Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3213-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT
February 16, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performnnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1.00      - Rp 625
Rp 100       - US$0.16
Rp 1 million - US$1,600
GLOSSARY
BP3K       -  Office of Educational and Cultural Research and Development,
Ministry of Education and Culture
CCD        -  Center for Curriculum Development of BP3K
GOI        -  Government of Indonesia
ICB        -  International Competitive Bidding
ITP        -  Integrated Textbook Project
LCB        -  Local Competitive Bidding
NEC        -  Ministry of Education and Culture
ODA        -  Official Development Assistance
PGI        -  Pusat Grafika Indonesia (Ministry of Education Graphic Arts
Training College)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:      The Integrated Textbook Project (ITP) under the Ministry
of Education and Culture
Amount:            $25 million
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% p.a.
Project
Description:    The objective of the project is to establish and strengthen
institutions to upgrade the content, physical standards,
and availability of textbooks for primary and secondary
education. The project would support: (a) the strengthen-
ing of the Integrated Textbook Project (ITP), to operate as
a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; (b) the strengthening of the Center
for Curriculum Development (CCD), to develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools; and (c) the
improvement of a national distribution system for all
textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
Specifically the project would develop or revise about 110
book titles, and deliver a total of 82 million textbooks in
mathematics, science and the English language. Over 30
million primary and secondary level pupils would benefit
from the improved textbooks.
The project has no significant risks, although some moderate
difficulty could be expected in attracting, motivating and
training qualified persons in management and technical
tasks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                            Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
Base Costs
Site development, buildings,
furniture and equipment              8.0       5.5      13.5
Professional services, including
curriculum and manuscript
development                         11.3       2.0      13.3
Paper /1                              28.0         -      28.0
Printing and Distribution             13.1      10.8      23.9
Technical Assistance                   0.5       0.8       1.3
Subtotal                        61.0      19.0      80.0
Contingencies
Physical                               6.1       1.9       8.0
Price                                 19.8       4.0      23.8
Total Cost /2                   87.0      25.0    112.0
Financing Plan:                                             Local   Foreign   Total
…- ($ million)    --
IBRD                                     -        25.0      25.0
Government                              87.0       -        87.0
Total                          87.0      25.0    112.0
Estimated           Bank FY          1982      1983    1984    1985    1986   1987
Disbursements:
Annual            0        1.5      5.5      9.0     6.5    2.5
Cumulative        0        1.5      7.0    16.0    22.5   25.0
Rate of Return      Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3560-IND, dated February 11, 1982.
/1 As paper procurement would be reserved, its entire cost, including the
foreign exchange element, is treated as local costs.
/2 Totals are rounded.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $25 million to help
finance a Second Textbook Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /1 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population density
exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population live, but
averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country; 80% of the
population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated to be $430./2
4.        The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base, with
plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber
potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production and
export. However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
prominence of the oil sector. Net oil -xports rose from $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
/1 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/2 Estimate for 1980.



for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As a
consequence the country's resource position has been highly sensitive to terms
of trade developments. Following the second oil price hike a resource deficit
turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and the current
account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades. In 1981/82
declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other commodities and
the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal of this position,
with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The effects of these
dramatic changes are still working their way through the system. However, the
infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has certainly contributed to a
highly favorable growth performance, despite weak production linkages between
the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A sustained growth rate of
almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher than that of any other
low-income country. While oil has played an important part, it should be
stressed that the initial impetus to this growth occurred in the period of
recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s. The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then maintain macro-
economic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incentives for
investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure,
and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout the period growth
has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per
annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing and construction.
However, despite this favorable growth performance, the economy is still
underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a
persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural/urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because



- 3 -
the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby encour-
aging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains inadequate, and only 12% of the population has access to safe
water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measure. First, there
is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infrastructure.
Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric power system
will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of the productive
sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by improvements in
the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive structure for
private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major economic
sectors.
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for both
employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.
GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade regime, with a view
to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in rates of effective
protection, and a strong push for the expansion of non-oil exports, including
financing arrangements, improved ports procedures, export processing



zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates).  However, the
private sector also suffers from significant domestic constraints to its
expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial system.
Further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to private
investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
10.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and mDre
efficient energy use.  In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by
over 60%. This was a decisive step toward the reduction of a major distor-
tion in the economy; it followed similar increase of about 40% in May 1980
and demonstrated the GOI's commitment to tackle this politically difficult
issue. However, domestic prices are still only about 55% of the opportunity
cost on average, and price relativities between products diverge widely from
those prevailing on the international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production and
employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate seeds
and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of
distribution and marketing.
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary school
leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and demand at
some levels. In the short run there is scope for better utilization of
existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while available foreign



exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships abroad and, in the
interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a strong justification for
the use of incremental resources in the health sector. However, increased
outlays on health infrastructure will have to be complemented by the develop-
ment of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems,
involving the participation of local communities. The successful family
planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
13.       The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI's expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; non-
oil taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in
revenues, suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource
mobilization, at a time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements.
The two major policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil
prices to reflect opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort. The
1982/83 budget represents a significant effort in these directions. First,
the budgetary subsidy on petroleum products has been reduced from an annual
level of over $3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic nonoil
tax revenues have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real terms, with
the major emphasis on improved administration and collection procedures.
14.       Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance (ODA), to the country.
However during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transforma-
tion in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on
official concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. The fact that
Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the
efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far
the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on
commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes
Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to price developments in international
markets. The implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent,
and that there will be a continued justification for official debt of long
maturities and fixed interest in the 1980s. Present projections suggest that
Indonesia-s financing requirements can be met with the debt service ratio
remaining below 20% throughout the decade.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI-s
new priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part 1, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the sub-
sector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Rural Roads
Development Project (No. P-3174-IND) circulated under cover of R81-324,
dated December 14, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on
January 12, 1982.



- 7 -
18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and
continued lending will concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
19.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to be
related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both mana-
gerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures.  The GOI and the Bank have also instituted
formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-
specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement
seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a
consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of the major causes
of implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as
a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million
in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is important that the Bank
and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging..
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.



-8-
21.       The proposed project constitutes the seventh lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway, Eleventh Power, Second Seeds, Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport and Rural Roads Development projects have already been approved by
the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Board documents for a proposed
Second Teacher Training project are being circulated to the Executive
Directors simultaneously with this proposal.   Projects under advanced stage
of preparation and appraisal include the Sixteenth Irrigation, East Java
Province irrigation, the National Fertilizer Distribution and Sixth Nucleus
Estates projects.
PART III - TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT
Background
22.       Indonesia has achieved considerable success in providing access to
education to its school-age population. By 1980 the country had achieved a
remarkable 92% enrollment ratio at the primary level, and ratios of 25% and
12% at the lower and upper secondary levels, respectively. In addition, the
national language, Bahasa Indonesia, had been established as the medium of
instruction at all levels. During the 1970s, more than 300 million textbooks,
teachers' manuals and library books were provided for primary schools and
65 million books were provided for secondary schools.
Issues
23.       Despite these achievements, Indonesia has serious problems in
human resource development. There are some 30 million illiterates aged 15
and over, most of whom are unemployed or underemployed. At the same time
Indonesia faces acute shortages of high-level manpower, particularly in the
scientific, technical and managerial fields. These shortages pose a
constraint to the country-s development. They are due to weaknesses in the
education system (low internal efficiency and low scholastic achievements)
caused by the rapid expansion in enrollment. Dropout and repeater rates are
high, and GOI is dissatisfied with the level of scholastic achievement,
particularly in the key subjects of mathematics, science and English. Related
to low achievement levels is the inadequacy of textbooks in terms of their
content, physical standards and availability.
Textbook Production
24.       While more than 300 million textbooks were distributed in the 1970s
under several textbook programs, including the Bank Group-assisted first
Textbook Project (Credit 387-IND), sufficient recognition was not given to
the complexity of the tasks involved in the textbook development process and
the amount of time needed to carry them out. Institutional weaknesses in
curriculum and manuscript development and in textbook production and
distribution have been identified by GOI as the causes of the deficiencies
in textbook content, physical standards and timely availability.



- 9 -
25.       Curriculum Development.  The poor quality of textbook content is
due to inadequate professional skills and procedures for curriculum and
manuscript development. Books have not taken the pupils level of vocabu-
lary into account; layout and illustrations have also been poor. Teacher
manuals have also been poorly designed and they have provided little
guidance to teachers.
26.       The Center for Curriculum Development (CCD) of the Office of
Educational and Cultural Research and Development (BP3K) in the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MEC) suffers from shortages of skilled staff. With
inadequate staff and resource materials, the CCD has been unable to provide
the expertise and continuity needed to carry out systematic curriculum
development and to ensure consistency between curriculum and textbooks.
Under the project the Center will be strengthened. It will carry out
intensive studies, make necessary adjustments in the primary and secondary
schools curricula, and develop better teaching methods for different
subject areas, to support textbook development. Science education would
receive special attention.
27.       Manuscript Development.  The textbook programs of the 1970s,
including Credit 387-IND, were largely designed to relieve the acute
shortage of books and were carried out by inexperienced staff who were
unable to handle all the tasks involved in textbook publishing. Further-
more, staff assignments to textbook projects were temporary, resulting in
lack of continuity, thus preventing buildup of professionalism or expertise.
The system for testing the books was inadequate. Writers rarely visited the
teaching sites and book production schedules were too tight to permit
required revisions.
28.       Procurement.  Inadequate quality control in the procurement of
paper and printing services has led to poor physical standards of books.
Staff involved in the procurement of paper were often insufficiently trained
and equipped to supervise bulk procurement and large consignments. Inven-
tory control was rudimentary, relative to the volume and value of paper
purchased and storage facilities were inadequate. Due to the lax super-
vision of printing contracts, printers at times subcontract to nonqualified
printers. Unauthorized printing or over-printing has also occurred.
Inferior printing quality is often the result. Moreover, quality control
from film processing for offset printing through binding has been minimal.
29.       Distribution System.  Despite the impressive quantitative per-
formance in textbook production in the mid-1970s, an inadequate distribution
system has resulted in the late arrival of books and the number of books
delivered did not always match local enrollment. Books were often damaged
or lost due to the shortage of storage facilities in the provinces. Also,
the system for monitoring book distribution is inadequate, and record
keeping needs to be improved and computerized. Provincial authorities are
uncertain as to which books are being sent from Jakarta and their arrival
schedules.



- 10 -
Government Strategy
30.       Having resolved many of the problems in providing adequate numbers
of books to the school system, MEC is now turning its attention to resolving
the deficiencies in book content, physical standards and availability to
pupils. To overcome these deficiencies, MEC's strategy emphasizes improve-
ments in curriculum and manuscript development, in procurement of paper and
printing services, and in the distribution of textbooks. These improvements
in turn are expected to help raise scholastic achievements and the internal
efficiency of primary and secondary schools.
31.       To help upgrade the quality of textbooks, MEC proposes to
strengthen CCD and link it more closely to textbook development. MEC has
also established a textbook publishing institution, the Integrated Textbook
Project (ITP) to undertake all aspects of textbook production, from writing
through editing, design, testing and promotion, to delivery. To ensure an
improved distribution system, MEC has completed an extensive survey of the
existing textbook distribution system.
32.       On the basis of school enrollment projections, during 1982/83
through 1984/85, MEC plans to produce and deliver 470 million textbooks and
teacher guides for primary and secondary schools. About 250 million, or
slightly more than 50% of these books, would be for the primary level.
GOI's program implies that MEC's outlay for textbooks for primary and
secondary education would increase from Rp 21 billion in 1979/80 (13% of its
development expenditure) to about Rp 80 billion in 1984/85 (16% of its
development expenditure).
Bank Group Assistance
33.       Since 1970 the Bank Group has extended nine loans and credits,
totaling nearly $230 million, to the education sector in Indonesia. These
projects support three main objectives: meeting manpower requirements,
improving quality and, more recently, increasing equity. Of particular
relevance to this present project is the Third Education Project (Credit
387-IND of 1973). Assisted by a credit of $13.5 million, the Third Project
is directed towards improving primary and secondary education through pro-
vision of textbooks and in-service teacher training. The project was
completed on December 31, 1981, having produced about 300 million textbooks.
In terms of the numbers of textbooks printed and distributed under this
first project, it was a considerable success. However, during its implemen-
tation deficiencies arose in the content, standards and availability of
books, which the proposed Second Textbook Project aims to address by build-
ing up a permanent capacity to improve quality as well as output. Together
with the proposed second teacher training project, it seeks to remedy the
present weaknesses in school efficiency and raise learning achievements in
primary and secondary education. It would also contribute towards greater
equity in educational opportunity as textbooks with an improved content will
be distributed free to all pupils.



- 11 -
34.       To date, two Project Performance Audit Reports have been prepared
on education projects in Indonesia. One (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980,
SecM80-440), reviews performance on the First Education Project (Cr. 219-
IND). This audit stressed the importance of including fellowships to train
teachers and school administrators, and the timely appointment of key staff
to project implementation units to ensure the success of the project. To
address these findings, this project provides for study tours and the early
appointment of key personnel. The second Project Performance Audit Report
(No. 3058, dated June 30, 1980, SecM80-527), reviews performance on the
Second Education Project (Cr. 288-IND), and describes the project as being
successfully implemented. The major audit finding of relevance is the need
for more advanced project preparation. The current project addresses this
issue, as it is based on extensive MEC studies in the subsector and on
experience derived during implementation of Credit 387-IND.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project is based on GOI's draft Project Preparation
of the Integrated Texbook Project (ITP) of the Ministry of Education and
Culture (April 1980). The project was prepared by GOI with the assistance
of UNESCO. It was preappraised in May/June 1980 and appraised in November/
December 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 25-
February 4, 1982 with the Indonesian delegation led by Mr. R. Haryoseputro,
Assistant to the Minister of Education and Culture. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 3560-IND) is being circulated separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
36.       The project would raise learning achievements in primary and
secondary education by assisting the GOI's textbook development program.  It
would build on the quantitative achievements of the first textbook project
and address the main issues of deficiencies in content, physical standards
and availability of textbooks that have arisen. The project would assist in
institution building in textbook publishing, distribution and curriculum
development by: (a) establishing ITP, as a permanent organization with
appropriate staff to plan and manage textbook development activities; (b)
introducing an improved national distribution system for texbooks; (c)
strengthening CCD to permit it to make necessary adjustments and improve
teaching methods in the primary and secondary schools; (d) developing about
110 revised or new book manuscripts in mathematics, science and English for
primary and secondary schools; (e) printing and distributing 82 million
textbooks based on the manuscripts developed; (f) constructing and equipping
one office building, one central warehouse for paper storage, 37 warehouses
and 250 depots for the book distribution system; and (g) training staff and
providing consultant services. The project would be implemented over a
five-and-a-half year period (1982/83-1986/87).



- 12 -
Project Description
37.       The Integrated Textbook Project (ITP), a newly constituted permanent
textbook publishing institution in MEC, would be responsible for management
and control of all textbook development from initial planning through writing,
testing, revision, manufacturing and quality control to distribution of books
to schools. When fully operational, ITP would have a staff of 150 profes-
sionals. It would develop or revise about 110 book titles and deliver a total
of 82 million textbooks in mathematics, science and English. The content of
these books would be improved through the hiring of professional staff and
adherence to a defined production cycle. The development cycle for new titles
would be four years, and the cycle for revisions, three. ITP staff would
provide editorial advice and services to authors and writers and an editor at
ITP would be responsible for the development of each set of textbooks.  The
editor would select writers and monitor the authors activities. Author teams
would generally consist of a curriculum expert, an experienced teacher and a
writer. Authors would generally not be staff members of ITP or CCD.
38.       Teacher guides would be devised under the project to assist teachers
in the use of new books. The manuscript development staff of ITP would brief
writers, teacher trainers and other specialists on the effective use of the
books in regular preservice and inservice courses run by the Directorate for
Primary and Secondary Education. GOI would ensure that testing of new titles
would be carried out during a full school year in a representative sample of
nine schools (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       The project would provide for the printing of 82 million textbooks
in mathematics, science and English over the period 1982/83-1985/86. This
represents 22% of the MEC's total textbook production program in these years.
Quantities are based on enrollment projections and reflect GOI policy to
provide each primary and secondary pupil with prescribed textbooks free of
charge. On average, books would last three years after delivery to schools.
GOI would ensure that ITP will not reproduce any book without first obtaining
the copyright (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Paper would be purchased by ITP and stored in its central warehouse
in Jakarta. To ensure that the paper meets minimum specifications, ITP would
contract paper testing services from the GOI s graphic arts training center,
Pusat Grafika Indonesia (PGI); equipment for this is financed under the
project. ITP staff would manage the procurement of printing services.
Private printers would print about 40% of project books and Balai Pustaka,
MEC's publisher/printer, would handle the balance. GOI would ensure that:
(a) an evaluation would be carried out to assess how the quality and cost of
printing and paper procured for the project affect the longevity of book use,
and that a copy of the evaluation would be submitted to the Bank for review
and comment by December 31, 1984; and (b) paper specifications are
satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.09 and 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
41.       Textbook Distribution System.  The project would strengthen the
existing textbook distribution system to ensure the timely arrival of books
and that schools receive sufficient books to match enrollments. The
distribution system would provide unified storage and distribution for all
textbooks for primary and secondary schools. It would also give provincial
education authorities increased control in the planning and implementation
of book deliveries. The 37 warehouses and 250 book depots to be constructed
under the project would receive, store and dispatch books, and provide a
reserve stock to cover unexpected wastage and offset shortfalls and
transportation damages.
42.       Monitoring, Evaluation and Studies.  Monitoring and evaluation
components, and studies to provide information for textbook policy planners
as well as authors, teachers and teacher trainers are also included under
the project.
43.       The Center for Curriculum Development (CCD) would be strengthened
under the project to enable it to: (a) conduct evaluation of, and make
necessary adjustments in, the curricula; (b) establish better linkages
between curriculum and book development; and (c) carry out studies for
improvement of design, content, language, physical standards and use of
textbooks. The 1975 curriculum which is presently being used throughout
Indonesia would be examined for its relevance to present requirements.
Organization and Management
44.       ITP, under MEC, would be responsible for project implementation.
Provincial education authorities would manage the warehouses and depots.
GOI would ensure that the professional staff of ITP would be appointed in
accordance with accepted schedules; functions and responsibilities of key
ITP staff would be acceptable to the Bank; and sufficient compensation would
be provided to hire and retain qualified ITP professional staff (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). For ITP to retain its stability of
function, and have the status and salary structure necessary to hire
well-qualified publishing personnel over the longer term, it will have to
become a permanent entity. This could be accomplished either by estab-
lishing it as an independent entity within MEC or integrating it into Balai
Pustaka. GOI would therefore complete a study by June 30, 1984, presenting
an action plan satisfactory to the Bank, which plan it would thereafter
implement, to integrate ITP with Balai Pustaka or establish it as an
independent entity under MEC (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Curriculum development would continue to be the responsibility of
CCD which would be expanded from 5 to 11 divisions and when in full opera-
tion would have 140 professional staff. GOI would appoint the professional
staff to CCD in accordance with an acceptable schedule and would complete a
study by June 30, 1984, on the future division of responsibilities between
ITP and CCD (Sections 3.06 and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
46.       A Coordinating Committee on Textbooks would establish long-term
manuscript development priorities, review program implementation, and ensure
synchronization between curriculum and textbook development. Its chairman
would be the Minister of Education or his designate.
47.       During the first two or three years of project implementation, while
construction is under way, a project architect would be assigned to ITP to
assist with civil works. A feasibility study on book distribution has been
conducted to provide the data required on location, size, number and cost of
warehouses and depots. GOI would acquire sites for the provincial warehouses
and depots in accordance with an acceptable schedule (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement). A local architectural firm has been selected to
design: (a) the joint ITP/CCD building and supervise its construction; (b) the
central warehouse; and (c) standard modules for regional warehouses and book
supply depots for the textbook distribution system. Local Public Works
Departments and/or local technical teaching staff would supervise warehouse
and depot construction.
48.       The project would be implemented over a five-and-a-half year period.
Physical facilities would be completed in four-and-a-half years. Final
payments on the last building work involved would be made half a year later to
cover the liability period for defects. Initial paper procurement would be
scheduled in 1982. Printing would begin in 1982/83, and distribution in
1983/84.  The closing date of the proposed loan would be June 30, 1987.
Technical Assistance and Training
49.       The project would include training programs for the staff of ITP and
CCD as follows: (a) 48 man-months of foreign study tours for ITP staff in
publishing; and (b) 6 man-months of foreign study tours for CCD staff in
curriculum development and research. It is planned that foreign consultant
services would be used as follows: (a) ITP - 3 man-years in manuscript
development and information management; (b) PGI - 3 man-years in reprography,
quality control and book production; and (c) CCD - 3.5 man-years for job
specific studies and technical support for ongoing activities in curriculum
development. GOI retains the option of using local consultants according to
availability of local expertise.
Cost Estimates and Financing
50.       Total project cost is estimated at $112 million, net of taxes, of
which 22% is foreign exchange. The foreign exchange estimates exclude the
cost of printing paper ($28 million), which has been treated as local expendi-
tures as it will be financed entirely by GOI. Physical contingencies repre-
sent 10%, and price contingencies 30% of base cost. Local price increases are
forecasted to be 14% for 1982, 12% for 1983, and 10% in subsequent years;



- 15 -
foreign price increases are forecasted to be 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85,
and 6% for subsequent years. Specialist services represent $1.7 million and
foreign fellowships $0.14 million (base costs). Foreign consultants unit
cost, including allowance for overhead, housing and travel averages $9,400 per
man-month and the unit cost for a three-month foreign study tour averages
$5,800 (base costs). Man-month costs of local experts, including salaries and
allowances, would average $1,300. The proposed loan of $25 million would
finance 100% of the project's foreign exchange cost, net of the cost of paper,
or 22% of total project cost (net of taxes). GOI would provide the remaining
$87 million (78% of total project cost).
Procurement
51.       Of the total project cost of $112 million equivalent, paper for
printing is estimated to account for about $40 million equivalent (with a base
cost of $28 million equivalent). This paper would be procured by GOI under
reserved procurement arrangements and would not, therefore, be eligible for
financing under the Bank loan. Project viability would not be impaired by the
estimated $12 million equivalent additional cost of obtaining the paper by
means of such reserved procurement arrangements (about 11% of the total
estimated project cost).
52.       Contracts for: (a) the construction of:  (i) the joint ITP/CCD
office building (base cost $2.5 million equivalent) and (ii) the central
paper warehouse ($2.4 million equivalent); and (b) the procurement of (i)
the ITP computer; (ii) CCD equipment (mainly for laboratories); (iii) fork-
lifts for the central paper warehouse; and (iv) paper testing equipment
(total base cost $0.7 million), would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
In the comparison of bids for equipment, local manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% over the c.i.f. cost of equipment, or
the existing customs duty, whichever is lower. Prior Bank review of pro-
curement documentation and contract award recommendations would be required
for all construction and equipment packages presented for ICB. Contracts
for: (a) the construction of all other building works, i.e. 287 regional
textbook warehouses and depots; (b) the procurement of all other equipment,
with the exception of library books; and (c) of all furniture needs; would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) under GOI
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Such bid packages would be too small to
attract foreign bidders. Library books would be purchased on the basis of
negotiated prices. Textbook printing would be awarded on the basis of
contracts with (a) private sector printers (for between 20% and 60% of total
annual book requirements) on the basis of LCB in accordance with GOI
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (b) Balai Pustaka (for the balance of
annual book needs). Contracts between MEC and Balai Pustaka would be based on
unit costs per book equivalent to the lowest competitive bid received from a



- 16 -
private printing firm during that fiscal year. Distribution contracts with
private firms would be awarded on the basis of LCB in accordance with GOI
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Tender and contract documents in standard
formats are being prepared for printing and distribution procurement.
Disbursement
53.       The disbursement schedule is representative of other education
projects in Indonesia. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 100%
of technical assistance, including professional architectural services (all
buildings); (b) for ITP computer, CCD equipment, forklifts and paper testing
equipment: 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported equipment and of
imported equipment procured locally, and 65X of local expenditure for items
procured locally; (c) 100l of the cost of civil works for the office building
and the central warehouse; and (d) 100% of the cost of printing. The dis-
bursement profile is more compressed than the standard profiles for education
projects in Indonesia for which lending was made earlier in the development
cycle. In addition, major disbursements against printing will occur within
the first three years of implementation.
Benefits
54.       The project, which is an integral component of the GOI's education
strategy, is designed to raise learning achievements and to ensure more
equitable distribution of educational opportunity by providing improved text-
books throughout Indonesia. It would build up the institutional, professional
skills and management capacity required to ensure the availability of improved
textbooks to primary and secondary schools. The 82 million textbooks to be
printed and delivered under the project would meet 22% of total textbook needs
at the primary and secondary levels.
Risks
55.       The content of books would not improve if qualified professional
staff could not be hired by ITP.  Recognized risks are:  (a) the difficulty in
attracting, motivating and training a sufficient number of qualified persons
to carry out the task of textbook development; and (b) ensuring the adequate
functioning of ITP and CCD, to attract and retain qualified staff into the GOI
textbook publishing program. These risks are reduced since ITP has already
been established and management staff appointed. Moreover, GOI is reviewing
remuneration and incentives required to hire and retain qualified staff. The
project also includes a program of training for ITP staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4



- 17 -
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. A special condition of the project is listed in
Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 16, 1982
Washington, D.C.






- 18 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GRWPS (WEIGHTED AVflRAGES
LTND AREA  (THOUSAND SS. RM.)                                                              - MIST RECET ESTIMATE) A
TOTAL   1919.3                                   MOST RECENT       LOW  INCClE         MIDDLE INCHE
AGRICULTURAL      286.4                   1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.0       140.0            370.0             232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           130.1       128.4            237.1             499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0          142870.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6        17.1             19.8              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5             74.4             153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         355.9        417.9            487.3             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7         44.0             40.8              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                              56.2         53.5             56.3              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.1          2.5              2.9               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.1          2.0              2.3               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                                   3.7          3.6              4.0               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          46.7         40.8             36.2              27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          24.8         17.7             13.3              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.0         2.8              2.3               2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2             27.1              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
lNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0        102.0            103.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        89.0         92.0            105.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               41.0         41.0             47.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             6.0          6.0              6.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          31.2         20.4             13.7              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         39.0         46.7             53.0              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               159.0        126.0            120.0              89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    *-          3.0             12.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                                    ..         10.0             35.0             65.8                    68.0
RURAL                                    ..          1.0              6.0              20.1                   34.4
ALCESb TU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         12.0             15.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                    ..         50.0             60.0             71.0                    71.0
RURAL                                    ..          4.0              5.0              4.8                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5          13644.4           3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..       7672.8           8851.9           6411.8                  2229.7
POJPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1364.1       1644.6           1606.0           1132.8                   588.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..           697.3             322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..          3159.0            5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..             22.4
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4          4.8
URBAN                                   4.9          5.3
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
ToTAL                                    ..          1.5
URBAN                                    ..          1.6
RURAL                                    *-          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINUS)
TOTAL                                     ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..



- 19 -                                            ANNB I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GOUPS (WEIGHTED AV ERACS
- MOST DRCT   STIW.TE
MOST RECENT      LOW INCCE           MIDDLE INCOKE
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA 4 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0             22.0             38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                      10.0         21.0            27.0              34.67i                 58.4
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              is.or7                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)       20.0         22.0             20.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                39.0         29.0             30.0              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.0             17.0              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.0         2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              7.3               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..          ..             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..          ..              0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.9         31.0             29.5              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8        66.3             59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.4          9.7             11.8             14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7         35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                     54.2         49.5             50.1              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             21.1              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        33.7/c           23.5
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..        52. 07           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         6.87             6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        17.37c           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0               ..                   249.8
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             51.0              51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
ib   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



- 20 -ANEI
Page 3 of 5
DiLEFtINITIN OF SOCIAl. INDICATORS
Notes;  Al though  -n  dat  -c  drawnI fr. sour.es geheeil  fudged themos aubnti sd reliable.  it shoud also  be notd than  they say not be twe..e-
Tht r     .f..rc   gro.peot .. .             ..eas .conty gr-p of rue  -bj-rt  -toui   o   2    tutygopot   oeeanbge   vrg                            iet         h   oot   ru
of,heu IIntl  -   fliy   euptInn'Cptlhr IIllI.onnr.  grou  wher  "Midl   ntone- Mirthhfrr -,Id Middle feetis ro-  becaus  if _c_ge
onirdicu rao    I..e....gttheno-ttccadrefnitri. groups-
Tfinl - Toa7-     reo.ae                    I-picn    ad area and inlaid asenPra,adrrl. arddh   he   epcir    oiri                                                          itlbd
frcospatre.  ern   r  Aitchor g.nder-  cir   lit fulo.7I                 dt                hah   It_to      canr. tosptfalssreenhlfsImh-,    _eennIf etff
hr an teet  -a  ph,ipsiri-   fEtablIsh-ens   priding pntntiliynsto--
CISP Itt CAPIlA  (ll-IN? yt  cyca  e imtsa   orr   aksPr,Ime-clha.ataeItcibe -ditural r- ttale,1ho-sne,  lotsehealth
colIted by es              J..erl    erii   sgoi    akAta    fl-P    el)  1Wt.                         an  sde  rnes             Ionpe-,,eel  staffed by a physt~i.ta  (but by 
ERGY CONS1ilijTI.N PER                                                                                               h~~~~~dnfnen  pondsa  ittd  ane  t  eice    ffrtlitues    Po   ete
data-                                                                                                'dtatsPe    orssld- Tnnal tote   of adeilesan   o  rdicar
POPU-TION AN, V,j~~~~~~  ..........                                            fl.-~Pro  hospitlsl  dissded by the  -ttb-t a  beds.
Totl   iruotor.Mi-Sar   tcouona    A- Au  f Ju1y I. I960.  I9i0,  end 1979            Hfuitft
difteear   rf ilrlon   ci  rharurrasway  ft -p c ...uraily it  i  data                 and  beIr suit -aste.  A brander. orioe   a  a   a   w   e  si dI
usig cuntiew   160,1)7,  oc 179dec                                                        the hosehol   fnr s-tYetcelbtuiases
lotuatit  Prooctuns                                                       neree nuber  f teeh,        ret, tim-_     ri                           reeg  a
Poultlr  nrer  il     Crrntppuacrnic1rc tn  ae  asdcalOO                i  o  pr.r  9r  oo   a  llace, afrua  ntule   onsetoa
ino    iulro   y  g   i   taadicaiaraun   n   eit  r   ats             ailoa    ePntiey-Itl  ag   ald   a-ssestsrtu                                   e
Prdili    aestr  nrnnaiyawcarhenrrdlniaso-aocp                                                             at
in  P,aoyrenya   Ithiiesn   nt.onr -sprspneicsI_net  I_rntfecn   f  eeiws  -tni   ren   sfma 
mii   aditwclitrnetwu    ta: llga    11  ets                     hepo-                      aasttwo   nniig   ih  litiit tditg   urtr sJ.ceng
ftatioilr    --dlaiur-~ in-o scat       l honar       .iy lto   thrni-u   rot  share                    .tala erbonl - . natal sal  ad   fsee- lte otl  sf  sdfet
"""hYrtretecs-e-ltnnhda-ethrhtn    inool-bteagianrctirert                                         sarlecoulgsatapimrinla    ecntgefseetn
wait  icenat -Til  inacti,rr   ony airnterllir   coes   erlrer           d near E ibrol-megt ptoonaiacnrel    nids                       ida   gd6i
tArraluewrt  yn   c  cn  m   rprdutin   rte  shwreah  anrenPr  yar  hut  aduse   foGdI.re..lngh    ofprtyaoatan   fo
ohinnrtiee    ei    nc1.trsttoaypplti    iewscunre   ntuieelauehrsaoletsyere   i    ere
annn locel                                                                eduratbon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ require  at. leastI fotyasi6prnd   rmr   stut
wIoho   eeia  eqtd                                                                            csaiiof1hrol ydr  ist;itr-redareid                           he.re   setll
iciouat inn hesslic                  rf-luieO-
trilaln  Ay    tute 0    Ir- rcant I -   ihlrn(-IfA-i   yer:-oiigasIl-piaywdarnan  oeed15   yns e da                                                                  b-oter  ha th
ci   ar1.er  rtied96  yarnai  nilatctuocaesni  ioyerd.r..oras  ning q.lerfsla
lo-1r fc; '195160.  9ti70        an 1 1970I dlsege.an  rnthuad  ucs ton) -. Ihweesauge-  careh np ise sonar
-1pluho; 196   A,  dOll,I and117 dora-                                                              Ent trery- dny-ehi1nfeew.l.l.   I
Crd  Athitg  rne tuad   Athldjoann (0nn neirowrd   c -kid-.  1-yr0d    rerr     r thuend nrmt dion)db -bAl  e   cf ...acrer fIr twh                                                 t
pouutn.   ir  19 10, yan  IOn  -dor-brecidc  eealptn  prtraado  ppcti                                                                                                   rcoe   n
nilnynree; uuoly frs-ea  aurgasOti   1A   Ot   r   99                                        Ictciunrnhshctte    inn   Ltnt-                   .l.(1,.              .d   i.
iascirylrnin-Acnctci, unuol(n-uatdn-urnuanurhocc.   f  atcrpdtirt.    dl   PP..f. Bhstrneirhuerrn)atn-h    aeor   locridow-rc
Phyf A-l1 1ihibll,htine,-Iuadly  if-hr epJehr Itlat  rn_usatk
i       1d960 idtudcco  cot0 Iud n d1t979  llc ddoeaino-cptucra                               cas  tnuaY  ur-dhi,         ernos  a    ee-usdn  tershro
eccdcric  of  ll  ind   ifn A..o.  trludnclon peucud    ree.   ad.. t  enddi cen  ild  'cin   c-dao.tiudnaeieAll                                        ]nI.....u...easf
brtednnua_ ntccha-rodi..leandccri-nuhre-nAr-    eillh..I lnitt-ia-u-rho                                                                              ..   h.    e-I-- f  .i
rhnn,   ruonat  yrpod-ci-  p-uca sif  b thi.1h-A,97,wd99Asa                                         oe 1Labor Icc  (husne              icnoi   y          -nca  fbie.- fucl. cdin
?scapuonurioiclnreaprrrntcIcenirrene)-omirtini                           atednrneonunapiredutnrldtnhnseane..ndets,ec-
orrg   coiwlntciir   (clw,plianilll   .ccrty   orcaiR ecerivgpeur.                           n  fal  gn    OiTVfln -it.nor hiu  Iociratar
.n ecl day. 1iw l-hrwer-dlet cowpruw  Icnri   rdtu  -nrr un                                          o      crpabll. 1900  1970 and  979 dora
trduorhofld  boI d-        -5.170   n            _1917 dana                                          19-1nd197  dte
u I            _d-u   c   I  ce    piml-   pirre-  pe1 dyan 11rasn65nw    n 1960.19791970,'2 ord197  dta    Tese  -e ase  cifAtprnc1ata  en
pulr pccrr.  i ouc  cctur   thd   t  a,ual pcntc..thea  tai-                   cnlerltegesrennctcre   f tellpuerIn.dtdda1  it
tcrlycodurno, 191-_, lSldon        _OlOaa.                                                                                    f necncddicclc
niAIo    rianadpu--I  iaaccdy -9d-h,   IT  and  1971 dana                                    IbCAMI l.d.tl.....
Chid daes.zjflrtact  hate p-                I.....rd9     hnui  orh   i   itout-- nd  ur      yrncotto-ecicn.t  d           b-iI      u  cart and f cpiac-    -   Arc IcedIn  nttu
trindru   erno   fralid    Ithr;10,11 ph          rd A lO -dat. f-    l-orsefl hildae-   I-                                    -     b,           16,17    d17   ..
-i      ,.A      -lh    -iePi cthifteI                                                                                              I_ d      l ftS.....191011                  e
ordhuith   iOt. 1b1-an  191  -at                                                                     ad 1-ul.hr....ren-d n- -ccsdset-ieieattnr.                      .II        "
hercfccpielrral,   risr,edrurulairrraw-naieacc--ccee P"ffirdabir."fi.
Iris 1fd   ,le,1 prcicd      pchlw,f fprogd   waf-d tttay wlnantre_laie    ornyrcalreinr-aidr aretpriia
_fhlre1rtn    nrioit - YInaruntar tied  0 pohl t,ilY
Idttltnutidnilcardcr            huro    110 serec          ircIooe   aur-                     yearltoef - ecornn1 y    lr1banPIe-rfadehof                     frntbsur
Ifriusodu    hignlchcrneo-orIhlloocconaltha-totar..I  rura  arean II-rr60w170tdf                                197tw dntictld    -nnw     bflidc-wILuI', panraa.I
on -ccc h -ic   . c  h- .linc 'S in-cr                                                                        elef c,cel    nc.lrZti   cm
'-cal Ic - n oat cc                         ..cr    -d 2   gl.-
if  tau Itw  etc_   ciclotcOd                 nircc-  -     -pcal y f-in duI
rt  ci-occuon  and-l  -dinoa   ocr.-ci -r corc-  trtte,c  , ci icean           97   --          IC~    ITR
onC.t-.a.                                                          hwrrScoyen  crasccicnus  cwo-fontanSnattlnec
,orcrnr      -L)eln 1-                                                                                                                tu_rha...daldcain  ai  tcclcIInr...paideI-
Idirgl..orcn  l'yncrt  youoc  dlh ad bye gu-he  cl otbd,tcts                                                                                                  aco
clans ju-dd-i-d fies  lrdrif  oIcbl-  at 1960 ce19e-   l9oct-1 
Porulur ot nor trwint bact  - Pouluc ic  dir udo  by ouser ol crctin lo
saE~lradel       lsrdanPnuo   cutlacuaT.n   atnrnnTe



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
-21 -
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                   Annual growth rate (X)
(million US$ at                              (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                         Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979            1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2       5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                   15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                   21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4       1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1           7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national savings             17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1          7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                            166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85          1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4          7.5         7.3          7.5
Agriculture                  54      47      32      26     22      17          2.7          4.1          4.1         3.5          3.5
Industry                     14      18      34     42      44      46          5.2         12.0         9.7          9.0         9.0
Services                     32      35      35     33      36      36          4.8          9.7          9.0         8.5         7.5
Consumptton                  91      89      79      70     74      74          4.1          8.4          8.9         8.6         7.6
Gross investment              8      14      20     22      26      27          4.8         18.3        11.7         12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23     31      23      18          3.6          9.2         8.7          3.7         3.2
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2         22.1        14.0          8.7         4.9
Gross national savings        8       9      17     25      25      22          6.1         23.1        14.4          4.8         7.3
As X of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980
PUJBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7            10.1            10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0             8.4             9.3                13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                  -2.3            +1.6           +7.1                +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0            10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5             3.7                 3.4
1960-70         1970-75              1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              7.3              7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                 2.9             16.0                15.0             11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.1              3.4              3.8
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
7i Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



ANNEX I
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                                Page 5 of 5 pages
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)                                  22 -
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                  Estimate                        Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,373    24,528   30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)                7,354     7,374   11,323   16,661    17,980    18,836   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                           3,907     3,979     6,171      5,584     4,393      5,692     7,239      8,964    10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                      -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,606  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil imports                  -7,241   -7,543   -9,021  -11,790  -14,5n9   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                         -536      -586      -659       -975      -968    -1,100   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                         175      -140    3,459      3,996      -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,010   -,1397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                         -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203            -732   -1,247   -1,529   -1,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt              -441      -514      -772       -824   -1,012      -1,226   -,1520   -1,810   -2,119   -3,882
(h)  Other (net)                       -424      -501      -489       -381      -191        494        273       281       151      -548
5.  Capital grants                            66        46        52        76         67        100       100       100        100       100
6.  Balance on current account              -624   -1,109      2,198     2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,439   -3,265   -9,280
7.  Direct foreign investment                285       271       217       140        178        200       350       450        600    1,000
8. Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956     2,205    1,865    2,612        3,976      4,120    4,777      5,548    6,063       9,695
(b)  Amortization                      -825   -1,548   -1,329         -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursements                1,131       657        536    1,660      2,808      2,812     3,284      3,829    4,080    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                     -140       891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418            500       800    1,000         700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)         -651      -708   -1,690   -2,736          330    -1,313   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115            188
11.  Net official reserves                  2,208     2,916    4,606      7,342     7,012       8,325    9,834    11,674    13,789   17,543
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                         3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9        5.6        5.7       9.5       5.5        5.9       4.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system  /d                                 -          -    6,906   10,787   10,357        11,670   13,17q   15,019   17,634   22,388
Total reserves in months of nonotl
imports + NFS                            3.4        4.3       8.6      10.1       8.3        8.0       7.4        7.0       7.9       5.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT lb
Gross Disbursements                      1,956      2,205    1,865    2,612
Concessional Loans                          442       4         433       732
Bilateral                                381       448        399       684
bDA                                       49         29        30        42
Other                                      12         6         5         6
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514      1,721     1,432     1,880
Official export credits                  218    --1            61 6
IBRD                                     191       168        199       331
Other multilateral                         16        12        46        52
Private - source                       1,089     1,270    1,126       1,453
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding 6 disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,940
Official - source                    7,077     8,390     8,434     9,442
Private  - source                    4,583    4,717    4,799       5,497
Undisbursed debt                       4,475    5,839      7,932      8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062       2,101     1,777
Interest                               441       514       771       824
Payments as % exports /e                11.6       18.2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(1)                                      6.3       7.6        6.6       8.1
Official - source                         5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0
Private  - source                         8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.9      18.7       19.1      18.9
Official - source                       23.9       30.1      25.8      24.8
Private  - source                       10.4       8.6       11.1      10.0
As 7. of debt outstanding at end of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                    30.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                   64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                    4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7h  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
Ic  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7d  At end of period.                                                                                       East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                             January 20, 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed            357.0   453.30        -
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.00               16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                    0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00               10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                    8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00               11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00                1.06



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00             37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00              8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00             12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00             41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00             12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50             14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00              8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00             37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00              52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00            123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00             22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                 62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00             59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00             39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00             44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00             37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00             107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00             26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00            139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00             34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III          99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00            111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV           42.00             39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                  35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                   35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00             240.22
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project              46.00             45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project             45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00             250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                  22.00             22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project           43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00                106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1                85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.65
Total                                        3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                        3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                            2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism              11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics          0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                  Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                -      1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                Textiles             0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera        Capital Market       4.0      1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           class Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0      53.0
Total gross commitments                          114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled               74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                 40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   53.1         0.9       54.0



~ 27 _                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                         9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                    14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                       16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                              18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                            24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                 28
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-28-                           ANNEX II
page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha.  About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOIs decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for furt.her Bdnk consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations.  Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study.  Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



- 31                          ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production.  Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



- 32-                       ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats ope-ating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families.  In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation.  It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                     Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



u4.1'd4A 11
- 36 -                         Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



- 37 -                       ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule. The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827  Rural Credit:  $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards s-stem is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



- 40-                        ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule. Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



-41-                             ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by MIarch 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



- 42 -                       ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI's budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



- 43 -                      ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP-s financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



-44 -ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



- 45 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



- 46 -                         ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed.  Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon.  The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



- 48 -                     ANNEX II
Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost.  Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
- 49 -             Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1 81; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI-s basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
-    -                    Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



- 51 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    Two years
(b)  Project prepared by:                     The Ministry of Education
and Culture assisted by
UNESCO
(c)  First presented to the Bank:             April 1980
(d)  Departure of Preappraisal Mission:    May 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:              February 1982
(f)  Planned effectiveness:                   May 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Condition
GOI would provide sufficient compensation to attract and retain
qualified ITP professional staff (para. 44).



