Document of          ~CIR'CUL TG CO,?y
The World Bank            TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1835--ECT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
TEXTILE PROJECT
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipieots only In the performance of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                        US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                                  LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                       US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                                 LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                       US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                                 LE 0.'4
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                       US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                                 LE 0.68
ABBREVIATIONS
KED     -    Misr Kafr El Dawar Spinning and Weaving Company
EB      -    Misr El Beida Dyers
EGOSW   -    Egyptian General Organization for Spinning and Weaving
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INrERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A TEXTILE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$52 million to help fi-
nance a part of the foreign exchange costs of a Textile Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest of
8.85 percent per annum. Out of the proceeds of the proposed loan, $50.7 mil-
lion would be onlent to the Misr Kafr El Dawar Spinning and Weaving (KED) and
Misr El Beida Dyers (EB) Companies at an interest rate of 10 percent per an-
num for a term of 15 years including 4 years grace. The foreign exchange
risk wuald be borne by the companies. The Arab Fund for Social and Economic
Development is also expected to participate in the financing of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating mission visited Egypt in January/February 1976, and its findings are
incorporated in this report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        The 1974 "October Paper," presented by President Sadat to the people
and the Parliament and approved in a national referendum, continues to provide
the basic principles which guide Egyptian development. These envisage decen-
tralization of decision-making of state-owned enterprises, liberalization of
the private sector, incentives to stimulate and encourage private foreign in-
vestment and expanded economic cooperation with Arab countries. Accordingly,
in 1974 and 1975, Egypt initiated a number of steps in furtherance of these
principles, which are expected to lead to a significant restructuring of the
economy. In particular, steps were taken to remove some of the heavy restric-
tions on private business activities, to encourage foreign private investment
and to expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate. It
should be noted, moreover, that this policy of economic liberalization was
pursued in a generally unfavorable international political and economic envi-
rornment.
4.        The present Government, formed in April 1975 and reconstituted in
March 1976, has reaffirmed its intention to maintain the momentum towards a
more self-reliant, equitable and liberalized economy, and for that purpose to
implement a wide-ranging economic management program. In particular, the Gov-
ernment has initiated or intends to take measures: (i) to improve coordina-
tion in economic policy making; (ii) to improve public sector efficiency
1/   Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report for the
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



through decentralization and rehabilitation; (iii) to rationalize consumption
subsidies and to increase national savings, while protecting the real income
of lower income groups, through appropriate price, fiscal and monetary poli-
cies; (iv) to promote efficiency in resource allocation through widening the
parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing price policies that would better
reflect economic scarcities; and (v) to rationalize its external debt situa-
tion and implement a debt-management program. The implementation of these
policy objectives, in conjunction with the substantial inflow of foreign aid
obtained in 1975 and expected in 1976 (paragraphs 16 and 17), revenues from
the Suez Canal (opened on June 5, 1975), revitalized economic activity in the
Canal Zone and rapidly rising oil income, should lead to a considerable
strengthening of the Egyptian economy in the coming years.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Egypt's economy entered 1976 still bearing the marks of war and of a
decade of under-investment requiring substantial rebuilding and rehabilitation.
In 1974 and 1975 Egypt's economy was dominated by pressures that originated in
the external sector but spilled over into the rest of the economy. On the ex-
ternal side, these included the slow progress towards peace in the Middle East;
the steep rise in the prices of Egypt's main imports; the recession in the in-
dustrialized countries; and the slow disbursement of concessional assistance
and private external capital. On the domestic side, the escalation in the
world prices of food led to an almost threefold increase in the net budgetary
subsidies on items of mass consumption, as the Government attempted to maintain
domestic prices of imported foodstuffs. Pent-up demand led to a rise in the
level of consumption and, combined with world inflation, led to a marked rise
in the general level of prices.
6.        The deficit in the balance of payments in 1974 was largely met by
the use of short-term bank credit facilities, which reached a level of LE
1,055 million ($2.7 billion) 1/ at the end of 1974. The debt structure
worsened and the short maturity period of the bank credit facilities created
problems of liquidity. The heavy subsidization of items of mass consumption,
together with the slow growth of tax revenues, squeezed public sector savings
and increased the Government's borrowings from the banking system. This re-
sulted in a 29 percent increase in money and quasi-money in a year when out-
put in real terms is estimated to have increased only by about 4 percent.
Almost inevitably, inflation continued at a high rate. Thus, the Egyptian
economy entered 1975 in a very vulnerable state, with both external and
domestic resources fully stretched.
7.        In 1975, the Government made efforts to prevent a major expansion
in the use of bank credit facilities. It also sought to obtain long-term
loans from Arab countries in order to "refinance" the bank credit facilities.
These efforts succeeded in raising LE 672 million ($1.72 billion) during 1975
on concessionary terms from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar
and a start was made towards reducing the level of outstanding bank credit
1/ Including undisbursed amounts.



-3-
facilities (see paragraph 21 below).    However, the net cost-of-living subsi-
dies in 1975 were budgeted at LE 493 million ($1.26 billion) -- an increase
of almost 50 percent above the actual figure for the previous year. Public
sector savings -- and hence, because of its size, total domestic savings --
for 1975 remained low.
8.        Production and Investment.    Economic growth In 1974 is estimated
at about 4 percent in real terms, with industry (largely because of greater
utilization of capacity) and services (including construction and tourism)
being the leading growth sectors. Investment expenditures increased from
LE 470 million in 1973 (which was only marginally above the 1965/66 level) to
LE 740 million in 1974 (in current prices), which is about 20 percent of GDP,
and represents an increase of about 40 percent in real terms. The 1975 Plan
envisaged gross fixed investment of LE 1154 million, of which LE 1056 million
were in the public sector. The 1975 Plan had the following priorities: (i)
reconstruction in the Suez Canal area (mainly in housing and related infra-
structure); (ii) completion of ongoing projects; (iii) replacement, renewal,
and better utilization of idle capacity; and (iv) new projects considered
essential for economic development, such as for producing fertilizers and
cement. The Plan also proposed tripling investment in the private sector to
LE 98 million, almost all of which will be in service activities and commodi-
ties production. Preliminary estimates indicate that the real growth of GDP
in 1975 is likely to have been around 4 percent, while investment may have
reached about 70 percent of the target.
9.        Prices.   Despite subsidies and price controls over a wide range of
commodities, inflation has continued at a high rate: the Consumer Price Index
for urban population increased by 10 percent in 1974, with the food and bever-
ages sub-index registering a rise of 15 percent. Price increases in 1975 are
likely to be of the same order of magnitude. It is likely that these figures
substantially understate the real level of inflation in the economy, as they
are based on controlled prices.
10.        The Domestic Budget.   Preliminary budget figures for 1974 show a
rise in the deficit to LE 653 million ($1.7 billion) compared with LE 386
million ($990 million) in 1973, largely because of a 270 percent increase in
the cost of living subsidies (to LE 330 million-$845 million) 1/, while cur-
rent revenues increased by about 12 percent to LE 1,143 million ($2.9 billion).
The 1975 budget projected a deficit of LE 925 million ($2.4 billion), despite
an estimated 35 percent increase in current revenues (arising principally from
a doubling of revenues from customs duties, including collection of arrears).
Direct bank financing of the budget deficit is projected at LE 125 million, but
in fact total lending by the banking sector to the Government will greatly ex-
ceed this level. Preliminary figures for the first half of 1975 indicate that
both current revenues and expenditures were in line with budgeted amounts,
although, on the revenue side, continuing substantial arrears in import duties
were offset by a higher-than-projected growth of other taxes.
1/   Almost entirely due to the increase in international prices of imported
foodstuffs (largely flour, maize, sugar and edible oils).



- 4 -
11.       Balance of Payments.   Egypt's deficit on its trade and services
account amounted to LE 619 million ($1,584 million) in 1974 (more than twice
that experienced in 1973). Egypt's balance of payments difficulties were
further compounded by a slow disbursement of medium- and long-term loans
committed during 1973 and 1974 and a high level of debt repayments of LE 255
million ($654 million) in 1974; this resulted in a net outflow of LE 52 mil-
lion ($132 million) on official medium- and long-term capital. Substantially
increased Arab grants of LE 475 million ($1,217 million) in 1974 helped to
reduce the current deficit but the overall deficit on the current and the
medium- and long-term capital accounts nevertheless amounted to LE 199 million
($511 million), which was met by the use of bank credit facilities.
12.       Estimates of Egypt's balance of trade and services in 1975 indicate
a deficit of about LE 965 million ($2.5 billion). Repayments of about LE 270
million ($690 million) had to be made during the year on outstanding inter-
national obligations (excluding banking facilities). The resulting deficit
(of about LE 1,235 million -- about $3.16 billion) was financed largely through
Arab grants, commodity loans, project loans, suppliers' credits and "rolling
over" of banking facilities (see paragraph 22).
13.       Since September 1973 a feature of Egypt's trade and exchange rate
regime has been a "parallel market" for certain transactions in foreign ex-
change (tourism, non-traditional exports, and private sector current imports),
for which a devalued rate (originally about LE 1 = $1.70) of the Egyptian pound
is applied. During 1974, this market was expanded by the introduction of the
"own exchange imports scheme," whereby Egyptians holding foreign exchange ab-
road were permitted to use their balances to import commodities from a list of
about 300 items. In November 1975, the own exchange imports scheme was ex-
panded to cover almost all private imports. The scope of the parallel market
was widened in January 1976 to cover ten percent of all official imports
except supply commodities. The parallel market rate was adjusted in February
1976 to LE 1 = $1.56, and in May 1976 to LE = $1.47.
Development Prospects
14.       Despite the current economic difficulties, Egypt's economic poten-
tial over the long run is promising. The reasons for this assessment are in
brief: (i) the country has a large market, a skilled population, low wages,
varied raw materials, and a key geographical location, which makes it a
natural base for industries that wish to supply the domestic market and the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to rise to
a level of around LE 300 million ($770 million) per year by 1980, and may
increase further as a result of physical expansion and greater usage of the
Canal; (iii) Egypt's improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by
the oil companies) at one million barrels a day by 1980-82; (iv) considerably
increased earnings from tourism which reached an estimated $225 million in
1975; (v) a more intensive utilization of agricultural land, with greater
emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an increased flow of remittances
(estimated at about $250 million in 1975) from Egyptians working in the
richer Arab countries of the region.



15.       However, the realization of the long-term potential hinges upon a
number of conplex factors, some of which are not within Egypt's control. The
most important of these is a definite movement towards an equitable and per-
manent peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, the attainment of
Egypt's prospects requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from
abroad; this, in turn, must be preceded by a considerable amount of work on
preparing a suitable portfolio of projects for the consideration of potential
investors (whether private or official). And finally, it requires fundamental
changes in economic policies and institutions. Hence, a realistic estimate
of the time required to achieve a significant restructuring of the economy
would be of the order of at least 5-10 years.
External Assistance
16.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960s. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased:
the gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 percent
immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows from Western countries averaged only $10-12 million (LE 4-5
million) annually in medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period
FY 1968-1972; amortization payments were some $7 million (LE 3 million)
greater than disbursements in 1973. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries (estimated in excess of $1,200 million - LE 470
million) financed the bulk of Egypt's development. These inflows, however,
declined significantly in 1974 and new commitments in that year dropped to a
relatively low level of $76 million (LE 30 million). On the aggregate, slow
disbursements of medium- and long-term aid resulted in a net outflow on this
account (to both Eastern and Western bloc countries) increasing to about $132
milion (LE 52 million) in 1974. Drawings on suppliers' credits exceeded
repayments by about $21 million (LE 8 million); disbursements on other medium-
and long-term loans amounted to about $249 million (LE 97 million) while re-
payments of such loans amounted to $402 million (LE 157 million). In addition,
interest payments (mainly on bank credit facilities) amounted to about $156
million (LE 61 million).
17.       Substantial Arab aid was received in recent years.    Aid received
from Arab countries in 1974 amounted to $1,217 million (LE 475 million) and
financed about 36 percent of Egypt's imports. Of this, $996 million (LE 389
million) was received in convertible foreign exchange while the rest was in the
form of petroleum grants. A major development during the year was the renewal
of substantial aid commitments, estimated at about $205 million (LE 80 million),
from Western countries. In fact, following the approval of the Bank loan and
IDA credit for the first Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project in December
1974, sizeable program assistance was obtained by Egypt from the US, Iran,
Germany, and Japan, enabling these sectors further to increase their output and
capacity utilization. In 1975 aid commitments totalled about $3.26 billion
(see para 21 below). For FY76, the US Government has requested Congressional
approval for economic assistance at a level of some $700 million, part of
which is expected to be in the form of commodity aid. Grants from Arab coun-
tries which reached about $1 billion in 1973 and 1974 are expected to con-
tinue, perhaps at a somewhat lower level. Aid from the other OECD countries,



especially France, Germany, UK and Japan, is expected to remain at the in-
creased level of 1974/75; the European Community is also supplying agricul-
tural commodities (including one million tons of wheat) during 1975/76. The
creation of a fund by four Arab oil producing countries to participate in
financing Egypt's development program has been announced recently.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Egypt's external debt profile worsened in 1974 almost entirely as a
result of its borrowing short-term funds at high rates of interest (in the
form of bank credit facilities). Bank credit facilities (including undis-
bursed) amounted to $2.7 billion (LE 1055 million) at the end of 1974, com-
pared with about $1,127 million (LE 440 million) at the end of 1973. Out-
standing debt to correspondent banks overseas (i.e., disbursed amounts or
letters of credit encashed by these institutions) amounted to $1,082 million
(LE 423 million) compared with $499 million (LE 195 million) at the end of
1973. The use of this type of financing created serious external liquidity
problems for Egypt in 1975, during which $2,190 million (LE 855 million) of
repayments (including interest payments of LE 75 million-$192 million) on
these credits had to be made.
19.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1974, was estimated at $2,760 million 1/
(LE 1,078 million), i.e., roughly the same level as the previous year. The
composition of this debt changed, however, with medium- and long-term govern-
ment debt increasing slightly to $1,769 million (LE 691 million) and amounts
owed as suppliers' credits and balance of bilateral accounts showing signif-
icant declines to $474 million and $417 million (LE 185 million and LE 163
million), respectively. In addition, $100 million (LE 39 million) of medium-
term debt was contracted from financial ihstitutions. At end 1974, the USSR
was Egypt's principal creditor, followed in importance by Germany, Kuwait, the
United States, Australia and Italy. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 1 percent
of the total. Of the reported external public debt at end 1974, about 31
percent was due to be repaid within two years, 40 percent within three years,
and 46 percent within four years. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt
was estimated to amount to about $710 million in 1974, indicating a debt-
service ratio of 32 percent. No reliable estimates of military debt are
available, but it is understood that Egypt is seeking a rescheduling of
service payments on such debt.
20.       During 1975, the Egyptian authorities embarked upon a four-pronged
strategy to place the country's external accounts on a sound basis. The first
step was to stop outstanding foreign bank credit to Egypt from spiralling even
higher (and worsening the liquidity position) by placing a "one-to-one" limit
on the use of banking facilities. Thus the amount of new letters of credit
opened against bankers' facilities in any given period could not exceed the
amount of cash repayments made on such facilities falling due in that'period.
Simultaneously, the Egyptian Government sought the aid of Arab and other states
1/   Excluding about $600 million in long-term foreign exchange deposits.



-7-
for substantial medium- and long-term loans on concessionary terms which would
constitute a "fund" to be held in the Central Bank to meet further payments due
on bankers' facilities. Third, medium- and long-term aid was sought from
Western countries and Japan in a quick-disbursing form (such as program loans
and commodity assistance) in order to finance Egypt's essential imports.
Finally, discussions were resumed with the Soviet Union for a rescheduling of
debt service payments.
21.       The Government's efforts to mobilize external assistance met with
considerable success in 1975. Long-term loans, at concessionary terms, total-
ling $1,720 million (LE 672 million -- $600 million from Kuwait, $600 million
from Saudi Arabia, $320 million from Iran, $150 million from Abu Dhabi and
$50 million from Qatar) were received in 1975. In addition, Arab countries,
Arab development funds, USA, Germany, Japan, France, Denmark and Iran have com-
mitted about $1,530 million as concessional aid. In February 1976 President
Sadat visited a number of Arab countries, and commitments for an immediate
transfer to Egypt of about $700 million in cash have been announced. It is
expected that further funds will be sought, and imports will probably be
reduced from the currently projected level. It has also been announced that,
for the longer-term, a fund to assist Egyptian development is being set up by
a group of Arab countries, although the amounts that will be available to it
are still uncertain.
22.       Egypt was, however, unsuccessful in its efforts to reduce its depend-
ence on bank credit facilities. Although a large part of the loans received
from Arab countries were in fact used to pay off bank credits falling due,
because of the country's import requirements (estimated at $4.5 billion in
1975), a high level of fresh bank credits (LE 700 million or $1,792 million)
was incurred. As a result, Egypt's external debt situation deteriorated
further in 1975. Medium- and long-term debt outstanding at end 1975 is
estimated to have increased to about $5.25 billion (including $2 billion of
long term deposits), compared to about $3.4 billion at end 1974 (including
about $600 million in long term deposits), short-term debt in the form of bank
credit facilities outstanding (including unutilized credits) was only slightly
reduced; on December 31, 1975, it was $2,620 million, compared with $2,700
million at end of 1974.
23.       Accordingly, considerable further measures are required to assure a
permanent improvement and the firm establishment of creditworthiness. To
assure stable and sustained growth in the long-term, some fundamental policy
decisions will be required. These include:
(i) improved coordination in economic policy-making;
(ii) improved public enterprise efficiency through decentralization
and other measures;
(iii)  rationalization of consumption subsidies and increased domes-
tic savings, while protecting lower income groups through
appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies;



- 8 -
(iv) promotion of efficient resource allocation through widening
the parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing price
policies that would better reflect economic scarcities;
(v) reduction of the use of short-term lending facilities, ratio-
nalization of the external debt situation and implementation
of a debt management program; and
(vi) The preparation of a medium-term plan covering the period
1976-80, to provide a framework for investment decisions and
policies.
While some steps have been taken recently with respect to (ii), (iv), (v) and
(vi) above, these measures will require continuing review and action. At the
Government's request, the Bank has arranged to review developments in the
economy by economic missions three or four times a year; the first of these
took place in October 1975 and the second in January 1976. A basic economic
mission visited Egypt in May/June 1976. In view of Egypt's promising medium-
term prospects, and the efforts currently underway to prepare and implement
policies that will enable the country better to exploit its development po-
tential, Egypt may be considered creditworthy for Bank lending as well as
IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
24.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's and IDA's twenty first lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $600.1 million. 1/ Annex II contains a Summary of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits as of May 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is
to provide foreign exchange in support of its development program through
lending (i) for increasing utilization of available productive capacity, (ii)
for projects which would increase production and foreign exchange earnings or
substitute for imports, particularly in the key industrial and agricultural
sectors, (iii) for projects aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastruc-
ture necessary to facilitate development, and (iv) for selected social sectors,
namely population and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in
projects has been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange required
for most of these projects from other donors. Besides the technical assistance
included under the Bank/IDA projects, the Bank is acting as Executing Agency
for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and has been asked to act as
Executing Agency for a Master Plan for Water Resources and Uses. Work on the
1/   Including a $50.0 million Third Window Loan for the Fruit and Vegetables
Development project approved by the Executive Directors on May 28, 1976,
and a $40 million Development Credit and a $10 million loan for a drain-
age project approved by the Executive Directors on June 8, 1976.



- 9 -
latter is expected to begin later this year. The Bank has also extended
limited technical assistance in the preparation of a five-year development
plan.
26.       The projects financed in FY74 and FY75 were in support of this
strategy. A second credit for the development finance operations of the
Bank of Alexandria was approved in early FY76, and a loan for rehabilitation
of the Port of Alexandria, to be cofinanced with USAID and the Japanese
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, was approved in April 1976. In agricul-
ture, a Bank loan on Third Window terms for a project for the production and
marketing of fruit and vegetables was approved by the Executive Directors in
May and a loan and a credit for a drainage project were approved in June 1976.
Bank/IDA operations in the industrial sector are described in para 29 below.
An education project and a project for the expansion and improvement of
Alexan4ria's water system have been appraised. A pipeline of projects for
possible future lending is also being developed, including projects in the
power sector, drainage in the Nile Delta and industry.
27.       Bank Group disbursements will continue in 1976 to represent less
than 10 percent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank's
and IDA's share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed was less than
1 percent at the end of 1975. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debts) is esti-
mated to reach about 10 percent in 1978, of which the Bank share would be
about 7 percent. It is estimated that in 1978, debt service payments due to
the Bank and IDA will represent about 1 percent of service payments due on
Egypt's external debt.
28.       IFC has in the past year also been discussing private sector and
joint venture projects. IFC participation in a ceramics project was approved
by the Executive Directors in April 1976.
Bank and IDA Strategy in the Industrial Sector
29.        Since 1972, a significant part of the Bank's and IDA's program in
Egypt has been in support of industrial development, six of the fourteen proj-
ects financed having been for industrial purposes. The Bank lending strategy
in the sector is to help Egypt in improving capacity utilization, and in
rehabilitating and modernizing selected industries, particularly those that
would promote exports and yield additional foreign exchange, or those that
would substitute for imports. The $70 million 1974 Bank/IDA Loan (No. 1062)
and Credit (No. 524) for Agricultural and Industrial Imports together with
other program assistance obtained by Egypt in 1974 and 1975 (see para. 17
above) contributed to raising utilization of capacity in the industrial sector
from some 68 percent in 1974 to about 90 percent in 1975. Through DFC opera-
tions the Bank supports-the Government's strategy of diversification and
growth of private sector medium and small-scale industries. Industrial sub-
sector studies financed under the Imports project should help in identifying
the priority investment needs as well as the institutional and policy reforms
that are needed. In the lending operations to individual public enterprises
(e.g., Talkha Fertilizer, Tourah Cement) agreement has been reached on reviews



- 10 -
of key policies for the sub-sectors. Industry is likely to be the key growth
sector in the 1976-80 Plan, and Bank involvement in the sector is expected to
continue to be substantial.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Background
30.       Egypt has a long established and active industrial sector which in
1974 accounted for about 21 percent of GDP, about 40 percent of non-tradi-
tional exports, and about 13 percent of total employment (or about 1.2 million
people), ranking second only to agriculture in its importance to the country's
economy. The industrial sector is expected to play the leading role in future
development, especially in view of constraints on expansion of agriculture due
to limitations of arable land and water for irrigation. Egypt has a large
domestic market, considerable human and natural resources, a favorable geo-
graphical situation, a reasonably well-developed industrial base, a tradition
of industrial activity, and a relatively skilled labor force; it also has a
demonstrated capability to produce and export a variety of manufactured goods.
However, in recent years the main constraints operating to the growth of the
industrial sector have been: (a) the shortage of foreign exchange, which led
to restricted imports of investment good; and to a shortage of imported raw
materials, and consequently to a considerable underutilization of capacity;
(b) a high degree of protection in some industries and import controls, which
prevented external competition and removed pressures to increase efficiency;
(c) generally poor quality of production (partly due to imports of low-quality
machinery) which has restricted industry's external markets; and (d) the
threat of nationalization and heavy controls on private enterprise, which in-
hibited the sector from expanding and playing a more active role.
31.       A further constraint has been that the control and management of
public sector enterprises were highly centralized from 1961 until the end of
1975. During that time, the public enterprises in each of the six industrial
subsectors operated under a General Organization which acted as a holding
company and was responsible for the activities of the enterprises and execu-
tion of Government policy in the sub-sector. The Ministry of Industry together
with the General Organizations exercised wide control over investment, produc-
tion targets, pricing, employment and export policies of public enterprises,
and in some cases intervened excessively even in production decisions of the
enterprises.
Recent Developments
32.       By Presidential Decree No. 111 of September 4, 1975, the Government
dissolved all the General Organizations as of the beginning of 1976. The
purpose was to give greater freedom and flexibility to enterprise management
and hence to permit them to act more competitively. This is a further step by
the Government towards liberalizing the economy and towards decentralization



- 11 -
of decision making, in line with Bank advice. Enterprises remain, however,
largely dependent on the national budget for foreign exchange and for alloca-
tions of resources for investment; they will still also have responsibility
for the retention of employees so as to relieve unemployment and their ability
to determine prices independently of Government controls is uncertain. Never-
theless, the abolition of the general organizations and the expanded use of
the parallel market exchange represent significant moves toward introducing
the discipline of the market into industrial decisions.
Growth and Production
33.       The real growth rate in the industrial sector during the period
1968/69-1970/71 was about 9 percent. Thereafter, it stagnated until 1974,
when output grew by about 5 percent. Growth rates in 1975 are reported
to be significantly higher. Egypt's principal industries, as measured by
employment and output, remain in the traditional textile and food processing
sub-sectors. Other sizeable sub-sectors now include engineering (including
production of vehicles, tractors and certain consumer durables), chemicals
(including fertilizers, paper and tires), metallurgical (mainly iron and
steel), and building materials. Some 75 percent of the value of industrial
output is accounted for by the public sector, which includes some 200 indus-
trial enterprises employing in total over 500,000 workers, about 5.5 percent
of the country's labor force. Private industry remains strong, especially in
textiles, food and beverage processing, woodworking, and leather goods; the
latter two sub-sectors being almost entirely in private hands. The private
manufacturing sector has altogether about 450,000 employees in over 150,000
establishments, of which some 2 to 3 percent are considered to be factory-type
operations, employing over 50 people.
Exports
34.       Manufactured goods exports grew by about 26 percent (in current
prices) between 1970 and 1973, and by 52 percent in 1974, largely due to the
significantly higher prices of cotton textile exports. However, lower prices
and volume of cotton textile exports and increasing domestic demand for manu-
factured goods, have probably resulted in a decline in the sector's export
earnings in 1975. It is noteworthy that the exports of the private sector
have grown much more rapidly than those of the public sector in recent years
(from 13 percent of total exports of industrial goods in 1970/71 to 24 per-
cent in 1974). While there is a substantial incentive for exports of non-
traditional goods to convertible currency countries, since the receipts for
those exports can be directed through the parallel market, a large proportion
of manufactured exports (64 percent in 1973 and 71 percent in 1974 - includ-
ing 90 percent of the private sectors' manufactured exports) went to Eastern
European countries.
Public Sector Investment
35.       Investment in public sector manufacturing industry increased by
about 80 percent to $325 million in 1974. About half the 1974 investment was
devoted to metallurgical industries, including the Helwan Steel Complex. The



- 12 -
balance was distributed among the remaining subsectors as follows: textiles
17 percent, chemicals 13 percent, food processing 9 percent, engineering
industries 5 percent and building materials 4 percent. The 1975 planned
investment in industry was marginally above the 1974 total; allocations to
the metallurgical subsector were reduced to 37 percent, reflecting a shift
of resources to the food processing and chemical subsectors. Investments for
the period 1976-80 in the industrial sector are still under discussion in the
context of the Five-Year Plan now being prepared.
Private Investment
36.       The investment climate for entrepreneurs in the private sector has
been improved in the past two years, helped by the new official recognition
given to the role of the private sector in the economy. A new foreign invest-
ment law was enacted in 1974 to give additional incentives to foreign private
investment in Egypt, particularly in the Suez Canal Zone. The Government
envisages local private investment mainly in medium- and small-scale indus-
tries. A Presidential decree of May 15, 1975 allows private participation
in new issues of stocks of public enterprises up to LE 10,000 per person.
The Textile Industry
37.       Textiles is one of Egypt's major industries.    It accounted in 1974
for about 50 percent of employment in the industrial sector, and 52 percent
of the value of output in the sector as a whole. Besides providing for nearly
all of the local needs, the industry accounted for 43 percent of exports of
manufactured goods in 1974; cotton and cotton products combined represented
about 70 percent of all Egyptian exports. However, the proportion of the
country's exports in the world textile trade has been small having been only
about 2 percent of the total trade and less than 5 percent of the cotton yarn
and fabrics trade. About 60-70 percent of the Egyptian exports go to the
Eastern European and Arab countries. Quotas for Egyptian textiles in the
European Community and the US have not been filled by a wide margin for
several years because of high domestic demand and also because, although
Egypt's cotton is of high quality, the quality of Egyptian textiles lagged
behind those of other competitors. Thus, a modest increase in the country's
exports supported by the project should not present any significant marketing
problems.
38.       Egypt is a major producer of cotton; it specializes in the produc-
tion of long and extra-long staple cotton. In 1970, it produced about 5
percent of total world output of cotton and about one-third of long staple
and extra long staple.     Recently, however, production of cotton decreased
and exports, which had averaged about 290,000 tons per annum during 1967-1973,
decreased to about 207,000 tons in 1975. This decline results from the fact
that because of the limited amount of arable land available in Egypt, the
cotton growing area had to be somewhat reduced to accommodate the increasing
demand for food crops. Also, in the last five years domestic per capita
consumption of textiles has been increasing by about 2 percent per annum.
Assuming a further moderate growth in the domestic demand for textiles,
considerable investments in the textile industry will be required to both
satisfy local demand and improve Egypt's exports of cotton textiles. If



- 13 -
exports of cotton are not to fall much further, cheaper short staple cotton
and/or synthetic fibers will have to be imported to meet the rising demand
for textiles and plans will have to be pursued to establish plants for the
domestic production of synthetic fibers.
Organization of the Textile Industry
39.        In the process of nationalizing industrial enterprises in Egypt in
1961, most of the existing textile companies became state-owned and were,
until the end of 1975, incorporated in the Egyptian General Organization for
Spinning and Weaving (EGOSW). In 1974, the 30 textile companies in the public
sector had combined sales of LE 401 million (US$1,027 million), employed
266,000 persons and accounted for 100 percent of the sector output of yarn and
70 percent output of fabrics. As explained earlier (see para 32), effective
January 1, 1976 the General Organizations were dissolved by Presidential
Decree and all shares of EGOSW's former subsidiary companies were transferred
to the Government. The decree removed EGOSW as an intermediary and made the
companies directly responsible to the Ministry of Industry.
40.       The textile industry covers a wide range of activities such as spin-
ning, weaving, converting, knitting and garment manufacturing. Since national-
ization, all spinning and converting as well as 70 percent of weaving, 45 per-
cent of knitting and 30 percent of garment manufacturing have been part of the
public sector; the balance being carried out by several hundred small companies
in the private sector. The public sector companies produce mostly cotton
textiles but also manufacture synthetic fibers, jute products, spare parts for
textile machinery and carpets.
41.       Although the number of spindles and looms has increased during the
last eight years, by about 40 percent and 30 percent respectively, investments
during this period in new facilities and the rate of replacement of obsolete
equipment--more than half of it is over 25 years old--have been inadequate.
In addition all textile mills have been operating on four shifts 350 days per
year, thus leaving practically no time for maintenance. Government policies
whereby the mills are heavily overstaffed are constraining factors for the
productivity of the mills. Despite these difficulties, the performance of
management and supervising personnel for most of the companies is rated as
highly satisfactory.
Demand and Supply
42.       Comparing the demand and supply projections, it appears that, unless
additional production facilities are provided, in 1980 domestic demand will
exceed supply by about 120 to 190 million square meters and in 1985 by about
300 to 470 million square meters. In view of the increased demand for domestic
cotton textiles, the potential for increased exports and the need to replace
obsolete equipment, it has been estimated that investments of the order of
about $2 billion will have to be made within the next 10 years. The total
cost of the proposed project represents approximately 7 percent of the
financing which might be required for investment in the sector until 1986.



- 14 -
Marketing and Pricing of Textiles
43.       Domestically marketed fabrics from the textile factories are sold
either to public sector wholesalers (80 percent), private wholesalers (15 per-
cent), or private garment manufacturers (5 percent). About 35 percent of the
domestic fabric consumption is of so-called "rationed" fabrics which are allo-
cated to each individual at subsidized Government-controlled prices, which
often do not. cover production costs. The price of rationed fabrics has not
been increased since 1968. Domestic ex-factory prices of non-rationed fabrics
have been increased since 1968 by 25 percent but are still about 7 percent
lower than world prices. Also, price controls for these fabrics result in
proliferation of the number of fabrics beyond actual market requirements and
do not provide any incentive to manufacturers to raise or even maintain a high
quality of domestic fabrics.
44.       The prices of yarn and fabrics exported to convertible currency mar-
kets are governed by competitive conditions in world markets. However, two
factors have hampered the Egyptian textile companies: (i) their external
sales are transacted at the official exchange rate rather than at the more
competitive parallel market rate, and (ii) they are not free to decide the
amount of textiles they could sell to convertible currency markets rather than
to barter agreement countries for which prices are set by the Government. The
Government is now reviewing the complex pricing policy in the sector with a
view to its rationalization.
Export Promotion
45.       One of the major requirements for a successful overall economic
development program in Egypt will be the expansion of export markets and an
improvement of the kinds of products that are competitive in these markets.
The five-year plan framework tentatively projects almost a doubling of total
exports during the period 1976-80 and exports of textile products are expected
to provide much of the impetus. However, there are many obstacles to be over-
come; of prime importance are improvements in quality control, and hence
quality of products and increase in price competitiveness and marketing cap-
abilities. An integrated program of export promotion of industrial products,
including textiles, is needed (see para. 59 below).
Previous Bank and IDA Lending in the Textile Sector
46.        Bank and IDA lending to the Egyptian textile sector commenced in
1973 when IDA made a credit of US$18.5 million to help finance a cotton gin-
ning rehabilitation project (Credit 423-UAR). This project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily (See Annex II). The financing of a study of the Egyptian
textile subsector was included as part of the Bank/IDA Agricultural and Indus-
trial Imports Loan and Credit. The study was completed in late May 1976 and
its findings are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
47.       The project was prepared by staff of the Misr Fine Spinning and
Weaving Company Kafr El Dawar (KED) and the Misr El Beida Dyers (EB) with
occasional assistance from Bank staff; it was preappraised in October 1975
and appraised in January 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington in May
1976. The Government was represented by Mr. Samir Koraim and Eng. Ahmed El
Baz. KED was represented by Eng. Mahmoud Ibrahim and EB by Eng. Omar Ismail.
An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Kafr El Dawar and El Beida
textile project" (No. 1131-EGT), datediJune 7, 1976, is being distributed
separately. The main features of the loan and project are summarized in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The project is designed to expand and rehabilitate the manufacturing
capacity of two textile companies, KED and EB, to provide training and techni-
cal assistance to the textile sector, and thus to help improve Egypt's indus-
trial export potential. The project would consist of the following:
(a)  Expansion of KED's manufacturing capacity by 25 percent.
It is expected that about 70 percent of the cotton
fabrics output of the project, as well as all the cotton
yarn not used in weaving would be exported}
(b)  Expansion of EB's converting capacity by 32 percent.
The EB subproject also includes expansion of the
caustic soda recovery and fabric coating operations;
(c)  training abroad of technical and supervisory personnel
from the textile sector;
(d)  technical assistance for the preparation of a feasibility
study for a new textile project;
(e)  technical assistance towards the establishment of an pro-
motion program designed to revitalize exports of indus-
trial goods.
Machinery and Buildings
49.       The two companies' mills would be equipped with new but conventional
equipment and machinery. The proposed machinery layout has been reviewed by
the Bank and found satisfactory. As world textile machinery industry is still
in a state of recession no problems are envisaged with equipment supplies.
Consequently, timely execution of the project will primarily depend upon the



- 16 -
prompt completion of the civil works. The Government has therefore agreed that
public sector contractors and building materials would be made available to
the companies on a priority basis (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Raw Materials and Utilities
50.       The basic raw materials required by KED are cotton and polyester.   In
order to maximize foreign exchange revenues, Egypt will, however, have to import
cheaper short staple cotton to release the more valuable long and extra-long
staple cotton for exports. As for polyester, it will initially have to be
imported, but eventually, the fiber is expected to be supplied by a new plant
now being considered by the Government. For EB, input materials will be gray
cotton fabrics for coating as well as dyestuffs and chemicals, of which about
75 percent will have to be imported. The Government has agreed to provide
the foreign exchange necessary for future supplies of input materials required
by the two companies (Section 3.06(c) of draft Loan Agreement). The Government
has also agreed to ensure the adequate supply of power facilities for the new
textile plants (Section 3.06(a) of draft Loan Agreement).
Ecological Considerations
51.       As KED is a grey cloth mill producing woven or knitted fabrics which
received no bleaching, dyeing or finishing treatment, it has no water or air
pollution problems. The effluent from the EB plant is highly alkaline and
is therefore discharged into a special drainage canal which empties into the
sea. As the water in the canal is on the acid side due to effluent from a
rayon plant, after the effluents from the two plants mix 200 meters downstream
from EB, the water would become almost neutral. Consequently the project does
not introduce any environmental dangers.
Project Costs
52.       Capital costs of the project are estimated at US$106.4 million,
equivalent, and working capital for raw materials, technical assistance and
training at an additional US$34.1 million. Interest and other charges during
construction are estimated at US$12.7 million. Of the total financing require-
ments of US$153.2 million, US$105.1 million, or 69 percent, would be in foreign
exchange including $11.7 million for interest during construction on the for-
eign exchange portion of the capital costs. Cost estimates have been prepared
on the basis of price quotations obtained by KED and EB from textile equipment
suppliers and Egyptian construction firms. A 5 percent allowance has been
added for physical contingencies; price contingencies of 9 percent for 1976
and 8 percent for 1977 and thereafter, have been included for foreign equip-
ment, and 13 percent and 12 percent for civil works, respectively. As the
type of equipment to be used is standard, and the project scope is well de-
fined, the risk of cost increases is limited and the capital cost estimates
are considered realistic. A more detailed description of the project costs is
provided in Annex III.



- 17 -
Financing Plan
53.       The proposed Bank loan would contribute US$52 million, equivalent,
or 34 percent of the project's total financing requirements. The Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development (Arab Fund) has confirmed that it is
considering a parallel loan in the amount of Kuwait Dinars 10 million (US$34.5
million equivalent) representing 23 percent of the financing requirements; the
terms of the Arab Fund loan have not yet been determined. The procedures to
be followed for coordinating the Arab Fund's and the Bank's activities during
project execution and supervision will be agreed upon with the Arab Fund prior
to effectiveness. The signing of the Arab Fund loan agreement will be a con-
dition of effectiveness under the Bank loan agreement (Section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement). A letter of understanding regarding project administra-
tion arrangements will also be exchanged with the Arab Fund upon approval of
its loan. The Government will provide the remaining foreign exchange of
US$18.6 million.
54.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Arab Republic of Egypt
for a term of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of
8.85 percent per annum. Except for about US$1.3 million to be used by the
Ministry of Industry for financing of technical assistance, sectoral training
and export promotion, US$25.8 million and US$24.9 million of the loan proceeds
would be onlent to KED and EB, respectively, at 10 percent per annum (interest
plus a Ministry of Finance charge as interest equalization fee) with the same
repayment and grace period as the Bank loan. The two companies would bear the
foreign exchange risk on their respective portions of the loan.
55.       The Arab Fund and Bank loans would finance separate lists of goods
and services. The proposed Bank loan would be used to finance the foreign
exchange expenditures of the weaving equipment for KED, all the finishing
equipment of EB, for incremental working capital (for part of the imported
polyester fibers and yarn, and chemicals and dyestuffs), and for part of the
foreign exchange expenditures of construction materials. It would also
finance all foreign costs of consulting services and of technical assistance
and training. The Arab Fund is expected to finance the foreign exchange
expenditures of the spinning equipment of KED. The Government has agreed in a
supplemental letter to provide the funds required to cover the local currency
costs of the project, estimated at US$48.1 million, equivalent. Moreover, the
Government has agreed to provide any additional resources which might be
required to complete the project and bring it into operation.
Project Implementation
56.       KED which was established in 1938 is a company concentrating on the
spinning and weaving of very fine yarns and grey fabrics. With a work force
of about 21,000, KED is the second largest employer in Egypt's textile indus-
try.  EB was established in 1938 and has, at present, a work force of about
7,000. Most of EB's business consists of converting yarn and fabrics on a



- 18 -
commission basis. It is converting all products of KED. KED and EB will be
responsible for the execution of the project except for sectoral training, the
preparation of a feasibility study for a future textiles project and the
export promotion component, which will be administered by the Ministry of In-
dustry. The managements of the two companies are considered competent in
operating their plants. Expansion of plant facilities in the past was accom-
plished by the two companies in a satisfactory manner as was the preparation
of the feasibility study for the proposed project. The two companies are,
however, not adequately familiar with the different types of machinery which
are likely to be offered to them as a result of international competitive
bidding under the project. Also, operation of the new plants at higher pro-
ductivity levels will require additional training as well as introduction
of modern technical and cost control methods. The two companies have there-
fore agreed as a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement) to employ a textile engineering and consulting firm, acceptable to
the Bank, as Technical Advisor, on terms satisfactory to the Bank. The main
responsibility of the Technical Advisor will be to assist KED's and EB's im-
plementation units in drafting detailed engineering specifications, evaluating
tenders and in providing management and technical assistance (Section 2.03 of
the draft Project Agreements). Satisfactory project implementation units have
already been established within KED and EB. Civil works will be carried out
by local contractors who will work closely with the two companies' project
units.
Training
57.       Skilled workers will be selected from the companies' existing oper-
ations and trained to operate the new equipment. As the equipment will be of
conventional design, training, customarily given by machinery suppliers, plus
special training programs for supervisory and other personnel carried out with
the assistance of the Technical Advisor are expected to ensure that the new
plants will achieve full operating capacity within one year after start up.
58.       Regarding the training and technical assistance to be provided to
the textile sector as a whole in order to acquaint Egyptian textile engineers
with modern production techniques and modern machinery, the Government under-
took to present to the Bank by August 31, 1976 and December 31, 1976, re-
spectively, specific proposals for the utilization of funds provided under
the project (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Export Promotion
59.       An allocation of US$1 million (based on 600 manweeks of consulting
time) is included under the proposed loan to defray the foreign exchange costs
of expert services to help towards the establishment of an export promotion
scheme for manufactured goods, including textiles products. The Government
has agreed that within a year from the initiation of the work, the ministries
concerned (see below) will jointly recommend to the Government, following



- 19 -
consultation with the Bank, (i) an action program to revitalize exports
through measures aimed at spec,ific product lines and markets and (ii) a set of
policies that will include export incentives (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The work will be under the direction of an interministerial com-
mittee to include, inter alia, the Ministers of Commerce, Economy and Economic
Cooperation, Planning, Industry and Agriculture or their representatives. A
task force will be assembled with professional staff seconded from the minis-
tries, and with help from foreign consultants. The work of the task force
will build on the studies in the six industrial subsectors that are being
financed under the Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project (see para. 29
above), but will emphasize programs and policies that will give an immediate
as well as long-term stimulus to exports. Bank staff will assist the Govern-
ment in the carrying out of the study.
Procurement
60.       Goods and services to be financed under the proposed loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement except for (i) miscellaneous small items
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent but not exceeding the aggregate amount
of US$1.0 million for each company, which may be purchased through interna-
tional shopping on the basis of suitability, availability and price considera-
tions following approval by the Bank of the list of items involved; (ii)
proprietary items necessary for repair of the existing equipment and items in
limited supply which are critical to the timely completion of the project and
whose aggregate cost is estimated not to exceed US$2 million for KED and US$1
million for EB; and (iii) polyester fibers and yarn, dyestuffs, chemicals and
construction materials; which may be procured through international shopping
on the basis of at least 3 quotations from qualified foreign suppliers approved
by the Bank. International shopping is considered acceptable because (i) it
is the most economic manner for purchasing items readily available from sup-
pliers' stocks, (ii) the administrative burden and time involved in purchasing
items of this nature through international competitive bidding, and (iii) in
the case of the specific raw materials required for the project, of the limited
number of suppliers of the particular items needed. If KED and EB choose to
procure construction materials on the basis of international competitive
bidding, domestic suppliers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the
actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Preparation of technical specifica-
tions are now in progress and it is expected that the first equipment orders
could be placed in early 1977.
Disbursement
61.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the for-
eign expenditures for (a) imported equipment, spares, and related items; (b)
imported construction materials or 100 percent of the expenditures (ex-factory
costs) if locally manufactured; and (c) project and sector technical assistance
and training. Retroactive financing for foreign expenditures incurred after
May 1, 1976, in connection with bid advertisement in foreign newspapers and
the employment of technical advisors, would be eligible in an amount not
exceeding US$100,000.



- 20 -
Financial Projections
62.       With the expansion, KED's sales revenue is forecast to increase by
LE 18.0 (US$46.1) million by 1980, when the project reaches full production.
Net profit after taxes is projected to increase as a result of the project
from LE 3.1 (US$7.9) million in 1974 to LE 6.4 (US$16.3) million in 1980.
This would result in an increase in the return on net worth from about 10
percent in 1976 to about 20 percent in 1982. The company's exports are
expected to increase by LE 7.6 (US$19.4) million, or by about 68 percent of
the companies' expected export earnings without the project. As for EB, by
1980 incremental sales revenue and net profit after tax are forecast at LE
11.5 (US$29.3) million and LE 2.4 (US$6.1) million, respectively. These
incrementals constitute increases of 47 percent and 63 percent over the ex-
pected sales revenue and profit after tax of the company without the project.
The return on net worth would increase from about 16.5 percent in 1976 to
about 21 percent in 1982. As pointed out above, EB does not export any of
its products. Liquidity and debt service coverage of both KED and EB are
considered fully adequate. Overall, the financial outlook for the two com-
panies is good. The financial statements of the companies are audited by
the Central Agency for Auditing, a government agency. This arrangement is
satisfactory to the Bank.
63.       To safeguard the financial position of the two companies,
the Government has agreed to:
(a) not take any action which would, assuming efficient operations,
preclude the companies from meeting all their expenses and
servicing their debt out of earnings and from earning a
reasonable return on invested capital (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement); and
(b) not make any cash withdrawals from the companies which would
prevent each of them from maintaining a ratio of current
assets to current liabilities of at least 1.5 (Section 4.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       The companies have agreed to the following:
(a) EB will submit to the Bank within six months after loan
signing a detailed study of its present and future liquidity
position (Section 4.03(a) of the EB draft Project Agreement).
(b) to ensure their liquidity, KED and EB will maintain a current
ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 1:5 or above
(Section 4.03(a) and Section 4.03(b) of the KED and EB draft
Project Agreements, respectively).
(c) before completion of their subprojects, KED and EB will not
undertake any new investments (other than the Project and
normal maintenance and renewal of equipment)in excess of
US$2.5 million equivalent each per year without prior agree-
ment with the Bank (Section 4.04(a) of the KED and EB draft
Project Agreements); and



- 21 -
(d) after completion of their subprojects the two companies will
not undertake any further capital investment without prior
agreement with the Bank if as a result of such investments
their respective debt/equity ratio would exceed 60/40
(Section 4.04(b) of the KED and EB draft Project Agreements).
65.       The financial rate of return of the KED component of the project
is estimated at 12 percent. An increase in operating or capital costs by 10
percent would result in a decrease in the financial rate of return by 2.3
percent or 1.4 percent, respectively. As for the EB part of the project, the
financial rate of return is estimated at 16 percent. An increase in operating
or capital costs by 10 percent would result in a decrease in the financial rate
of return by 3.5 percent or 2.0 percent, respectively. The overall financial
return for the project is expected to be about 13 percent.
Risks
66.       The project faces no more than normal technical, managerial and
commercial risks involved in such industrial investments. In view of the
Government assurances regarding the availability of public sector contractors
and building materials (see para. 49 above) the likelihood for substantial
delays in implementation is low. Major cost overruns during project imple-
mentation, unless caused by a sudden increase in the world demand for textile
equipment are considered unlikely. Also, technical risks are limited because
of (i) KED's and EB's experience in managing, constructing and operating tex-
tile projects; and (ii) participation of a Technical Advisor in project imp-
lementation. The commercial risks of the project are acceptable, mainly
because of the large unsatisfied demand for the polyester-cotton fabrics in
Egypt and since the additional exports from the project will represent a
relatively small part of total textile exports. The financial performance
of the two companies will depend in large measure on the Government's pricing
policies. However, as noted above (para. 63 a) the Government has agreed not
to take any action which would preclude the companies from earning a reason-
able return on invested capital.
Economic Benefits and Justification
67.       The economic rate of return for the KED component of the project is
estimated to be 21 percent, for the EB component 22 percent; the overall eco-
nomic rate of return of the project is estimated at 22 percent. This aggre-
gate rate of return excludes the costs for sectoral training and technical
assistance since the benefits deriving from this investment cannot be easily
quantified. The export promotion assistance would be particularly beneficial
in stabilizing and improving Egypt's foreign exchange earnings. International
prices for the tradeable inputs and outputs were used in calculating the rate
of return.
68.       The project will provide new employment to about 2,850 people which
represents an increase of about 10 percent of the present employment of the
two companies. The foreign exchange savings from the project would be of
importance to the Egyptian economy. The net annual foreign exchange savings
from the project would amount to about US$52 million by 1980.



- 22 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Kafr El Dawar Spinning
and Weaving Company, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and El Beida
Dyers Company, the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special features of this Project are referred to in paras. 49, 50,
56, 58, 59, 63, and 64 of this report.
71.       The signing of a loan agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt
and the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development (for the provision of
additional foreign exchange required for the project), the appointment of
technical advisors and the conclusion of satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments between the Government and KED and EB, respectively, are additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan and Project Agreements (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 9, 1976



A2NNEX I
EGPT- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEEF
LIND AREA (THOU ER2)                       .........               .........             ...
- ----                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~EGPYP MSTRCN               REFERENCE COlOUIRIES 11910)
ARABLC        35.6                        1960       19r0    ESTIMATE            PHILIPPINES     TURKET          SPA[IN 
54P PER CAPITA CUSS)                        100         200          210200                           400        16.
POPULATION AND VI14L STATISTICS
PDPIJLATZON ENIDYR.  MILLION)   25~~~z.8     33.3        35.6                 36.9         15.2        13.6
POPUJLAT ION DENSITY
PER SQAREKM                              26.0         33.         3.0                123.0         45.         66.0
PER SQUARE KMl ARABLE LAND                 ,. 310'00.0O.                                          14.
VIrA11L STATISTICS
CRUDE NIRTH MATE PER THOUSAND            43.0D       35. 0        35.0                45.0         38.0a /a    a19.6
CRUDEDEHAI    RATE PER THO USAND         1f.0        15.0         11.0                12.0         13.0/a        8.5
INFANT "O RTALITy RA TE 4/THOU          1090        160          103.0                80.0        150          2.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 819ITH (1RS,          51.    5.0               53 .0               58.0         55.0 /b     71.
GRtOSS REPRODUCI ION RATE                  .8 /8      3.01         3.0                 3.3e: 7.47               1.
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                     2.4         2.5          2.                  1.I0         2.5          1.1
URBaAN4                                   6.0         3. 6         1.5                 4.0          4. :5        2.0
URBAN POPULATION It 0F TOTAL)              38.0         42. 0       4 3.0                12 .0        19. 0       4 9.0
AGE STRUCTURE (P ERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           43.0 a/b    44. 0           .4 3 .0                       41.8        27.8
IS IDAi64 YEARS                         5 4.07b      52.0           .is3.                         51.          62.5
615 TEALS AND DOER                        3. o7_      4.0            .4.0,                          43           9.7
LIE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9          0.9          .                   0.9         0.9          0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATED                   1.8a         I.1           .                  1.6           .j 1.11
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                .       2 0 0.1 a                        409.0        404.0j Id
USERS (I 3t NARRIED 40REN)                 ...                     9. 0                8.0          8. 2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTL  ABR FOIRCE (THOUSANJOS)        7800.0 Ic    8300.0 lab 9500.0               12 300.0    14500. 0/-   11900.0
LALOIA FORCE IN AURICULTURE 41)            57.0 I-c      ,:O'O1     47 .0                1.0        6 1.0a       24.8S
UNEM4PLOYED CX OF LABOR FORCE)              5.0          3.0         2.0 I                7.0         4. 0 If      2.0/
iSCORE OISYRIBUTIOI
OF PRIVATE- INCOME RECD AY-
VH1HEST   SI OF POPULATION               19.20         ...d.                                       32.8 La 
HIGHEST 20? OF POPULATION                48.Id          ....                                       60. 6 _a
LO./EST  100 JF PCPULAkTION               467           .. d                                        2. 9 La
LIWOEST  401 OF PGPUIIIION               14.1 I-d      ...                                           . 4 La
DISTRPIUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I DONPED By TOP 10? Of- OLNERS               .....                                          .        53. 0
% OANED AT SMALLEST 101 OWNTERS              ......                                                   0. 9
HEALTH ANO NUTRIT1IN
POPU;LATIO% PR PHYICIAN2500.0/e                      1is1o.oLs     18200/              2?710.0O     2220.0       75. 
PPOPLATION PER NURSING PERSON            2 730.0 1. 6160.4TLS     aszzo.o             197.0        180.0 La    1430 .0O
POPULAiTION PER HOSPITAL aEO              500.01.     4660. 0      46 0.0              8 50.0       490.9       220.0
PER CAPITA SU/PPLY OF -
CALORIES (1 'OF REQUIAIERENYS)           95.0        9 4.0       1 00. 0              85.0        10a. 0      107.0
PROTEIN(GRAMS PER DAT )                  66.0        4 6. 0       69.0a               *5.0         78. 0       81.0
.OF WHICH ANIMAL AiND PULSE           if.0LZA      16.0          .                 22.0         22.0' 1i    4 0.0)
DELTH VAFE I/FHOU) AGES 1-4                39. 0          ...                              .0        15. 0 lb      0.9
LOUCRY ION
-ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIRAHiy SCHOOL                          66. 0       10.0           ..119 .0                      111t. 0      813.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         16.0         13.0          ..45.0                         28.0        49.0
TEARS Or SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 12.0        12. 0        12.0                 10 .0      a31.0         11.0a
VOCOLTIOEAL E-NRA0-ENT
CZ OF SECONDARY)                         22.0        19. 0        1 9.0               10.0/a      14.0o        290.0
A OUL T L ITERACY RA TE I(Xi               20. 0           .        4 0.0                72.0        55. 0 Li     94A. 0
Pau S 1PEG
P-E-R-SONS PER ROOM  (AVERAGE)                1.6          ...                               .1.9
OCCUJPIED DWE LL INGS WI THOU T
PIPED  RArER                             60.0l/         .           .                 66.0 lb      64. 0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(0 OF ALL DLE-.. NGS)                    38.0Ib        ?.            .                2.0 lb       411.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECIED
TO ELECTRICITY CZ)                         ....6 .0 Lb                                             18.0O
RAOIE. RECEIRERS (PER THOU POP)            59 .0       132. 0      14 3. 0               45.0        e9.0a       2 14. 0
PHSSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                3 .0        4. 0        5.0                  8.0          4. 0       70.0
ELEC)RICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              102.0        228.0       200.0                235.0       244.0       162r.0
NEASFPRIN3  CR0/YR PER CAP)                 1.13         1. 0         1 .3                1. 5/v       0.7r        5.8
SEE RUTES AND DEFINITIoNs ON AEVERSE



Pg2of4Pages
1unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, end for Moat Recent Estimate to 1971-73.
44Spain's successful diversification of ito economic structure, degree of indusztrielisation end dewelopsest of touris, makes it en appropriate
'objective' coun.try.
EGYPT               1960     /a  1950-355    lb  Excluding population of email agglomerations to the frontier districts;      Ic  Figure relates to person
_____       ____    __  six.L years and over, excludes easd population;     14  1964-65. households:    /e  1962;    7?   Including assistant nre
and midwives;    La   1960-62;    /b  Urban only.
1970    Ia  1966,    /b  Relates to 12-64 years of age;     Ic  Regiatered. not all practicing in the countrv.
MOST EISCENT tSTDIATE, Is May 1972; lb Registered, not all practicing in the coutry.
PHILIPPINES         1970     I  Public eduestion only;     /b  1967;    Ic   Imports only.
TURKEY               1970    IsExcludes 17 Eastern provinc.ss      lb  1965-67;     Ic  Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 al over to labor force age 15 Yesro
and over;    Id   1964 - June 1974, 86 percent bein-g[ifDe    Is   15 yearn and over, excludes unemployed;     If  Registered
only,    /i Disposable incams of heuaholds        lb  Including assisatant nurses and midwives;    It. 1964-66;
LA. Person, aix years old and over who tell the cmants takers that they can read and write.
SPAIN                1970    /s  esgisterad unemployed;  /b  Registered,..nt all practicing in the country.
65 February 18, 1976
WEfINrrIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou Ia 2                                                                 Popultion Pernringprso        - Population dividled by number of practicing
Lotal - Total surface ara comprising land area, and inland water,mml.ndfml gaute nurses, "trained"- Or "certified"- nuroen, and
Arable -Moot recent eatimate of land urea used tensorarily or pernmanently             auxiliary personnel with training or expsrience.
for cultivation, pastures, market and kbitahen gardens or to lie fallow.          Popultibolnper hoEmital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
aalbein public and pri vats general and spocialiced hospital and
GNIP per capita (US$) - GON? per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-             rehabilitation centers; excludes turning homas and entablishments for
lotead by sane conver.onn  method as World Bank Atlas (1972-71 basis),              custodial and preventive care.
Per capita suppl of.cles      0%ofr   mrments) - Computed fnm energy
vital stati. tics                                    ~~~~~~equivalent o nt oo  sppie     ailble In country per capita per day;
".  ~  ,kId-r. mllirl)- As of July first; if not available, average            available supplies comprise domostic producticn, imports less exports,
of' two  n-year estimates,                                                          and changes in stock; mie't supplieo exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities
used in food procesoing and losses in distribution; requirements were
Population destkmpo       o',rj       Mid-year papulat ion per square kilo-            estimated by FAD based on physiological needs for normal activity
meter 100 bt tars) of   area.                                                 and health cuneidering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Popula,tion desit  - per square Ion of arabialar I   Computed as above for             sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
arable land only.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~level.
Per.Zcapit spp    ofpoteinp(a     s    r day  - Protein content of per
Vital rtat-sticu                                                                       cait   nt   upl   o         FFode  da;et suply of food is defined a
Crudeubi thiat  per tho seud - Annual live births per thousand of mid-             above; require ments for ail countries established by USDA Economic
year   T      n          v iulfl Ijfva-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and        Research Services provide for a minimimus allouance of 60 grams, of total
1u7C for developing countries,                                                       protein per~ day, and 20 grams of anImal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crmd lea; h rate per thousa&nd -Annual deaths par t.housand of mid-year                grams should be animal protein, these stantdards are lower than those of
population; usually fiv-yer averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                   75 gram  of total protein andl 23 grams of animal protein as an average
I.r de-sloping cotntnimu.                                                            far the woeld, proposed by F'AD in the Third World Food Survey.
lnfpgmop~li~ rate C/thou) - Annual deaths rf infants under one year             Per cpit2prteinsupyfo          animal ad pulse -    Protein supply of fsod
o     tghprIousand live births,.eie                                                     rmaiasadple             ngasprdy
life expectancy at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life remain-             Dt rate ( thou       es 1;  - Annual deaths per thownand in age group 1-4
ing at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                     e.    to c        in ths age group; suggested as an indiLcator of mal-
1975 fur developing c-outries,                                                       nutrition.
Jro.. reprsdoctton rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
berinhr n-rmal reproductive period if she experiences present age-            Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               Aduse enrollmnt ratioc -     rimaysho       - Fbrollment of all ages as
1970 -nd 19?C for developin,g countries,RE `rcntag                                              ofpIaysho-g            opulation; includes cbildren aged
P.DA.Un zwthrote Kg    - tnt-al - Compound annual growth rates of mid-            6-11 years but adjusted for di-fferent lengths of primary education;
year popolationfo3r i95FSW!W'n070, and 1960 to mast recent year.                     for countries with universal education, enrollment nay exceed 100%
o-,,tb~ , n  rote (%)  urban- Computed like growth rate of total                since some pupils  are below or above the official schoo] age.
iu'liT    rT~Tiemnt,odeinitions of arbor areas nmp affect compara-          Ad4juted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
I Mty of dt.t among countres.                                                       ayecation requires at leas-t four -years of approved pr-imary instruc -
trbos population 0% oft tota) - Patio of urban to total population; dif-               ti.n; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
forert definitions of urban areas may affect compaability of data                   pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; csr,resp-ndonce courses are generally
among countries,                                                                     excluded.
Age   pgJI   ercent) - Children (0-li years), work-ing-age (15-64 yeses),           Years of seooLngprvied(firt and second le-sel) - Total years of
niiFtfreA{Pred  ieaiy-s and seer) as percentages of mid-year population              scooing    at seodr      ee,vctional instruction may be partially
4gpepdVanencg3 ratio   - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to               or completely excluded.
hs   fages t5 thrugs 6i.                                                      Vocational enrollmeta(% roftsecondary) - Vocational institutions include
Ec..onoic dopendency ratio - Satin of' population under 15 and 65 end over             technical, inutril     rthr Programs which operate indopendently or
to theT ao   frte Is, age group of 15-61 years.                                     as departemnts Of s econdary.ins titutions.
F'amily plonming -ocpre(u         ltive. thou                                ) - CIataie  obe  fAdlrltrayr   te (%  ie ateaults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-cntrol devices under auspices of natioual family                  rottage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family Ilna    -iers k% of married caue,,) - Percentages of married                  Houslno
wTomenof rhid-bearing age f15-44 yearn) who use birth-control de-                    es-sDr room      average) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
v.ices to all married womec an same age group.                                       conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-pensanent
strctures and Eunoccupied parts.
Emloymnt  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~~~ooie          welns wi thoutpiped     twae   () - Occupied conventional dwell-
TotVlao ojrcekPoS        d) - Economically active persons, including                  ings in urban and nralara     wthout inside or outside piped water
amdfmsand unemp   yed but excluding housewives, studenta, etc.;               facilities as percentage of all occuied dwellirgs.
dofun,tionn it. various countries are not comparable.                              Access to eloctricitpg(% ofrtalldwellings) - Coneentional dwellings with
Labor force in agriculture (%)- Agricultural labor force (in farming,                  electricit  inlingqatr         as peroent of total dwellings is urban
foesry, hooting and fishing', an percentage of total labor fecce.                and rural areas.
SUn_:1 eZd  % of1lbor force) - Ulnemployed are usually defined as Persons            Rural delngsa connected to electricity M%      - Computed an above for rural
are a5 nd -illng t.o take a job, out of a job on a givsn day,                  awelig     ny
mreained out of a   ob, and seek-ing woerk for a specified minimum
period not exceeding00ne week; may not be comparable between noun-                 Cosm  ptiOn
tries d-,tei  different definitions of unemployed and source of data,              Radio receivers (p er thou Poop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
e.g., amploymetit, offite statistics, sample sur~veys, compulsory unm-               casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ploy.net insurance,                                                                  receivers in countries and in years; when registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recet years say not be comparable since mast coun-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (lath in cash and                   tries abolishdlcnig
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                Pas     rcas     er thou po) - Passenge    cars comprise motor cars samting
10% of popu:ation.                                                                  lsthn eight persons, excludes ambulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
Distributioc, of land -uership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest             EletO.ricity .(jfl~b...p PWCap) - Annual consumption of industrial, ourenr-
10% and poorest 10% of lund ownrs.                                                   cial, public andjepristeelectricity in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on production data, without allowace for losses in grids
Health and Nutr,ition                                                                  but allowing for imots and exports of electricity.
Po,,:t                    - e   s Populat.ion  divided by number of practicing       Newsprint (kg/yr pe lrcp    - Per capita annual consumiption in kilogramse
pbs  0  qeifnefo    a medical school at university level.                     estianted frrn domestic production plus rot imports of newoprint,



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - EGYPT. ARAB REPUB8IC OF
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974.-  US$280
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7.. constant prices)
US $ Mln.      %                            1960-65     1965-70      1970-73     1974
GNP at Market Prices           10,109    100.0                             6.6         3.8         3.0         3.8
Gross Domestic Investment       1,894     18.7                            11.0        -1.1         8.8        26.4
Gross National Saving 2/          310      3.1                              -           -           -
Current Account Balance 2/     -1,584    -15.6                              -           -           -
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,196     21.7                             5.0         1.9        (3/)        (3/)
Imports of Goods, NFS           3,823     37.8                             8.0         1.0        (3/)        (3/)
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
4/
Value Added-                  Employment                 V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.                   Mln.                          US $          %
Agriculture                     3,187     34.2            4.21        46.6                757        73.4
Industry and Mining             1,933     20.7            1.15        12.7              1,681       162.9
Electricity                       123      1.3             .04         0.4              3,075       298.0
Construction                      345      3.7             .31         3.4              1,113       107.9
Distribution Sector             1,352     14.5            1.29        14.3              1,048       101.6
Services Sector                 2.389     25.6            2.04        22.6              1.171       113.5
Total/Average                9,329    100.0            9.04       100.0              1,032       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                   Central/Federal Government
($  ln.               % of GDP
19745          1974         1969-71-/
Current Receipts                     2,926          31.6           21.3
Current Expenditure                  3.105          33.5           20.7
Current Surplus                       -179          -1.9            0.6
Emergency Fund 7/                    1,308          14.1           9.2
Capital Expenditures                 1,492          16.1           11.7
External Financing (net)               202           2.2           -0.4
/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1975 World Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
2/ Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
3/ Accurate constant price growth rates are not available due to insufficient information concerning
trade deflators.
4/ At current factor costs.
5/ Preliminary figures.
6/ 1969-71 current receipts and expenditures not comparable with 1974 data because of differences in
methodology.
7/  A Government account for special defence facilities and reconstruction, funded by Arab grants and
earmarked revenue receipts. The operations of the Fund are excluded from the national budget.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
-2-
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                          1971            1972            1973            1974
(Million LE Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                           1,166           1,345           1,633           2,114
Claims on Government                             1,342          1,469           1,656           2,038
Claims on Non-Government Sector                   5149            553             5,31            788
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as X of GDP                36.0            39.7           l4.9             53.2
Consumer Price Index (1966/67 = 100)             113.611/        117.4           122.14          135.7
Annual percentage changes in:                       1/
Consumer Price Index                             14.o0            2.8             4.3            10.9
Claims on Government                             13.6             9-5            12.7            23.i
Claims on Non-Government Sector                   5.0             0.7            -4.0            48.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-74)
1972     1973     1974                                             US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Raw Cotton                         545     40.7
Exports of Goods               813   1,003    1,674             Yarns and textiles                 218    16.3
Imports of Goods            1,286    1,6602/ 3,4282/            Rice                               73      5-5
Trade Balance (deficit = -)   3       -657   -1,754            All other commodities              502     37-5
Total                      1,338    100.0
Services, Net                    7       7      170
Net Transfers                  295      7272/ 1,258/            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account    -T71       77     -326
US $ Mln
Net MLT Borrowing                                                 Public Debt Oautstanding &-Disbursed   2,76O01/
Disbursements              417       362      522
Amortization               294       420      654
Subtotal                   123       -58    -132                                        3/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974 -
Other Non-Monetarv Capital     21       -13      -53_
(net)                        -          -
Overall Balance (surplus +)   -27         6    -5)1               Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed    32.3
Gross reserves                               356
(end of year)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through January 1973
US $ 1.00 = .6E 0.435
1.00 = US '2.30
Since February 1973
US $ 1.00  LE 0.390
1.00 = US $2.56
l/ Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis, figure refers to "fiscal" year 1970/71.
2/ Includes the market value of petroleum grants.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
7   Excluding about $600 million in long-term deposits.
EHENA Region
June 9, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of May 31, 1976)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit                                                           Less cancellations
Numbers          Year  Borrower    Purpose                     Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR       1959     SCA      Suez Canal Expansion        56.5    --         --
Cr 181-UAR       1970    UAR       Nile Delta Drainage         --       26.0     10.0
Cr 284-UAR       1972    ARE       Railways                    --       30.0      3.3
Cr S-13-UAR_/    1972    ARE       Cotton Ginning Engr.        --       0.2       --
Cr 393-UAR       1973    ARE       Upper Egypt Drainage        --       36.0     23.9
Cr 412-UAR       1973    ARE       BOA                         --      15.0       5.5
Cr 423-UAR       1973    ARE       Cotton Ginning              -_      18.5       9.1
Cr 437-UAR       1973    ARE       Population                  --       5.0       4.8
Cr S-15-UAR/     '19     ARE       Talkha Engr.                --       0.4       --
Cr 484-UAR       1974    ARE       Talkha Fertilizer           --      20.0      13.7
Cr 524-EGT       1974    ARE       Ag/Ind Imports I            --      35.0       5.1
Ln 1062-EGT      1974    ARE         "      "    "             35.0    --        18.5
Ln 1064-EGT      1974     SCA      Suez Canal Rehabilitation   50.0    --        50.0
Ln 1085-EGT      1975    ARE       Tourah Cement               40.0    --        36.9
Ln 1098-EGT      1975     ERO      Railways                    37.0    --        36.5
Cr 548-EGT       1975    ARE       Telecommunications          --      30.0      30.0
Cr 576-EGT       1975    ARE       BOA II                      --       25.0     24.9
Ln 1239-EGT 3/    1976   APA      Alexandria Port              45.0    --        45.0
Totals                                                        263.5   241.1     317.2
Of which has been repaid                                       56.5     0.6
Total now outstanding                                         297.0   240.5
Amount sold                                           7.4
Of which has been repaid                              6.0       1.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                             205.6   240.5     317.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of May 31, 1976)
Amount in
US$ -million
Year      Obligor                    Type of Business     Loan   Equity        Total
1976      Arab Ceramic Company5/     Ceramic Industry     4.25    .75          5.0
(plus .635     (J.635)
contingency commitment)
1/  Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR.
2/  Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April 17,
1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the Government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended by IDA to improve project performance and to provide effective man-
agement. The major problem facing this project up to the end of 1974--of lack
of local funds--was resolved by allocation under the 1975 national budget.
Adequate local currency has been made available for 1976. Although project
implementation has improved, it will not be possible to recoup all the time
lost and project completion will not now be possible before December 1979.
Procurement is almost completed.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February 9,
1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: (i) September 30, 1976,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. Most of the pro-
curement contracts have been awarded, and the bulk of the credit has been com-
mitted. To allow the small balance of some $600,000 to be utilized fqr purchase
of spare parts for the existing locomotive fleet, the Closing Date for the first
part of the project, originally December 31, 1973, was extended for a third time
to September 30, 1976.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June 8,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress on both the drainage and the bilharzia control components
of this project was initially slow, but is now satisfactory. However, project
cost estimates have increased by about 20%, as a result of price increases.
Foreign exchange costs have risen by about 14% almost entirely due to price
increases of materials for bilharzia control. (The foreign cost overrun of
the bilharzia control program is to be financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage
II Loan and Credit approved on June 8, 1976.)
Cr. No. 412-UAR.- Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Effective Date: November 29, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
Disbursements which were only $2.3 million as of May 31, 1975, have accelerated
and stood at $9.5 million as of April 30, 1976.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Prices of bids received in May 1974 for major equipment packages
were much higher than expected, and the total estimated foreign exchange cost
is now estimated to be about $41.5 million.   In January 1976, the Saudi Fund
for Development concluded an agreement to provide $25.6 million to finance the
cost overrun thus enabling implementation of the project as appraised.    Awards
for most of the major contracts have been made and equipment delivery has
begun. However, due to the deteriorated condition of the buildings in one of
the nine ginneries to be rehabilitated and the unavailability of additional
power for another ginnery, two other ginneries have been substituted and the
project description was amended accordingly in November 1975.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There were initial delays but following appointment in November 1974
of a new Coordinator and Executive Director, progress on the construction of
clinics has been reasonably satisfactory. The Consultant Architects have
produced a procedures guide, and design guidelines; executive architects have
been appointed for detailed design of the health clinics, and the family plan-
ning activities are underway. Sites have been selected and acquired; construc-
tion contracts are being awarded, and construction on some sites has started.
Progress on the program components of the project, which was slow, is now
expected to improve, and some are underway.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of
June 24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The general contractor has been appointed and work on implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily. The fertilizer sector study began in November
1975. The revised estimates of the cost of equipment and civil works showed
a cost overrun of some $30 million including $23 million in foreign exchange
costs. The other lenders indicated that they would make available the neces-
sary additional foreign exchange funds.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 21, 1976 (Credit) and
December 21, 1976 (Loan).
The bulk of the procurement actions have been completed and disburse-
ments are proceeding. One of the six surveys of industrial subsectors has
been completed and contract awards have been approved for three others.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
No Bank funds have yet been disbursed, since the Canal Authority
wished first to use lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to
date on project implementation has been good. Bid documents for items to
be financed by the Bank are now being prepared, and consultants have been
selected to carry out a study of the enlargement of the canal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Bids for cement manufacturing equipment were opened according to
schedule on February 1, 1975. Consultants assisted in bid evaluation, and
the contract for the Bank-financed cement manufacturing equipment was awarded
in August 1975 some three months behind schedule. Bids for the electrical
equipment to be financed by the Arab Fund have been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
About half of the contracts for equipment have been placed, bids
for a further 40 percent have been received, and procurement arrangements
are underway for the remainder. Consultants began work on the national
transport sector survey in April 1976.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Contract awards are being made for cables and bids for telex equip-
ment have been invited, both several months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Bank of Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The first sub-projects have been approved for financing under the
project and disbursements have begun.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19, 1976;
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Steps are being taken to commence project implementation.
June 9, 1976



ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT - TEXTILES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:       Misr Fine Spinning and Weaving Company Kafr El Dawar
(KED) and Misr El Beida Dyers (EB)
Purpose:             To assist in financing the foreign exchange costs of
replacing obsolete equipment and expanding production of
KED and EB.
Amount:              US$52.0 million
Terms:               15 years, including 4 years of grace, at 8.85 percent per
annum.
Onlending Terms:     US$25.8 million and US$24.9 of the loan proceeds will be
onlent to KED and to EB, respectively, at 10 percent per
annum and for the same repayment terms as those of the
loan.   KED and EB will bear the foreign exchange risks.
Project              The proposed project consists of the following:
Description:
1.   The KED subproject would add about 78,000 spindles and
900 looms which would help to increase the company s
manufacturing capacity of fine cotton and polyester
cotton fabrics by 16.5 and 10.1 million linear meters
respectively. About 70 percent of the cotton fabrics
output resulting from the project, as well as all the
cotton yarn not used in weaving will be exported.    At
maximum projected efficiency (90 percent) of the new
facilities, KED's annual manufacturing capacity for
yarn would be about 27,000 tons and for fabrics about
134 million linear meters, as against 21,000 tons and
107 million linear meters, respectively, at present.
2.   The EB subproject would expand the company's convert-
ing capacity by 43 million meters of fabric and 1,550
tons of yarn and, in addition, replace obsolete equip-
ment for converting 30 million meters of fabric and 500
tons of yarn. The EB subproject also includes expansion



ANNEX III
Page 2
of the caustic soda recovery and fabric coating opera-
tions. At maximum projected efficiency (90 percent)
of the new facilities, EB's capacity for fabric con-
verting would be increased to about 178 linear mil-
lion meters and for yarn converting to about 2,800
tons per annum, respectively, as against 135 linear
meters and 1,250 tons at present;
3.   Provision of technical assistance and training
to KED's and EB's personnel;
4.   Provision of training abroad of technicians
and supervisors from the Egyptian textile sector;
5.   Provision of technical assistance for the prep-
aration of a follow-up textile project; and
6.   Establishment of policies, an action program and
institutional measures designed to revitalize ex-
ports to convertible currency areas.
Estimated Project
Cost:
Local Foreign Total Bank Financing
of Foreign Costs
(in US$ million)
Equipment and Spares
KED Spinning                                -      27.5    27.5          -
KED Weaving                                 -      16.6    16.6        16.6
EB Finishing                                -      16.4    16.4        16.4
Sub-Total                              -      60.5   60.5         33.0
Freight, insurance                          -       6.0     6.0         4.6
Local transport                            1.6       -      1.6          -
Civil works and erection                  15.2      5.7    20.9         4.0
Technical assistance & training            0.1      0.3     0.4         0.3
Total Base Cost                      16.9     72.5    89.4        41.9
Contingencies
Physical and Price Escalation            3.9     13.1    17.0         6.1
Sub-Total                            20.8     85.6  106.4         48.0
Working Capital                           26.3      6.5    32.8         2.7
Sectoral Technical Assistance               -       1.3     1.3         1.3
and Training
Total Costs                               47.1     93.4   140.5        52.0
Interest during construction               1.0     11.7    12.7          -
Total Financing Required                  48.1    105.1   153.2        52.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:
% of
Local    Foreign     Total    Total
IBRD                              -        52.0      52.0     34.0
Arab Fund                         -        34.5      34.5      22.0
Government, KED and EB          48.1       18.6      66.7     44.0
Total                      48.1      105.1     153.2      100
Estimated
Disbursements:
Amount in US Dollar
Calendar Years                Annual   Cumulative
1977                       31.0       31.0
1978                       16.0       47.0
1979                        5.0       52.0
Project Execution:   KED and EB, with the assistance of a consulting firm as
Technical Advisor will be responsible for the project
execution. Machinery suppliers will provide technical
assistance during project implementation. Civil en-
gineering construction and plant erection will be
carried out by KED and EB and/or other Egyptian firms.
Procurement:         Goods and services to be financed under the proposed loan
would be procured through international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, except for
(i) miscellaneous small items costing less than US$100,000
equivalent but not exceeding the aggregate amount of US$1.0
million for each company; these items may be purchased
through international shopping on the basis of suitability,
availability and price considerations following approval
by the Bank of the list of items involved; (ii) proprietary
items necessary for repair of the existing equipment
and items in limited supply which are critical to the
timely completion of the project and whose aggregate cost
is estimated not to exceed US$2 million for KED and US$1
million for EB; and (iii) polyester fibers and yarn,
dyestuffs, chemicals and construction materials; these
items may be procured through international shopping on
the basis of at least 3 quotations from qualified foreign
suppliers approved by the Bank. If KED and EB choose to
procure construction materials on the basis of inter-
national competivive bidding, domestic suppliers would be
allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the actual customs
duty, whichever is lower.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Consultants:         To be appointed, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Selection of Consultants, for assistance in project
implementation, training, and assistance in export
promotion.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:          22 percent.
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 1131-EGT






Af   D  T i   fE  R  P  A  N  f  A  N  S   A
Testile FaJctories  /9.j>           j  ; s 
M Are roads 
Cr~~~~~~~~~~~~Ity .   E l Fly<gf} 
Wadis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
--- ntenrrationrl boundor en  & \/        -2! '&X    b  eir
ARABS- REPBL OF EGYPT
t5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I 5Ol ,5.; - is  *,w     - S4;,:-we5
O,pty ~ ~ ~ ~   5 flor...,  t-iXit, o,  _ii .*
WO_548r. e .Fdcti,  '  tOers
C M . ,( A             -                 ;
do* 0 Cares or to.ns ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s5
-SU Internationul ioun 2I                           ,,s
q ;.5f:---x---'.'---------
0~~~             ,1 .Mi-,n'ya'                       Z 
^.6.a,~~                    ~~~~ 6? So       ,/o  ,  A     "
_2r ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ KILOM'."' ET'ERS'''0 0: .. 
jARAB REPUE LIC O   EGP p ;s            yz    r  s   ,'o, 8 
< i   I  >   '\_ail        '__E  CfX      n  i>, '1.  Ze,._"--'' ,_ "~~~~~~~~~5
I I--f S- ---_                                            =  : ;-- ---



