CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1292 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Textile Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MISR FINE SPINNING AND WEAVING
COMPANY KAFR EL DAWAR
Dated September 20, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and MISR FINE SPINNING AND WEAVING CCMPANY KAFR EL DAWAR
(hereinafter called KED).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-two
million dollars ($52,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that KED agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund for
Social and Economic Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount equiv-
alent to ten million Kuwaiti Dinars (KD 10,000,000) to assist in
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Arab Fund;
(C) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
KED, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to KED on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS KED, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the unit established within KED
pursuant to its Chairman's decision dated February 7, 1976 for
the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project; and
(b) "Completion Date" means the date on which the facilities
included in Part A of the Project have, during a period of sixty
consecutive days, operated at two-thirds of their productive capac-
ity.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) KED shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, KED shall use its best efforts to obtain credit
to finance the cost of goods, works and services required for
Part A of the Project and not financed under the Loan Agreement,
the Arab Fund Loan Agreement or out of KED's own resources, such
credit to be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
KED.
Section 2.02. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the
Project, KED shall maintain the Project Unit and shall provide it
with managerial and technical staff in adequate numbers employed
on a full-time basis.
Section 2.03. In order to assist KED's Project Unit in the
(i) drafting of detailed engineering specifications, (ii) evaluation
of bids and (iii) provision of management and technical assistance
to start the facilities added under Part A of the Project and to
integrate them into existing facilities, KED shall employ engineer-
ing consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedile 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) KED undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by KED
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, KED shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) KED shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) KED: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use there-
of in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon


﻿-6-
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in Part A of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) KED shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of KED and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. KED shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, KED shall not take or corcur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) KED shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) KED shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by KED of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.09. KED shall take all measures necessary t3 ensure
that the executic.. and operation of Part A of the Project are car-
ried out with due regard to the safeguarding of the environment.
To that end, KED shall inter alia install, and thereafter maintain
at all times, adequate pollution control facilities satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KED
Section 3.01. KED shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on the operations of the facilities provided under Part A
of the Project and its other operations, in accordance with appro-
priate financial, engineering and industrial practices, and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. KED shall:
(a) at all times take all steps which are necessary to
maintain its existence, and its right to carry on operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other
properties and all rights, powers, and privileges which are nec-
essary or usefiui in the carrying out of Part A of the Project or
in the conduct of its business;
(b) at all times properly operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and promptly make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appro-
priate engineering practices; and
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.


﻿99
-9-
Section 3.03. KED shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. KED shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. KED shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
renort of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of KED and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) KED shall take all such action within its
power as shall be necessary to maintain a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of at least 1.5:1.


﻿- 11 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months less the reasonable pro-
vision for bad debts, inventories convertible to
saleable goods within twelve months, and all other
assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into
cash.
(ii) "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, income
taxes, dividends, bonuses, loan maturities, interest
and all other liabilities which would be due and
payable or could be called for payment within
twelve months.
(iii) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing rate
of exchange as published by the Central Bank of
Egypt.
Section 4.04. (a) KED shall not, without the prior concurrence
of the Bank, undertake, prior to the Completion Date, any capital
investment (other than Part A of the Project and normal maintenance
and renewal of equipment) exceeding in cost, in any one fiscal
year, the equivalent of two million five hundred thousand dollars
(t2,500,000).


﻿- 12 -
(b) KED shall not, without the prior concurrence of the Bank,
incur, after the Completion Date, any debt if KED's debt/equity
ratio does, or would as a result of such incurrence, exceed 60:40.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of KED thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify KED of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6145   (wUI)
For KED:
Misr Fine Spinning and
Weaving Company
Kafr el Dawar
Egypt


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:               Telex:
KED
4092
KAFR EL DAWAR
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KED may be taken or executed by its Chairman
of the Board or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. KED shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of KED, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by KED pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 16-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
MISR FINE SPINNING AND WEAVING
COMPANY KAFR EL DAWAR
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less, included in a list which shall have been approved
by the Bank, may be purchased by KED from reliable foreign suppliers
after having obtained price quotations from at least three such
suppliers on the basis of suitability, availability, and price
considerations; the aggregate cost of such items shall not exceed
the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.   Items required for repair of KED's existing equipment and
items of limited availability where timely supply is critical to
the efficient execution of Part A of the Project, estimated to cost
in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than $2,000,000, may be
procured by KED on the basis of prices negotiated after solicitation
of quotations from a list of qualified foreign suppliers which shall
have been approved by the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
3.   Polyester fibers, yarn and construction materials may be pro-
cured by KED through international shopping on the basis of at
least 3 quotations from qualified foreign suppliers who shall have
been approved by the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Construction Materials
Subject to International Competitive Bidding; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of construction of materials: (i) bidders shall be required
to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
and (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Egypt may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of KED and the Bank that the manufacturing


﻿- 19 -
cost of such goods includes a value added in Egypt
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 20 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   KED shall, before initiating procurement of equipment, con-
struction materials, polyester fibers and yarn, including the pre-
paration of the list of suppliers, inform the Bank in detail of
the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of bidders or solicited suppliers, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant, shall be furnished by KED to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and KED shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid, quotations, proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, KED shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a de-
scription of the advertising procedures to be fcllowed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 21 -
(b) After bids or quotations have been received and evalu-
ated, KED shall, before a final decision on the award is made, in-
form the Bank of the name of the bidder or solicited supplier to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time 'or its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids or quotations received, to-
gether with the recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform KED and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids or quotations were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
KED shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids or quotations, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the


﻿- 22 -
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform KED and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   The Central Bank of Egypt's rates of exchange will be the rates
used for bid comparison purposes.
0


