wI
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1292 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Textile Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MISR EL BEIDA DYERS
Dated September 20, 1976


﻿I
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and MISR EL BEIDA DYERS (hereinafter called EB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-two million
dollars ($52,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that EB agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
EB, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to EB on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS EB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the unit established within EB pur-
suant to its Chairman's decision dated February 7, 1976 for the
purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project; and
(b) "Completion Date" means the date on which the facilities
included in Part B of the Project have, during a period of sixty
consecutive days, operated at two-thirds of their productive capa-
city.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EB shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, EB shall use its best efforts to obtain credit
to finance the cost of goods, works and services required for
Part B of the Project and not financed under the Loan Agreement
or out of EB's own resources, such credit to be on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and EB.
Section 2.02. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the
Project, EB shall maintain the Project Unit and shall provide it
with managerial and technical staff in adequate numbers employed
on a full-time basis.
Section 2.03. In order to assist EB's Project Unit in the
(i) drafting of detailed engineering specifications, (ii) evalua-
tion of bids and (iii) provision of management and technical assis-
tance to start the facilities added under Part B of the Project
and to integrate them into existing facilities, EB shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) EB undertakes to insure, or make adeq,ate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by EB
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, EB shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) EB shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Part B
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) EB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use
thereof in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction


﻿-5-
sites included in Part B of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) EB shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of EB and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. EB shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, EB shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) EB shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other mat-
ters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) EB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part B
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by EB of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.09. EB shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the execution and operation of Part B of the Etoject are car-
ried out with due regard to the safeguarding of the environment.
To that end, EB shall inter alia install, and thereafter maintain
at all times, adequate pollution control facilities satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EB
Section 3.01. EB shall at all times manage its affairs, main-
tain its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry
on the operations of the facilities provided under Part B of the
Project and its other operations, in accordance with appropriate
financial, engineering and industrial practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. EB shall:
(a) at all times take all steps which are necessary to main-
tain its existence and its right to carry on operations and to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other prop-
erties and all rights, powers, and privileges which are necessary
or useful in the carrying out of Part B of the Project or in the
conduct of its business;
(b) at all times properly operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and promptly make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appro-
priate engineering practices; and
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets which shall be required for the effi-
cient operation of its business and undertaking.
01


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. EB shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.


﻿wI
-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EB shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. EB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of EB and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) EB shall, not later than six months after
the date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank, submit to the Bank for review a detailed study of
EB's present and projected future liquidity position under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank and EB.
(b) EB shall take all such action within its power as shall
be necessary to maintain a ratio of current assets to current lia-
bilities of at least 1.5:1.


﻿- 10 -
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months less reasonable provisions
for bad debts, inventories convertible to saleable
goods within twelve months, and all other assets
which could, in the ordinary course of business,
be converted within twelve months into cash.
(ii) "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, income
taxes, dividends, bonuses, loan maturities, inter-
est and all other liabilities which would be due
and payable or could be called for payment within
twelve months.
(iii) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing rate
of exchange as published by the Central Bank of
Egypt.
Section 4.04. (a) EB shall not, without the prior concurrence
of the Bank, undertake, prior to the Completion Date, any capital
investment (other than the Project and normal maintenance and re-
newal of equipment) exceeding in cost, in any one fiscal year, the
equivalent of two million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000).


﻿- 11 -
(b) EB shall not, without the prior concurrence of the Bank,
incur after the Completion Date, any debt if EB's debt/equity ratio
does, or would as a result of such incurrence, exceed 60:40.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of EB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall term-
inate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify EB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For EB:
Misr El Beida Dyers
Kafr El Dawar
Egypt
Cable address:                Telex: EB
EB
4068
KAFR EL DAWAR


﻿- 14-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EB may be taken or executed by its Chairman
of the Board or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. EB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of EB, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by EB pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
MISR EL BEIDA DYERS
By /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less, included in a list which shall have been approved
by the Bank, may be purchased by EB from reliable foreign suppliers
after having obtained price quotations from at least three such
suppliers on the basis of suitability, availability and price con-
siderations; the aggregate cost of such items shall not exceed
the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.   Items required for repair of EB's existing equipment and
items of limited availability whose timely supply is critical for
the efficient execution of Part B of the Project, estimated to
cost in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than $1,000,000,
may be procured by EB on the basis of prices negotiated after sol-
icitation of quotations from a list of qualified foreign suppliers
which shall have been approved by the Bank.


﻿- 17-
3.   Dyestuffs, chemicals and construction materials may be pro-
cured by EB through international shopping on the basis of at
least 3 quotations from qualified foreign suppliers who shall have
been approved by the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Construction Materials
Subject to International Competitive Bidding; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of construction materials: (i) bidders shall be required
to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
and (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Egypt may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids vill be classified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿- 18 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of EB and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in Egypt
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bie rrice
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowcst evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would h4re to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such


﻿- 19 -
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   EB shall, before initiating procurement of equipment, con-
struction materials, dyestuffs and chemicals, including the pre-
paration of the list of suppliers, inform the Bank in detail of
the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of bidders or solicited suppliers, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant, shall be furnished by EB to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and EB shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid, quotations, proposed awards
and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, EB shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the spe-
cifications and other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,


﻿- 20 -
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or proce-
dures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids or quotations have been received and evalu-
ated, EB shall, before a final decision on the award is made, in-
form the Bank of the name of the bidder or solicited supplier to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids or quotations received, to-
gether with the recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform EB and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids or quotations were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, EB
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior


﻿- 21 -
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids or quotations, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform EB and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   The Central Bank of Egypt's rates of exchange will be the
rates used for bid comparison purposes.


