                                     Document of
                               The World Bank
                      International Development Association


                                                              Report No: ICR2925



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-40270/H1410)



                                        ON

                                     CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.44 MILLION
                      (US$41.05 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

              FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                     FOR AN

        ETHIOPIA/NILE BASIN INITIATIVE POWER EXPORT PROJECT:
                  ETHIOPIA-SUDAN INTERCONNECTOR




                             DECEMBER 23, 2013




Energy Practice 1
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCE2
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2013)

                     Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
                         ETB18.7325 = US$1
                          US$1.5039 = SDR 1

                    GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                         JULY 8–JULY 7

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB    African Development Bank
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CA      Construction Agreement between EEPCo and NEC (later SETCO)
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
EAPP    East Africa Power Pool
EEPCo   Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP     Environmental Management Plan for the Project, dated January 2007
EMU     EEPCo’s Environmental Monitoring Unit
ENSAP   Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program
ENTRO   Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office
ESIA    Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ETB     Ethiopian Birr
FA      Fiduciary Assessment
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
FY      EEPCo’s fiscal year, beginning July 8 and ending July 7
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GoE     Government of Ethiopia
GoS     Government of Sudan
GTP     Growth and Transformation Plan
ICAS    Interim Country Assistance Strategy
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IDEN    Integrated Development of Eastern Nile
ISR     Implementation Status Report
JIC     Joint Interconnection Committee
JSC     Joint Steering Committee
LC      Letter of Credit
LDs     Liquidation Damages

                                   ii
LDC      Load Dispatch Center
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MoWE     Ministry of Water and Energy
MW       Megawatt
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NBI      Nile Basin Initiative
NBTF     Nile Basin Trust Fund
NEC      National Electric Corporation, Sudan’s power utility renamed SETCO
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
OMA      Operation and Maintenance Agreement between EEPCo and NEC
OPGW     Optical Ground Wires
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAPs     Project-Affected Peoples
PASDEP   Plan for Accelerated and Sustainable Development to End Poverty
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPA      Power Purchase Agreement
PSPO     Power System Planning Office
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan for the Project, dated January 2007
SDPRP    Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
SETCO    Sudanese Electricity Transmission Co. Ltd
US$      United States Dollar




            Vice President:          Makhtar Diop
            Country Director:        Guang Zhe Chen
            Sector Manager:          Lucio Monari
            Project Team Leader:     Issa Diaw
            ICR Team Leader:         Srilata Kammila
            ICR Primary Author:      Srilata Kammila

                                    iii
iv
           FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
      ETHIOPIA/NILE BASIN INITIATIVE POWER EXPORT PROJECT:
                ETHIOPIA-SUDAN INTERCONNECTOR

                                        CONTENTS

DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISR
H. Restructuring (if any)
I. Disbursement Profile
1.   Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design                    1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                      7
3.   Assessment of Outcomes                                                 17
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              24
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            26
6.   Lessons Learned                                                        30
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   32
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing                                        33
Annex 2: Outputs by Component                                               34
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis                                    35
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes      41
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR             44
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents                                       52
Annex 7: MAP                                                                53




                                             v
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                               Ethiopia/Nile Basin
Country:           Ethiopia              Project Name:         Initiative: Ethiopia-
                                                               Sudan Interconnector
Project ID:        P074011               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-43750
ICR Date:          12/23/2013            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                               FEDERAL
                                                               DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument: SIL                  Borrower:
                                                               REPUBLIC OF
                                                               ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                    SDR 26.44M          Disbursed Amount: SDR 24.37M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     SDR 26.44M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Water and Energy; Ethiopian Electric Power
Corporation
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                     Revised/Actual
    Process            Date         Process          Original Date
                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:   05/19/2004    Effectiveness:        07/31/2008       07/31/2008
                                                                       12/16/2011
Appraisal:        03/08/2007    Restructuring(s):          -           06/14/2012

                                Mid-term
Approval:         12/20/2007                          04/20/2012       04/20/2012
                                Review:
                                Closing:              12/31/2011       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Low
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Satisfactory       Government:        Satisfactory
Quality of           Satisfactory       Implementing       Moderately

                                       vi
Supervision:                             Agency/Agencies:    Satisfactory
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower Moderately
                       Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:        Satisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                        QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                            Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                 None
                                         (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                   Quality of
                         No                                 None
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity      100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness            67                 67
Regional integration                              33                 33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                 At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:        Makhtar Diop                    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:      Guang Zhe Chen                  Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:        Lucio Monari                    Subramaniam V. Iyer
Project Team Leader:   Issa Diaw                       Philippe Charles Benoit
ICR Team Leader:       Srilata Kammila
ICR Primary Author:    Srilata Kammila

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document - PAD)

The Project’s development objective was to promote Ethiopia’s power export revenue
generation capacity through the development of regional trade opportunities in the
context of the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) regional effort.




                                            vii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
Indicator         Baseline Value
                                            approval            Target         Completion or
                                            documents)          Values         Target Years
                  Initiation of export of low-cost, environmentally friendly electricity by Ethiopia
Indicator 1:
                  to Sudan
Value
(quantitative or 0                           1000 GWh                         175.31 GWh
qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                     12/31/2011                       06/30/2013
                 Achievement: 17.5 percent. The substantially lower achievement than planned
                 resulted from a lower volume of exports during a shorter period of time than
                 initially envisaged, prior to the Project’s completion. The basis for the original
Comments         export target was a two-year time period, from the commissioning of the
(incl. %         interconnection until project closing. The actual value achieved at the revised
achievement) project closing—17.5 percent of the target—is based on an export period of five
                 months and volumes below the PPA agreed levels. The shorter time period for
                 exports was a result of implementation delays, primarily from a “Force Majeure”
                 situation.
Indicator 2:     Increased foreign exchange
Value
(quantitative or 0                           US$50 million                    US$8.76 million
qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                     12/31/2011                       06/30/2013
Comments
                 Achievement: 17.5 percent. The lower export earnings resulted from the reduced
(incl. %
                 volume of exports, as explained in the comments on Indicator 1.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally            Actual Value
                                           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
Indicator         Baseline Value
                                           approval            Target          Completion or
                                           documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1:      Kilometers (km) of transmission line erected
Value
(quantitative     0                         296.5 km                           296.5 km
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/20/2007                12/31/2011                      11/08/2011
Comments          Achievement: 100 percent. The Gondar-Shehedi and Shehedi-Metema sections
(incl. %          of the transmission line were completed in August 2010. The Bahir Dar–Gondar

                                                viii
achievement)         section was completed in June 2011. The full transmission line was
                     commissioned in November 2011.
Indicator 2:         Number of substations upgraded
Value
(quantitative   0                           3                                 3
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                    12/31/2011                        06/30/2013
                Achievement: 100 percent. All equipment—except the telecommunications
Comments
                equipment and one shunt reactor at Gondar substation—was delivered, installed,
(incl. %
                and commissioned by August 2011. The installation and testing of the remaining
achievement)
                equipment and the substations were complete by project closing.
Indicator 3:    Installation of the telecommunications system
Value
(quantitative   0                           Completed                         Completed
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                    12/31/2011                        06/30/2013
Comments        Achievement: 100 percent. The installation of the telecommunications system
(incl. %        was completed by project closing. (See related comment on Indicator 2 above.)
achievement)
Indicator 4:    Completion of the transmission line in Sudan
Value
(quantitative   0                           Completed                         Completed
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                    12/31/2011                        06/30/2010
Comments
                Achievement: 100 percent. The transmission line in Sudan was completed, as
(incl. %
                planned, by June 2010.
achievement)
                Training of Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo) staff in areas relating
Indicator 5:
                to operation of the interconnection
Value
(quantitative   0                           Completed                         Partially completed
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                    12/31/2011                        06/30/2013
                                            1
                Achievement: 30 percent. The Supervision Engineer submitted the “Capacity
                Building and Training Needs Assessment Report” in February 2010. The field
Comments
                training of the counterpart EEPCo staff took place during the consultant’s tenure.
(incl. %
                However, the consultant contract ended in December 2010, as originally planned,
achievement)
                with no extension to account for implementation delays. As a result, planned
                field and overseas training remained incomplete at project closing.
                Progress in implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and
Indicator 6:
                the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Value
(quantitative   0                           Completed                         Completed
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2007                    12/31/2011                        06/30/2013



1
    Estimation based on the key tasks comprising training of counterpart staff, field, and overseas trainings.

                                                        ix
Comments       Achievement: 100 percent. EEPCo successfully implemented the EMP and RAP
(incl. %       by Project closing. The RAP resulted in the payment of US$1.39 million in
achievement)   compensation to the 4,490 people whom the project affected.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                               IP            Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (US$ millions)
 1    05/14/2008    Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              0.00
 2    12/19/2008    Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              0.00
 3    06/23/2009    Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              6.67
 4    12/01/2009    Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              16.87
 5    06/02/2010    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   24.96
 6    03/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   31.96
 7    12/13/2011    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   35.02
 8    07/09/2012    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   36.61
 9    03/19/2013    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   37.26

H. Restructuring (if any)

               Board         ISR Ratings at
              Approved       Restructuring           Amount Disbursed         Reason for
Restructuring
                PDO                                  at Restructuring in Restructuring & Key
   Date(s)
               Change        DO          IP             US$ millions       Changes Made

                                                                       Extension of project
12/16/2011         N         MS         MS             35.02           closing date to June
                                                                       30, 2012.
                                                                       Extension of project
06/14/2012
                   N         MS         MS             36.61           closing date to June
                                                                       30, 2013.




                                              x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) and Regional Power Trade in East Africa

1.      The Project took place within a framework of cooperation established for the use
of the East Africa region’s water and power resources. At the time of the Project’s
appraisal (March 2007), the region’s substantial resources for power production and
infrastructure for trade were largely undeveloped. Ethiopia and Sudan were member
countries of the NBI, established in 1999 as a partnership of riparian states of the Nile2
“to achieve sustainable socio-economic development through equitable utilization of and
benefit from the common Nile Basin water resources.” 3 NBI was promoting the
development of a broader regional power market. Also, feasibility studies were under
way within the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP) 4 for the development
of new generation sites and a regional transmission system connecting the countries
located on the Eastern Nile. There was also increasing coordination among Eastern
African countries for power system development under the proposed Eastern Africa
Power Pool (EAPP), with proposed transmission systems envisaged between Ethiopia–
Kenya and potential for expansion to Uganda, Tanzania, and Nile Equatorial Lakes
countries. In this context, Ethiopia and Sudan were exploring investments to expand
power trade and coordinate power system development.

Country and Sector Background: Ethiopia and Sudan

Ethiopia

2.     At the time of the appraisal, 39 percent of Ethiopia’s population lived below the
poverty line. In 2002, the government of Ethiopia (GoE) had developed the Sustainable
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP). This program had resulted in
important gains in human development indicators, transport, investment climate, and
food security. The GoE was implementing its second poverty reduction strategy, the Plan



2
  The Member States of the NBI include Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya,
Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda. Eritrea is an observer.
3
  The NBI has been divided into two sub-groupings: the Eastern Nile and the Nile Equatorial Lakes sub-
region. The World Bank was asked to participate in the initiative; through the multi-donor Nile Basin Trust
Fund (NBTF), established in 2003, the Bank supported the Shared Vision Program to build cooperation
and capacity across the basin; it also sponsored the Subsidiary Action Programs, to identify and prepare
investments at the sub-basin level.
4
  The Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP) supports cooperative development among the
Eastern Nile countries with the aim of reducing poverty in the region, advancing economic growth, and
reversing environmental degradation. In 2001, the Eastern Nile countries identified their first joint
investment project, the Integrated Development of Eastern Nile (IDEN), consisting of a series of seven sub-
projects, including one related to power development and interconnection.



                                                    1
for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty (PASDEP), covering the
period 2005/06–2009/10. This strategy focused on the commercialization of agriculture
and major improvements in key infrastructure for growth—particularly roads, irrigation,
and energy—as the means for Ethiopia to attain its Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). The Bank’s Interim Country Assistance Strategy (ICAS) of May 2006 also
emphasized the development of critical economic infrastructure, as was reflected in the
Project.

3.      Biomass energy, primarily for subsistence, dominated Ethiopia’s energy sector.
Modern forms of energy—such as electricity and LPG, among others—accounted for less
than 10 percent of the energy mix. The limited supply of modern energy sources and their
high cost relative to biomass propagated this dependence. The widespread use of biomass
had led to extensive deforestation. Lack of electricity, particularly in rural areas, had
limited opportunities for increasing income and improving the quality of life. Therefore,
the GoE committed to programs aimed at expanding electricity access and using biomass
more efficiently.

4.     The large fuel subsidies and the low tariff levels in the electricity sector
contributed to the fiscal pressures experienced by the GoE. The low tariff levels
constrained the ability of the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo), the state-
owned vertically integrated power utility, to expand the power system to meet demand. In
2005/06, electricity production had reached 2.9 TWh. It had grown at a high rate of 9.6
percent during the previous five years. Peak demand in 2005 was 513 MW and had
grown at a rate of 10.7 percent over the previous five years.

5.       Ethiopia is endowed with cheap hydro resources, with hydro installations at half
the cost of those in many neighboring countries. At the time of project appraisal, the
Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo) was building three hydropower plants
(Tekeze at 300 MW; Gilgel Gibe II at 420 MW; and Beles at 460 MW, which are all
currently commissioned). It also had plans to add more capacity over the coming 5 to 10
years. 5 This lumpiness in supply as demand gradually increased was expected to result in
an interim power surplus. The cost of variable energy supply for hydropower is about
US$0.04/kWh.

6.      EEPCo, at the time of project appraisal, had planned several interconnections
with a view to monetizing the power resources, providing markets for excess supply, and
gaining access to thermal generation in neighboring countries as a hedge against the risks
associated with hydropower dependence. Ethiopia envisioned a broad regional power
market and the Ethiopia–Djibouti interconnection was expected to be commissioned in
2009 as the first stage of the country’s power export program. The Ethiopia–Sudan
interconnector, with its anticipated commission (at the time of appraisal) in 2010,
represented the second stage in this program.




5
    Two other hydropower plants were close to financial closure: Gibe 3 (1897 MW) and Amerti (100MW).

                                                   2
Sudan

7.      The second civil war in Sudan (1983 to 2005) had damaged infrastructure and the
lack of security had constrained foreign investment. The result was widespread poverty
and a weakened economic base and infrastructure. By the time of project appraisal,
relative peace combined with oil revenues and increasing foreign investment had
contributed to strong macroeconomic performance. Access to foreign exchange had
increased through oil exports and foreign investment.

8.     At the time of appraisal, about 22 percent of the Sudanese population (5 million
people) had access to electricity, 57 percent of which lived in Khartoum. The existing
grid covered only nine out of the 26 states within the country. Total electricity production
amounted to 3.7 TWh/year. Thermal power, fueled by domestic oil, accounted for about
67 percent of power generated. Hydropower resources were under-utilized.

9.       The National Electric Corporation (NEC) was a vertically integrated, state-owned
utility at the time of appraisal. The sector was later unbundled in 2010 and the Sudanese
Electricity Transmission Company (SETCO) became NEC’s successor as the operator of
the transmission system and the implementing agency for interconnection with the
Ethiopian power system. The government of Sudan (GoS) was committed to increasing
generation, transmission, and distribution by several means, including expanding access
to electricity through national and independent grids and linking Sudan’s grid with those
of neighboring countries. The Project interconnected the national grids of Ethiopia and
Sudan.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

10.     The Project was in line with the Bank’s past efforts to support the development of
Ethiopia’s power sector, with particular attention to the monetization of the country’s
hydropower resources and the expansion of Ethiopia’s role in the regional power trade.
The World Bank had been assisting the GoE and EEPCo in the electricity sector
expansion plan focusing on: (i) least-cost, demand-driven system expansion; (ii)
integration of grid and off-grid electrification; (iii) programs to increase energy
efficiency; and (iv) increased financial resources for power-system expansion through
cost-reflective tariffs and mobilization of both public and private financing.

11.      The Bank was a key supporter of the NBI and a proponent of regional integration
of power systems in Africa. Through its support for the Project, the Bank saw an
opportunity to promote regional power trade and cooperation among the Nile countries.
The Project was among the first investments for Ethiopia and Sudan under the NBI. In
addition, the preparation and implementation—in line with World Bank safeguard
policies—of an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) relating to
activities in both Ethiopia and Sudan facilitated increased attention to the social and
environmental aspects of the interconnection.




                                             3
1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as
        approved)

12.    The PDO was to promote Ethiopia’s power export revenue generation capacity
through the development of regional trade opportunities in the context of the NBI
regional effort.

13.    To achieve this PDO, the Project financed the construction of a transmission line
between the towns of Bahir Dar and Metema, on the border with Sudan. This line would
connect the Ethiopian and Sudanese power systems to enable power trade between the
two countries. The interconnection was an initial step toward integrated regional planning
of power system development in Ethiopia and in other countries participating in the NBI
and the EAPP.

14.    The Project had two key output indicators: (i) completed construction of the 230
kV transmission line from Bahir Dar to Metema; and (ii) the completed substation
expansion and rehabilitation, as well as the telecommunications infrastructure. The
outcome indicators of the trade were to be: (i) the volume of power exports from Ethiopia
to Sudan; and (ii) the related revenues received by EEPCo from power sales to Sudan.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
      Indicators, along with reasons/justification

15.    The PDO and the key performance indicators remained unchanged throughout the
duration of the Project.

1.4   Main Beneficiaries

16.     The key beneficiaries include EEPCo in Ethiopia, NEC (later SETCO) in Sudan,
and the Sudanese consumers. 6 EEPCo would benefit in the form of export revenues from
the sale of surplus electricity to Sudan. In addition, the company’s predominantly hydro
system would benefit from being part of a larger power system, with significant thermal
generation, which would provide security of supply in periods of low rainfall. The NEC
would benefit from a significantly lower cost of power (US$0.05 per kWh for imported
power, compared to US$0.096 per kWh from power generated domestically) and
improved reliability of power supply.

17.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) also noted the global benefits related to
reduced greenhouse gas emissions through the substitution of thermal generation in
Sudan with hydropower generation exports from Ethiopia. The project explored the
inclusion of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) benefits; however, the absence of
appropriate CDM methodology prevented the Project from benefitting from CDM.


6
  The PAD did not formally designate direct and indirect beneficiaries in the section describing the PDO
and outcome indicators. The discussion of beneficiaries is based on the PDO and the Project’s analysis of
economic and financial costs and benefits.

                                                     4
1.5   Original Components (as approved)

18.    The Project consisted of two components: (i) construction of transmission
interconnection between the towns of Bahir Dar and Metema (at the Ethiopia/Sudan
border); and (ii) institutional strengthening and capacity building for regional
development.

19.     Component 1: Construction of transmission interconnection between the
towns of Bahir Dar and Metema (at the Ethiopia/Sudan border) (US$39.55 million).
This component consisted of the construction of a new transmission line, the expansion
of existing lines from single to double-circuit operation, and the expansion/upgrading of
existing sub-stations in Ethiopia. This infrastructure would allow Ethiopia to interconnect
with a parallel line being built on the Sudanese side, with the two lines to be linked at the
border towns of Metema (in Ethiopia) and Gallabat (in Sudan). Two construction
packages were designed for the infrastructure, one for the transmission line works and the
other for the substations’ upgrade, including the telecommunications system and
telecontrol equipment.

20.     Subcomponent A: Transmission Line Erection. There were two parts to this
subcomponent. The first was the expansion of the existing 260 km, single-circuit 230 kV
line linking Bahir Dar to Shehedi, which involved the construction of a second, single-
circuit transmission system from Bahir Dar to Gondar; as well as the construction of a
second line on the existing double-circuit tower system between Gondar and Shehedi.
The second part involved the construction of a new 36.5 km, high-voltage, double-circuit,
230/220 kV, three-phase alternating current (AC) transmission line linking Sehedi sub-
station to Metema at the border with Sudan. A turnkey contract would be used to build
the line according to international standards and guidelines.

21.    Subcomponent B: Substation Expansion and Rehabilitation. This
subcomponent consisted of extensions and/or additions to Bahir Dar, Gondar, and
Shehedi substations, including the addition of bays to connect the new transmission lines.
The substations’ upgrade did not require additional land and was restricted to established
EEPCo premises.

22.    Subcomponent C: Fiber Optics Telecommunications System and Supervisory
Control and Telecontrol equipment. This subcomponent was designed to provide a
monitoring and control system to facilitate effective power trade and ensure reliable
operation of the interconnector.

23.     Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for
Regional Development (IDA US$3.55 million). This component would: (i) facilitate
effective construction and operation of the transmission infrastructure, including the
establishment of the operating rules for the interconnection, the training of EEPCo staff
in power system planning and design, and the operation and regulation of the
interconnected system; (ii) ensure effective implementation of the environmental and
social plans; and (iii) build institutional and human capacity to establish institutional,

                                             5
technical, and commercial mechanisms for regional power trade. The component
included two complementary sub-components.

24.     Subcomponent A: Support to EEPCo for the implementation and operation
of the interconnector. This component provided for hiring a Supervision Engineer to
oversee the construction works for transmission lines and related facilities and to train
local crews responsible for operations and maintenance (O&M); it additionally provided
for the strengthening of EEPCo’s Environmental and Social Management Unit (EMU) to
implement the Project’s Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP).

25.     Subcomponent B: Supporting Ethiopia’s role as a key power exporter in the
region. This subcomponent aimed to strengthen the training program for operation of the
Load Dispatch Center. (LDC) The proposed training focused on issues related to cross-
border power trade, building capacity in defining and preparing trade arrangements along
with technical and safety guidelines, and promoting generation projects for regional
export, including identification of potential financiers.

1.6   Revised Components

26.    The original components were not changed throughout the project period.

1.7   Other significant changes

27.     The Project financed substation expansion and rehabilitation, including
installation of telecommunications systems, and the contract was signed on December 18,
2008 with an Iranian contractor. At the time of contract signing, the economic sanctions
against Iran were in place. The sanctions did not allow the contractor to open a bank
account, which would in turn allow EEPCo to obtain a Letter of Credit in favor of the
contractor. As a consequence, EEPCo could not make foreign currency payments to the
contractor and the substation works were considerably delayed.

28.    The Project was restructured twice, extending the closing date by a total of 18
months. The first restructuring, dated December 16, 2011, extended the project closing
date by six months, ending June 30, 2012. The extension was made to allow sufficient
time for the completion of construction activities delayed due to the inability to transfer
payments to the Iranian contractor hired for the construction of the substation. In
November 2011, EEPCo facilitated the opening of a foreign currency account for
payment transfers to the contractor. Given the contractor’s assurance that the works
would be completed by March 2012, EEPCo explicitly asked the Bank for only a six-
month extension, so that exports could resume without further delay. However, EEPCo
encountered difficulties when attempting to implement this payment method, as the
sanctions prevented payment transfers from the Iranian contractor to the equipment
vendors from third countries.




                                            6
29.      Therefore, a second restructuring, dated June 14, 2012, was necessary to allow for
the completion of works under a revised implementation plan involving direct contracting
with substation equipment manufacturers. As a consequence, the Project closing date was
extended for an additional 12 months to June 30, 2013. The targets were not revised to
reflect the short implementation period remaining to achieve the target indicator level. At
the time of the second restructuring, while it was still technically feasible (operating on
single circuit of the 200 MW capacity line) to reach the targets as indicated, the Bank
team recommended a revision to the outcome indicators as resolution on LDs and export
price was still pending. However, EEPCo did not agree to revise the targets down.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.   Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
30.    Project preparation and design were thorough and involved extensive background
analyses and alignment with country and sector strategies and priorities. Preparation and
support were continued from the time of the concept note’s approval in 2004, as technical
studies (feasibility study update in 2006), preparation of the ESIA (2006), and other
consultations were ongoing. The Project reflected key lessons learned from past projects
and the components were designed to address the key constraints and priorities in the
energy sector. However, the design of the outcome indicators and the target levels did not
adequately account for the political economy and contractual risks inherent in the Project.
These risks did materialize during project implementation and impacted the project
outcomes, as the planned mitigation measures did not fully address the risks.

31.     Soundness of background analysis: The Project’s preparation benefited from
several analytical studies and feasibility assessments, including those that were under
way within ENSAP (Power Trade Investment Program Study) and those specifically
carried out for the works in the two countries. The final feasibility study of the works for
the interconnection was done in 2006 (jointly financed by EEPCo and NEC) and
subsequently formed the basis for the procurement of the contracts for works in Ethiopia.
Some project preparation activities, such as the Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment (ESIA), were executed by other donors. Project preparation not only
included extensive consultations with stakeholders in Ethiopia but also coordination with
partners such as the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) on environmental
and social aspects of the Project under the broader cooperative framework.

32.     Assessment of the Project Design: The Project Design was simple and effective
and integrated well lessons learned from previous operations. The activities and
implementation arrangements were appropriate to achieving the Project’s objectives. The
Project was aligned with the Bank’s policy and sector dialogue with Ethiopia under the
CAS and the PASDEP. It complimented the Bank’s support to NBI and aligned with the
regional integration vision and efforts of the Eastern African countries. The project
design addressed the identified key characteristics, strengths, and constraints of the power
systems to be interconnected under the Project. For Ethiopia, these included energy
sector-driven fiscal pressures of large fuel subsidies and low tariffs, expansion of supply
and consumption, low-cost hydropower capacity, lumpiness in supply resulting in interim

                                             7
surplus, and risks and uncertainties of the hydrology. For Sudan, this included the need
for expanded supply, reliance on high-cost thermal generation, and increasing demand.
However, the design of the implementation timeline comprising two years of construction
and two years of operation (under the project timeline) did not incorporate flexibility or
a ”soft start” for the start of the exports. The duration and level of exports during the
project period was ambitious and contributed to lower achievements for the target
indicators. While the transmission line had the technical capacity for the anticipated level
of exports, contingency was not built in for the political economy and/or contractual risks.

33.    Project Objectives and Components: The PDO, as stated in the PAD, was to
promote Ethiopia's power export revenue generation capacity through the development of
regional trade opportunities in the context of the NBI regional effort. The project
components were in line with project objectives and successful implementation of the
interventions under the components would contribute to cross-border trade and enhanced
capacity for broader regional trade opportunities.

34.      The Project’s design reflected several lessons learned from past projects for
energy development. For instance, government commitment was recognized as critical to
the success of interconnections and the Project entailed strong support and engagement
from the governments of both Ethiopia and Sudan. The interconnection had regional
endorsement, particularly through ENSAP, an important factor for regional integration
investments. The Project also involved the development of legal, commercial, and
institutional frameworks (Power Purchase Agreement, Construction Agreement,
Operations and Maintenance Agreement, etc.), which are required for the sustainability of
power trade.

35.      The implementation arrangements included an effective combination of national
entities and joint committees and working groups. The implementing agency for the
Project was EEPCo, which set up an Ethiopia–Sudan Transmission Project Management
Unit (PMU). In Sudan, NEC (and later SETCO) was responsible for completion of the
grid extension on the Sudan side and coordinated activities through its PMU. A Joint
Steering Committee—composed of ministry representatives, utility management, and
project managers—was established to provide guidance and oversight for the Project.
ENTRO provided a common platform through the Power Coordination Unit for the
utilities in the two countries and functioned as a vehicle through which the Bank team
could monitor implementation of safeguards in the Sudan portion of the interconnection.

36.    The implementation framework and the underlying contractual agreements
provided a strong platform for commitment, leadership, and project oversight. The
implementation arrangements for the construction phase included project implementation
units headed by project managers and ad-hoc task forces responsible for specific tasks,
such as preparation of the Operation and Maintenance Agreement (OMA). The
arrangements for the operational phase, to begin after the commissioning of the
interconnection, consisted of the Joint Interconnection Committee (JIC) and the two
working groups: the Operations Working Group and the Planning Working Group. The
Operations Working Group was mandated with the coordination of matters related to the

                                             8
interconnection operation, while the Planning Working Group focused on longer-term
arrangements and coordination.

37.    Adequacy of government’s commitment. The GoE showed strong commitment to
the Project during preparation and effectively facilitated its design through the ongoing
national sector dialogue as well as the regional NBI context. The GoE showed strong
project ownership and committed to being part of the implementation arrangements
through active participation in the steering and interconnection committees. The GoS was
also strongly committed to the Project and remained engaged through the joint
committees.

38.    Adequacy of risk assessment. The risks inherent in project design were identified
during project preparation and reflected in the PAD. Some of the identified risks turned
out to have a significant impact on the Project’s implementation performance. The
following sections review the key risks and mitigation measures.

  i.   Unavailability of electricity supply from Ethiopia (hydrological, technical,
       contractual, and/or political reasons). The risk was assessed as low and to be
       mitigated by the diversity of supply in power system expansion planning,
       dialogue through NBI, and the anticipated contractual agreements, all of which
       would be conducive for trade. The contractual agreements, particularly the PPA
       and OMA, were not signed at the time of appraisal and the firm price of the PPA
       was still under negotiation. While the agreements were established during the
       project period, project implementation was stalled due to protracted contractual
       issues between SETCO and EEPCO, affecting electricity supply (please see
       paragraphs 43–45 below). Moreover, even if the price was established in the PPA
       at the time of appraisal, the issue of reopening the contract would not have been
       avoided, due to the negotiations initiated over liquidated damages. These issues
       underscore the fact that the contractual and political risks were substantial and
       that the role of the contractual framework in mitigating the risk of supply
       interruptions was overrated. Given this, a risk assessment of “Substantial” would
       have been more appropriate. This would have been consistent with the rating of
       the risk of “Breakdowns in PPA discussions and implementation” (discussed
       below).

 ii.   Delays and cost overruns occurred during construction of the transmission line.
       Given the project readiness and procurement actions during project preparation,
       this risk was adequately assessed as low at the time of appraisal. However,
       unforeseen circumstances in the form of economic sanctions against Iran resulted
       in the inability to pay the Iranian contractor for the substation works and led to
       significant delays in the completion of the project. Furthermore, delayed
       payments to Project-Affected Peoples (PAPs), customs delays on equipment, etc.,
       also resulted in transmission line construction delays (about eight months).




                                           9
 iii.   Weak operational capacity to coordinate cross-border trade. This risk was rightly
        assessed to be moderate, with the mitigation provided by the operating framework
        to be developed and the capacity building that the Project was to provide.

 iv.    Breakdowns in PPA discussions and implementation. Sudan’s claim for
        liquidation damages, Ethiopia’s claim of “force majeure”, and the pending
        agreement on the “interconnection operation date,” though resulting from
        unforeseen delays, reveal that the potential of implementation breakdown
        remained in spite of the signed contractual agreements. While Sudan was
        informed of the contractual issues with the Iranian firm and delays in
        commissioning, there were still coordination and communication challenges that
        delayed implementation progress. The countries did take action to resolve the
        issues of export interruptions and are continuing the dialogue to finalize the
        “interconnection operation date” and pending payments. Nevertheless, the
        political economy risks contributing to the reopening of the contractual
        negotiations and implementation delays should have been rated as “Substantial”.

  v.    Impact of the political situation in the two countries on the Project. This risk was
        adequately estimated as moderate and PAD highlights relevant mitigating factors
        that worked.

 vi.    Delays in the construction of the Sudanese portion of the line. The PAD identified
        the delay in completion of the grid extension on Sudan’s side as the one major
        risk for the Project. As noted in the PAD, the readiness of procurement and
        financing for the construction of Sudan’s portion of the interconnection ensured
        timely completion.

vii.    Lapses in Financial Management (FM) and Procurement Processes. This risk was
        adequately assessed as moderate. The procurement arrangements made in advance
        aided the progress on procurement for the Project, as expected. However, there
        were lapses in FM, with delays in reporting and subsequent audit qualifications
        that required a revised action plan from EEPCo.

viii.   Management of environmental and social issues. The project was designed to
        address the environmental and social aspects of the interconnection through the
        capacity building component in the context of the support provided by NBI and
        ENTRO. While there were some occupational health and safety, capacity, and
        flow of funds issues, the Project did effectively comply with safeguards.

2.2.    Implementation
39.     Overview. The overall implementation performance of the Project was
moderately satisfactory. The signing (April 2008) of the Construction Agreement between
EEPCo and NEC delayed the Project’s effectiveness by seven months. The project
restructuring in December 2011 and June 2012 extended its closing date for the
completion and operationalization of the power interconnection. Much of the
implementation delay, as explained in paragraphs 40–42 below, was beyond the control

                                            10
of either EEPCo or the Bank. The Project’s mid-term review, conducted in April 2012,
assessed the project status, explored measures to accelerate implementation, and noted
EEPCo’s request to extend the closing date to complete implementation. The mid-term
review was originally planned for 2009; however, work had just commenced (due to
unforeseen delays) in 2009 and thus a review at that time was deemed unproductive and
would not have yielded lessons. The task team undertook a supervision mission instead to
facilitate implementation. The project’s implementation progress had a satisfactory rating
in 2008 and 2009 but a moderately satisfactory rating from 2010 until its completion in
2013, primarily due to the delays in completion of the substations’ works.

40.     Transmission line construction. The transmission interconnection between the
towns of Bahir Dar and Metema (at the Ethiopia/Sudan border) was commissioned in
November 2011, more than a year later than planned at appraisal. The Gondar–Shehedi
and Shehedi–Metema sections were completed by August 2010, two months past the
original date at which operations were to begin (June 2010). The delay resulted primarily
from customs-clearance issues at the Port of Djibouti. In addition, there was an eight-
month delay in the completion of the Bahir Dar–Gondar section of the line, which was
completed in June 2011. The Bank had requested that EEPCo cease construction, pending
payment of outstanding compensation due PAPs by the district administration (woredas)
covering the area of the line section. While awaiting payment completion, EEPCo
switched construction to the other sections of the T-line. By the time the woredas
completed their payments and the construction activities on this section recommenced,
the rainy season had begun, impeding construction progress.

41.     Substation works. Economic sanctions imposed against Iran in early 2009 delayed
the effectiveness of the contract between EEPCo and Sunir-Co, an Iranian contractor, for
the construction of the substations. After effectiveness, the continued embargo made it
difficult to finalize the letter of credit (LC), stalling construction progress through
December 2011. EEPCo’s solution to the problem was to facilitate the opening of a
foreign-currency account in Ethiopia for direct payments to the company. Work resumed
and the contractors installed a shunt reactor at Shehedi. However, EEPCo eventually had
to stop payment again. Sunir-Co was unable to make payments to the equipment
manufacturers from its foreign currency account in Ethiopia, and the manufacturers
refused to ship equipment without receiving full payment.

42.     To proceed with the completion of the remaining works, in June 2012, EEPCo
and the Bank sought revised procurement arrangements that would allow direct
contracting with the equipment manufacturers. In the interim, the Sudanese counterpart
supplied the communications equipment for Shehedi in August 2012, which enabled the
start of power exports in November 2012. The substation works were finally completed
in June 2013, with the installation of the shunt reactor and the telecommunications
equipment. Overall, the economic sanctions delayed completion of the substations and
necessitated the two restructurings for project completion. To mitigate the impact of the
delay on the interconnection, the Bank team recommended that EEPCo enable the




                                           11
connection of the Gondar–Shehedi line to one of the Shehedi–Metema lines at the
Shehedi substation using available facilities 7 . However, coordination issues within
EEPCo and slow responsiveness to obtain all necessary communications equipment
prevented this alternate configuration. EEPCo opted to wait for the communications
equipment that NEC agreed to provide for the Shehedi substation.

43.     Contractual issues and export/payment interruptions. The contractual agreements
for the operation of the interconnection―the PPA and OMA―were signed, albeit with
some delays, on August 2009. However, given delays in the planned start of operations
(June 2010), EEPCo requested that SETCO defer commencement of the PPA and waive
the Liquidation Damages (LDs), claiming a “force majeure” event. In addition, as part of
its contractual negotiation regarding LDs, EEPCo and the Ministry of Water and Energy
(MoWE) invited Sudan to renegotiate the PPA in light of the higher price negotiated for
the Ethiopia–Djibouti interconnection (US$0.07/kWh).

44.     While deliberations continued on the contractual issues, the governments of
Ethiopia and Sudan decided to commence exports in September 2011. However,
continued delays in completion of the necessary substation works impeded the start of
operations. When the exports eventually began in November 2012, the volume of power
exports was below the PPA-established levels because the two parties were still
deliberating on the new contractual date for the start of exports. The take-or-pay terms
will be effective once both parties finalize the revised interconnection date.

45.     The two parties, since the end of 2012, have continued to negotiate the issue of
LDs and the requisite interconnection operation date. With an agreement pending on
these issues and SETCO’s refusal to pay for the power imported from November 2012 to
March 2013, EEPCo stopped exports between April 2013 and June 2013. However,
EEPCo and SETCO, through the joint steering and interconnection committees and the
government dialogue, addressed these issues jointly, and exports resumed in July 2013
with Sudan’s agreement to pay for the imported power to date. Since then, exports have
continued, but at a lower level than agreed in the PPA, based on Sudan’s demand. The
Bank has been informed that SETCO has begun making monthly installment payments
for the power imported between November 2012 and March 2013. Meetings of the
Steering Committee are planned for the end of 2013 to finalize the starting date of the
interconnection’s operations and the firm power volume agreed upon in the PPA is
expected to be exported thereafter.

46.     Supervision Engineer. The project engaged a Supervision Engineer (Hifab Oy and
Fichtner) for the following key tasks: (i) design and construction supervision; (ii)
environmental monitoring according to the ESIA/RAP; (iii) capacity building and
training needs assessment for EEPCo; (iv) formulation of the O&M manual for the



7
  The Bank’s recommendation was to by-pass the Shehedi substation and operate from the Gondar
substation.


                                                 12
interconnection; and (v) overseas training for EEPCo staff, including substation and
transmission line engineers, O&M engineers, and managerial staff, covering the
operation of interconnection infrastructure as well as various other aspects of regional
power trade. The Supervision Engineer completed all design approvals and partially
conducted the supervision of the transmission line works until December 2010.

47.     Supervision and reporting by the Supervision Engineer were satisfactory. The
Supervision Engineer also conducted training of the local crew and staff on construction
sites. The Capacity Building and Training Needs Assessment Report was submitted in
February 2010 with training recommendations for various units in EEPCo. The
Supervision Engineer’s contract initially was due to end in September 2010, following
the completion of the construction works. However, the construction delays prevented
full implementation of all activities in the Supervision Engineer’s contract by that date.
Therefore, the Bank’s task team suggested that EEPCo consider extending the
Supervision Engineer’s contract. However, EEPCo opted to allow the Engineer’s contract
expire and have its own staff provide the remaining supervision. This decision
constrained EEPCO’s capacity for supervision of the remaining transmission and
substations works and prevented the completion of the overseas training for EEPCo staff,
required to sustain and enhance their capacity in interconnection operations and power
trade.

48.     Implementation of EMP and RAP. The project implemented these plans
successfully by the time of project closing. EEPCo worked closely with the local
administration to facilitate implementation, and with implementation support from the
Bank, it adjusted the implementation timelines according to the construction timetable.
EEPCo paid compensation of ETB 25.11 million (about US$1.39 million) to 4,490 PAPs.
The implementation arrangement for safeguards provided comprehensive support
involving the Environment Management Unit (EMU) of EEPCO, the Supervision
Engineer, ENTRO, and Bank staff. With the closing of the Supervision Engineer’s
contract before the completion of facilities, supervision of the project activities by
environmental and social experts also ended earlier than planned. Furthermore, the
restructuring of the EMU during project implementation constrained EEPCo’s capacity
for monitoring. Section 2.4 details the key safeguards issues that arose during project
implementation.

49.     Training for the LDC and capacity-building for regional power trade. The
Supervision Engineer assessed training requirements in this area in the aforementioned
report on training requirements. After significant delays, EEPCo elected to provide
training for its staff in the LDC and the Power System Planning Office (PSPO). However,
due to time and budget constraints, these activities never took place and the
recommended capacity building was incomplete at project closing.

50.     Construction of the Sudanese portion of the interconnector. The construction of
this portion of the interconnector was completed on schedule, in June 2010. Because the
transmission lines cross the border north of South Sudan, no changes were necessary
when South Sudan became independent in 2011. The investments on Sudan’s side

                                           13
included an upgrade to the substations and the addition of telecommunications and
control equipment. The works were financed (at US$25.5 million) through a bilateral
credit agreement with India’s export/import bank. Due to arrear-related issues with Sudan,
the Bank’s engagement and supervision of the Sudanese portion of the interconnection
was limited. The established joint steering committees, the construction agreement signed
between EEPCo and NEC, and the project office were the primary avenues through
which the Bank could provide oversight and monitor the commensurate works in Sudan.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization
51.      Design. The outcome indicators were designed to be specific and measurable.
However, the indicators were narrowly defined as the export volumes and revenues,
whereas the PDO broadly aimed to create the conditions and capacity for Ethiopia to
generate export revenues. Indicators related to the completion of the infrastructure and
initiation of trade would have been more consistent with the PDO. The level of the targets
was also overly ambitious. While the transmission line had the technical capacity for the
anticipated level of export volumes, design of the targets did not take into account the
political economy risks inherent in such projects. Moreover, the targets are based on the
assumption that the operations would begin as soon as the construction was completed
and there was no contingency for delays due to contractual issues or technical
adjustments needed during commissioning/test phase.

52.     Most of the intermediate results indicators were specific, measurable, attributable,
and relevant. The indicators for Component One (transmission line erected, number of
substations upgraded, telecommunications systems operational) allowed for easy tracking
of the project results and were reported in the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).
Indicators for Component Two (work of Supervision Engineer satisfactory to EEPCo and
Bank, EMP and RAP implemented in compliance with safeguard policies) were broader
and could have been better articulated to include both qualitative and quantitative
indicators, such as the number of staff trained. Furthermore, the design could have
included an additional intermediate indicator to monitor Subcomponent 2b―LDC and
regional power trade training.

53.     Implementation and Utilization: Results monitoring mainly relied on semi-annual
reports from EEPCo and the Bank supervision missions. Project impact data collection
was mainly the responsibility of EEPCo and involved ENTRO on the M&E of the EMP
and RAP implementation. The Supervision Engineer submitted progress reports regularly
to EEPCo during its contract tenure. Once the consultant contract ended, EEPCo used its
own staff to supervise project activities and continued to report to the Bank on the
progress of implementation.

54.    The Project’s progress towards the achievement of targets has been properly
documented in the ISRs, using specific data for results achieved. The results framework
appears to have been adequately utilized and progress was tracked throughout, which
allowed for the resolution of issues stalling progress (such as direct contracting to
manufacturer as a substitute for payment of the contractor), improved implementation


                                            14
(progress on EMP and RAP), and restructuring of the Project twice to enable completion
of activities.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
55.     Safeguards. Overall, the Project complied with the safeguard policies it
triggered―OP4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement).
An Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) containing an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for Ethiopia and Sudan
was prepared with support from ENTRO. In 2007, the Bank disclosed the EMP and the
two RAPs in the two countries. The monitoring plan for safeguards involved supervision
by the Supervision Engineer, auditing and implementation of the EMP and RAP by
EEPCo, and independent monitoring and oversight by ENTRO. ENTRO also acted as a
vehicle for information and monitoring for the Bank team on Sudan’s portion of the
interconnection.

56.    Implementation of EMP and RAP was completed by the time of project closing,
with a few adjustments made to synchronize the RAP with the revised construction
timetable and sequencing. However, the following issues emerged during the Project’s
implementation period that affected safety and implementation progress:

  i.   First, the subcontractor for the transmission line (Energoinvest) prepared the
       environmental, health, and safety plan to address these issues during the line
       works. Over the course of the construction, however, three deaths and 11
       accidents occurred. The inappropriate erection of two towers contributed to two
       tower collapses in 2010, resulting in nine out of the 11 accidents. The
       subcontractor neglected to mandate the use safety of equipment such as safety
       belts and helmets by his personnel, which contributed to the injuries. One death
       occurred in June 2010 due to the negligence of the personnel, who did not use
       scaffolding or care when crossing the road for the purposes of stringing a line.
       The other two deaths occurred in 2011 as a result of an accident during a tower
       erection, as the personnel did not wear safety belts. In response to these incidents,
       EEPCo discussed the safety practices with the subcontractor and insisted on
       enforcement of safety procedures as a matter of course. In cases where death
       occurred, EEPCo asked that the subcontractor follow compensation procedures.
       The transmission line contractor paid compensation to the affected families. The
       Bank team followed up with EEPCo intensively and was informed of the
       discussions and assurances on enforcement of the safety procedures. The Bank
       team also followed up and confirmed the completion of the compensation
       payments.

 ii.   Second, construction work began in the Bahir Dar–Gondar section before the
       PAPs received compensation. EEPCo had to be informed in order to revise the
       construction schedule such that compensation would be paid first. EEPCo had
       budgeted for these compensations, however three of the woredas delayed
       payments to the relevant PAPs resulting in delays of eight months in the
       completion of this line.

                                            15
 iii.   Finally, of the 4,490 PAPs, five families were paid compensation for damage to
        their properties but did not receive land in accordance with Bank policy, because
        they did not have legal ownership titles awarded by the local government.
        According to Ethiopian law, those without legal ownership titles are not eligible
        for land compensation. Three of these families had refused to move and sought
        redress through the courts. However, the Bank recommended that EEPCo provide
        special assistance to the families to assist with their relocation, even though they
        lost their appeals in the court. In response, EEPCo asked the districts to consider
        such assistance and the families have been successfully relocated since the project
        closing.

57.     Procurement: The management of the Project’s procurement was mostly rated as
“satisfactory” throughout project implementation. Most planned procurement activities
were implemented in a timely manner.

58.     Financial Management: The project, overall, complied with the financial covenant
outlined in the financing agreement. A severe demand/supply gap during 2008–2010
forced EEPCo to rent emergency power, resulting in interim financial losses. EEPCo
subsequently recovered its financial performance and submitted the requisite quarterly
IFRs and annual audits, the latter with significant delays. The disconnect between the
project computers with EEPCo’s mainframe, along with the interface issues between
billing and accounting software, prolonged recording and reporting. Due to these delays
and audit qualifications noted in its report for 2011, financial management performance
was rated as “Moderately Unsatisfactory” for most of project implementation.

2.5.    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
59.    The project’s objective to enhance Ethiopia’s power export capacity through the
development of regional trade opportunities remains relevant to the sector and the
country. The project was embedded in the GoE’s sector strategy and supported
monetization of the surplus hydropower capacity. Since project appraisal, the GoE has
commissioned an additional 1180 MW of hydropower capacity.

60.     Sustaining power trade through interconnection. Despite the delays in project
implementation, the construction and successful operation of the transmission is a
considerable achievement, as the interconnection represents one of the first investments
under the ENSAP and NBI. While there are bottlenecks that need to be addressed, the
existing governance structure is facilitating the resolution of remaining issues. EEPCo
has prepared an O&M plan for the interconnection, including the transmission line and
substations. While the interconnection has only been operational for a short period of
time, given the operational and planning structures in place and ongoing coordination, the
power trade is expected to be sustained.

61.     Regional Integration. The interconnection completed under the Project is a critical
step in the implementation of the GoE’s regional strategy. The GoE is pursuing this
further through follow-up operations supported by the Bank and generation opportunities

                                            16
under NBI. The Ethiopia–Djibouti interconnection, commissioned in 2011, is enabling
power exports to Djibouti. The Ethiopia–Sudan interconnector was followed up by the
Eastern Electricity Highway Project (Ethiopia–Kenya interconnector), co-financed by the
Bank and approved by the World Bank Board in July 2012. The Ethiopia–Sudan
interconnection serves as a pilot investment for broader regional integration under the
NBI. Feasibility studies were completed for a scaled-up joint interconnection project
involving the power systems of Ethiopia, Sudan, and Egypt with plans to interconnect
Ethiopia–Sudan with a 500 kV AC line and Sudan–Egypt with 600 kV AC/DC bi-pole
with respective capacities of 3,200 MW and 2,000 MW.

62.     Capacity Building. The project achieved moderate success in building capacity,
through supervisory services and training, for EEPCo to operate the interconnection and
manage future projects. EEPCo and the Bank could consider a follow-up training
program to address the recommendations of the Supervision Engineer’s “Capacity
Building and Needs Assessment” report, which focused on enhancing EEPCO’s capacity
to plan, design, construct and operate transmissions and substations. It identified specific
training for staff, such as those in the LDC, planning department, engineering department,
and the transmission/substation construction and operation departments.

63.      Safeguards. While the Project’s EMP and RAP were completed successfully by
the closing date, a few issues (detailed in paragraph 56) highlighted the need for the
Environmental Monitoring Unit (EMU) within EEPCo to build the necessary capacity to
ensure effectiveness of safeguards management in future interconnection operations. The
environmental and social management unit within EEPCo needs to be strengthened with
respect to staff capacity and training should be conducted for project units on safeguards
policies and occupational health and safety issues.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Rating: High

64.     The objectives were relevant at the time of appraisal and in line with the priorities
of the PASDEP and ICAS (see paragraph 2). The objectives reflect Ethiopia’s sector
strategy, which included monetization of the country’s hydropower capacity, as well as
its regional integration strategy in the context of NBI and ENSAP. The PDO retains its
relevance with respect to GoE’s current development priorities. Within the context of the
Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP) for 2011-2015, the GoE’s energy strategy aims
to expand electricity access and pursue regional trade. The GoE began exporting to
Djibouti in 2011 and to Sudan in 2012. The Bank approved co-financing to the Ethiopia–
Kenya interconnection under the East Africa Power Pool (EAPP) Project in July 2012.

65.    As noted in section 1.8, the Project’s design supported the development of the
interconnection infrastructure, as well as the establishment of the contractual and
implementation frameworks to facilitate power trade. The project also addressed the

                                             17
environmental and social aspects of the interconnection and aimed to build capacity for
broader regional power trade. Despite the delays, the overall implementation approach
remains relevant to achieving these objectives. The construction schedule and
procurement arrangements were modified and the Project was restructured twice to allow
for completion of the activities. Therefore, the overall relevance is rated high.

3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.     Overall, the Project has moderately achieved its development objective to initiate
power exchange between Ethiopia and Sudan and increase export revenues for Ethiopia.
Such an assessment is based both on the quantitative analysis of the key indicators
(number and extent to which they were achieved) and on a broader qualitative analysis of
project objectives achievement.

67.     Table 1 below shows that many of the performance indicators were fully achieved
by the time of project closing. However, progress towards the achievement of the two key
outcome indicators and one intermediate indicator was only moderate. The achievement
of the intermediate results, particularly for the transmission line component, contributed
to the outcome results and to the achievement of the PDO directly.




                                           18
                            Table 1: Achievement of Key Indicators

        Key Indicator                  Target                   Achievements                   Degree
                                                                                               Achieved
        Quantity of electricity        1000 GWh 8               175.29 GWh 9                   17.5%
        traded
        (exports/imports)
        between Ethiopia and
        Sudan
        Increased foreign              US$50 million            US$8.76 million10              17.5%
        exchange from power
        sales to Sudan
        Kilometers of the              296.5 km                 296.5 km                       100%
        transmission line
        erected
        Number of substations          3                        3                              100%
        upgraded
        Installation of the            Completed                Completed                      100%
        telecommunications
        system
        Training of EEPCo              Completed                Partially Complete             30%
        staff in
        areas relating to
        operation of the
        interconnection
        Progress in                    Completed                Completed                      100%
        implementation of the
        EMP and RAP

Achievement of Outcome results

68.    PDO Indicator 1: Quantity of electricity traded (exports/imports) between
Ethiopia and Sudan. The indicator tracked the power exported from Ethiopia through the
interconnection. Based on the PPA, Ethiopia agreed to export firm power of 876
GWh/year to Sudan, with additional annually and monthly pre-scheduled energy to be
traded, if necessary. As detailed in paragraphs 44, 45, and 46, the Project started
exporting power in November 2012 but temporarily stopped from March to June 2013;


8
  This target for 2011was based on a time period of 18 months of exports after the planned commissioning
of the interconnection in June 2010 until project closing.
9
  This quantity of exports is measured for the time period of 8 months of exports before project closing in
June 2013. In addition, the level of exports was lower than the anticipated PPA levels.
10
   This is the invoiced amount, reflecting electricity for exports from Nov 2012 – Mar 2013. At the time of project
closing this was pending collection but the Bank has been informed that SETCO has begun paying the monthly
installments.

                                                    19
trade then resumed after project closing in July 2013 and is ongoing. The volume of
power exports has also been below the PPA-established levels and based on Sudan’s
demand, as the contractual date of operation is under revision. Firm power volumes are
expected to be exported starting in 2014, as the two parties are in dialogue to finalize the
date of interconnection.

69.     PDO Indicator 2: Increased foreign exchange from power sales to Sudan. The
PPA established the price for the power exchange at US$0.05/kWh. For power exported
during the project implementation period, EEPCo has invoiced about US$8.76 million.
At the time of this ICR documentation, Ethiopia had invoiced additional sales amounting
to US$6.13 million since project closing. As noted above, the revenues are expected to
reach target levels with continued exports at the PPA-established levels.

Achievement of Intermediate Results

70.    Intermediate Results Indicator: kilometers (km) of transmission line erected. The
transmission line of 296.5 km between Bahir Dar and Metema (border town with Sudan)
on the Ethiopia side was completed in June 2011 and commissioned in November 2011.
The overall transmission line was completed with about a one-year delay.

71.      Intermediate Results Indicator: number of substations upgraded. The upgrades at
the three substations in Gondar, Bahir Dar, and Shehedi were completed by June 2013.

72.    Intermediate Results Indicator: installation of the telecommunications system.
The telecommunications equipment installation was completed by June 2013.

73.     Intermediate Results Indicator: training of EEPCo staff in areas related to the
operation of the interconnection. This activity was partially completed. The Supervisory
Engineer conducted training for the local EEPCo staff on the construction and operation
of the interconnection. In addition, the “Capacity Building and Training Needs
Assessment” report identified key staff in various EEPCo departments for training in the
construction and operations of interconnections for regional power trade. This report
provided input for EEPCo to undertake the training for the LDC and regional trade
aspects; however this activity remained incomplete. Nevertheless, the basic capacity is in
place for successful operation of the interconnection; additional capacity building is still
important to sustain and enhance this capacity as noted in the “post-completion”
discussion.

74.     Intermediate Results Indicator: progress in implementation of the EMP and RAP.
The EMP and the RAP were implemented completely by project closing. There were
some challenges during project implementation, including to the occupational health and
safety issues and flow of funds issues for compensation to the PAPs. EEPCo worked with
the transmission line contractor and the local administrative offices respectively in
addressing and facilitating the safeguards implementation. Overall, about US$1.39
million was paid to 4,490 PAPs as compensation.



                                            20
75.     From a qualitative perspective, delays in the completion of the interconnection,
primarily arising due to reasons out of EEPCo and the Bank’s control, postponed exports
of electricity to late 2012. The intermediate result contributing to the achievement of the
outcomes was fully achieved by project closing; however, the shortened time period
during which exports occurred, prior to project closing, did not allow for accumulation of
the target level of exports and impeded the achievement of the outcome targets.

76.     In summary, the Project has overall achieved its broader development objective to
create the conditions and the capacity for Ethiopia to export power and generate revenues.
While the shortcomings in the design of the implementation timeline and outcome
indicators impacted the level of achievement at the time of project closing, the
established infrastructure, institutional arrangements, and strong commitment from both
governments is expected to achieve and sustain the outcomes in the long term. Therefore,
the achievement of the PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory.

3.3.   Efficiency

Rating: Substantial

77.     The economic analysis of the Project is detailed in Annex 2. The PAD calculated
the economic benefits of the Project for Ethiopia and Sudan. The key measurable benefits
flow primarily from the quantity of electricity traded, the associated revenues to Ethiopia,
and the approximated cost savings of the additional power consumption for Sudan. Other
benefits anticipated but more difficult to quantify include benefits for both countries
resulting from the integration of the two systems, a hedge for Ethiopia against hydrology
risks, and global benefits from the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions due to
displacement of thermal power with hydropower in Sudan.

78.     The PAD estimated the volumes of electricity exports to be 1,259 GWh/year
(Base Case), 832 GWh/year (Low Case), and 1,402 GWh/year (High Case). The volume
estimates were based on the anticipated volumes of export of the “annually scheduled
power” and the “monthly scheduled power.” For the purposes of the ICR, the analysis is
based on the exports to date and trade of firm power alone for the future projections
(comparable to the Low Case in the PAD). The PAD estimated the price of exports at
US$0.055/kWh (Base Case), US$0.06/kWh favoring Ethiopia (Pe), and US$0.05/kWh
favoring Sudan (Ps). For the ICR, the established price of US$0.05/kWh is used for the
three-year PPA term but is revised from 2017 onwards, as Ethiopia is likely to (and had
initiated dialogue to) renegotiate the price. For the analysis, the revised PPA price is set
at US$0.07/kWh, which is the price of exports for the Ethiopia–Djibouti interconnection.

79.    The PAD calculated an EIRR of 48.6 percent and a net present value (NPV) of
US$80 million for the volume of 832 GWh/year (Low case in the PAD), and the PPA
signed price of US$0.055/kWh (Base case for price). This is summarized as Scenario 1 in
Table 2 below. For the purpose of this ICR, Scenario 2 has been defined as one with the
same assumptions as in the PAD but with actual data for the volumes of exports and the
PPA actual export price of US$0.05/kWh. In a defined Scenario 3, revised and updated

                                            21
assumptions and actual data are used (where available). The analysis is based on the
export of firm power alone; it should be noted, however, that these volumes represent a
baseline for the analysis and, in the future, power trade could be significantly higher as
the interconnection capacity is fully utilized.

80.     For assessing the Project’s sustainability, it is important that the interconnection
be beneficial to both countries; therefore, the ICR reproduces the analysis for Ethiopia,
Sudan, and combined. The analysis is carried out for 35 years. Table 2 below summarizes
the results:
                          Table 2: Economic Analysis Results

  Analysis @ discount       Scenario 1        Scenario 2               Scenario 3
  rate of 10%              Original PAD       Original PAD             Revised
                           assumptions:       assumptions but          assumptions and
                           Power trade:       with actual data for     actual data:
                           832 GWh/year;      power trade (Exports     Power trade:
                           Price:             to date & PPA firm       Exports to date &
                           US$0.055/kWh)      power (832 GWh/yr)       PPA firm power
                                              for future), and price   (832 GWh/yr) for
                                              (US $0.05/ kWh)          future;
                                                                       Price US
                                                                       $0.05/kWh;
                                                                       US$0.07/kWh
                                                                       2017 onwards
  Ethiopia:
  NPV US$ million          80.0               83.8                     77.6
  IRR %                    48.6               26                       22
  Sudan:
  NPV US$ million          (0.9)              24.02                    100.94
  IRR %                    9.0                17                       35
  Ethiopia & Sudan:
  NPV US$ million          79.7               107.8                    178.09
  IRR %                    36.2               23                       28

81.     Under the different scenarios, the IRR and NPV for Ethiopia are robust. Table 3
reports the results of a sensitivity analysis assuming the following: (a) power trade
continuing at 2013 volumes; and (b) increasing to the Base Case in PAD. A further
sensitivity analysis assumes (c) an increased cost of supply for Ethiopia (the price
differential between the cost of supply and the export price impacts the resulting benefits
of trade for the country). The sensitivity analysis still shows positive economic benefits
for the two countries.




                                            22
                                Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis

       Analysis @          Exports continue at     Exports           Cost of supply for
       discount rate of    current trend for       increase to the   Ethiopia increases
       10%                 another year (less      Base Case in      to US$0.05/kWh
                           than negotiated firm    PAD (1259         for hydro
                           power)                  GWh/year)         generation
       Ethiopia:
                           29.49                   125.02            29.78 (NPV=zero at
       NPV                                                           cost of supply
       US$ million                                                   US$0.056/kWh)

                           16                      27                15
       IRR %
       Sudan:

       NPV                 52.21                   149.88            100.94
       US$ million         27                      41                35
       IRR %
       Ethiopia &
       Sudan:
                           81.69                   274.9             130.72
       NPV                 21                      34                25
       US$ million
       IRR %

82.     In summary, the overall analysis―including the sensitivities, based on actual
results data and revised assumptions―indicate that the Project yields significant
economic benefits to the countries, even with a conservative baseline of firm power
exports only.

83.     Given the robust results from the economic analysis, the positive indications for
sustained trade, and disbursements of over 98.3 percent with efficient use of resources,
the efficiency is rated Substantial.

3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.     The Project’s overall outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory by taking into
account the high relevance of the project objective, design, and implementation,
moderately satisfactory achievement of its development objectives, and substantial
efficiency of performance. The project development objective was successfully achieved
as the interconnection infrastructure was established by project closing and trade was
initiated, thus promoting Ethiopia’s capacity to export power and generate revenues.
Shortcomings in the outcome results arise due to the ambitious design of the timeline and

                                             23
indicators and the protracted delays due to the economic sanctions. Since the exports are
ongoing and power sales have continued, with some time lag, the outcome targets can be
fully achieved. In addition, the Project has set the foundation for power trade and has
yielded valuable experience for regional integration, as reflected in the Ethiopia–Djibouti
interconnection and the ongoing Ethiopia–Kenya interconnection.

3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

85.    The Project provided a “win-win” opportunity for the poverty reduction programs
of both Ethiopia and Sudan. For Ethiopia, the Project made a substantial contribution to
monetizing the country’s hydropower resource base, through power exports. The
incremental income from the interconnection will contribute toward increasing Ethiopia’s
GDP. Moreover, the cash that the interconnection generates for EEPCo can be used by
the company to invest in infrastructure that will increase the access of Ethiopian
households to electricity. At the same time, for Sudan, the interconnection substantially
reduces the average cost of electricity, making access more affordable for greater
numbers of Sudanese households. Imported, low-cost power also reduces the cost of
doing business, thereby enhancing the competitiveness of Sudanese enterprises,
ultimately resulting in higher earnings.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

86.     The project entailed capacity-building activities that contributed to strengthening
the capacity of various project stakeholders. The Supervision Engineer provided training
for EEPCo staff on construction and O&M of the interconnection, although the training
was not fully completed by project closing. EEPCo staff was paired with international
consultants to share experience and gain technical expertise on the transmission line and
substation works. The implementation of the EMP and RAP, with support from the Bank
and ENTRO, enhanced EEPCo’s capacity for managing safeguards aspects of
interconnection projects. The implementation arrangements, particularly the Steering and
the Interconnection committees, have established a model for the design, coordination,
communication, and operation of future interconnections, strengthening the capacity of
the GoE and EEPCo for broader regional integration.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

87.    There is a low risk that the Project’s development outcomes will not be sustainable. The
following sections discuss the rationale for this overall rating, by risk category.

   a) Technical factors: The technical and operational capacity for the interconnection,
      in order to ensure flow of benefits, is adequate and the contractual and
      implementation frameworks have been established to support the ongoing

                                            24
   operations and maintenance of the interconnection. For example, the JIC and the
   working groups for operations and planning have already responded to revisions
   required in technical parameters and have updated the OMA, to be signed shortly.
   While enhanced capacity is desired in power trade and interconnection operations,
   as recommended in the follow-up actions, the risk to the development outcome
   from these factors is low.

b) Economic and Financial factors: The economic analysis indicates that
   maintaining the volumes of exports under the current PPA terms will ensure the
   flow of economic and financial benefits to the two countries. Moreover, the
   interconnection can be utilized for a higher capacity of volumes than the
   established firm power and could yield even higher than currently planned
   benefits in the future. Therefore, the risk to the PDO from these factors is low.

c) Social and Environmental aspects: The implementation of the EMP and RAP
   overall was successful. There is no foreseeable risk to the PDO due to safeguards
   issues, although follow-up actions are recommended in paragraph 63 to further
   enhance capacity for safeguards aspects in EEPCo.

d) Political factors: Given the context of the political uncertainties in the region,
   there is a low risk of interruption to the flow of energy, and therefore, to the
   sustainable achievement of the PDO. Notwithstanding, the GoE and GoS have
   already demonstrated continued commitment to the mandate of regional power
   trade, including as evidenced by the resumption of this trade between the two
   countries. More broadly, under the NBI, feasibility studies have been completed
   for joint interconnections between Ethiopia–Sudan and Ethiopia–Egypt through
   Sudan. The GoE is expanding its power generation capacity for domestic and
   export demand. The Ethiopia–Kenya interconnection is underway and additional
   interconnections are planned with other Eastern African countries.

e) Institutional factors: There is a moderate risk that EEPCo and SETCO might
   delay the resolution of the claimed liquidated damages and the establishment of
   the interconnection date, impacting the level of power exports in the near term.
   However, the ongoing dialogue between the two countries, the government
   commitment, and the institutional arrangements (Joint Steering Committee - JSC
   and Joint Interconnection Committee - JIC) are in place to facilitate
   communication and resolution. The Bank has been informed that JIC is planning a
   meeting before the end of 2013 to establish a revised interconnection operation
   date and sign the revised OMA. Sudan has begun making the installed payments
   for the power imported from November 2012 to March 2013.




                                       25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance

(a)   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

88.     The Bank team assisted Ethiopia and Sudan in preparing and designing the
Project by building on several analytical studies and assessments undertaken in view of
the interconnection. The project had a highly strategic relevance to the government’s
development agenda and supported the GoE’s sector strategy to monetize its hydropower
resources, making Ethiopia a key player in the regional power trade. The technical design
of the Project was robust; however, the design of the implementation schedule was
ambitious and did not account adequately for the political economy and contractual risks
inherent in projects of this nature. While the Bank team identified the Project’s key risks
and mitigation measures, the risks in breakdown of implementation and interruption of
power supply were underestimated, and these eventually impacted project
implementation. The Project emphasized and developed effective mechanisms for
addressing related environmental and social aspects, including coordination with ENTRO.

89.     The project objectives and components were well defined and targeted to increase
Ethiopia’s export revenues, address environmental and social aspects of the
interconnection, and build capacity for broader regional power trade. Overall, the
outcome and output indicators were specific and measurable; however, the design of the
outcome indicators and the target levels had a few shortcomings. Progress towards the
PDO was narrowly measured with export volumes and revenues; indicators related to the
establishment of the infrastructure and initiation of trade would have been more relevant
to the broader objective as stated. In addition, the target indicator levels were also
ambitious, as they did not adequately take into account the political economy and
contractual risks.

90.     The implementation arrangements and underlying contractual frameworks were
designed to provide a strong platform for commitment, leadership, and oversight for the
Project.

91.     Overall, the Bank team executed the project identification, preparation, and
design systematically and comprehensively to achieve the project objectives with
moderate shortcomings in the design of the timeline, assessment of risks, and outcome
indicators. Therefore, the Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.




                                           26
(b)   Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

92.    Supervision documents and EEPCO’s feedback show that the Bank provided
strong support for effective implementation. The Project was launched with a workshop
hosted by EEPCo in which the project team made a presentation on fiduciary and
safeguards aspects. The team composition changed seamlessly during the project period,
with four task team leaders overseeing the Project. Implementation support missions took
place twice a year. The Mid Term Review (MTR) assessed project status and explored
measures to accelerate implementation issues, in order to improve project performance.
The ISRs and the MTR report provide detailed updates on the Project’s progress and
achievement of the indicators.

93.     The Bank team was proactive in monitoring the Project and showed flexibility in
responding to emerging issues during implementation. As noted earlier, the Bank team
recommended an alternative configuration (which eventually was not implemented, as
explained in paragraph 40) to enable the connection of the Gondar–Shehedi line to one of
the Shehedi–Metema lines at the Shehedi substation by using available facilities in order
to address implementation delays. The team facilitated modified contracting
arrangements (direct contracting) to eventually resolve the delays caused by payment
transfer issues described earlier. The Bank team additionally restructured the Project to
address these issues and extended the time for completion of physical works. It also
worked closely with EEPCo in supervising and addressing safeguards and fiduciary
aspects of the Project. On the occupational health and safety issues, the Bank team
followed up with EEPCo intensively and was informed that it discussed the safety issues
with the transmission-line subcontractor and was assured the safety procedures in place
would be enforced. The Bank team also requested and received information on the
compensation paid to the families of the deceased.

94.     There was a minor shortcoming in Bank supervision. Although the Bank
repeatedly urged EEPCo to expedite alternate arrangements to avoid liquidated damages
and facilitated the start of the exports, the team could have enhanced its monitoring of the
contractual issues, requesting an action plan from EEPCo. It should be noted, however,
that the resolution of these issues required a scope and engagement outside this project
boundary, given the region’s political context and Bank’s constrained engagement with
Sudan.

(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

95.    Overall, Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The quality at entry
with relevant and targeted project design was substantiated with sound background
analysis. However, there were moderate shortcomings in the design of the project
schedule, design of the outcome indicators, and estimation of the political economy and

                                            27
contractual risks, ultimately yielding a “Moderately Satisfactory” rating for Quality at
Entry. Supervision was “Satisfactory;” the Bank team was highly responsive and adaptive
to emerging issues (including implementation and safeguards). The team worked closely
and diligently to accelerate project performance, with some minor shortcomings in
follow-up on the export arrangements. The overall Bank performance rating of
“Moderately Satisfactory” is a combined rating based on Quality at Entry and
Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a)   Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

96.     The GoE showed a strong commitment to the Project’s concept, design, and
preparation and remained committed to the objectives throughout the Project’s
implementation. In addition, the GoE maintained a strong mandate to enhance its role in
regional power trade. Throughout implementation, the GoE was actively engaged in the
Project’s JSC and received regular updates from EEPCo. It continues its joint
engagement with the GoS in the operational phase.

97.     The GoE facilitated project implementation and supported measures taken by
EEPCo (including setting up of a foreign currency account) to address implementation
delays mainly arising from the unforeseen issues in payment transfers to the Iranian
subcontractor. The ICR mission notes that stronger ownership of the Project could have
expedited the implementation of resolutions at emergence. GoE intervention and
leadership might have aided customs clearance issues at the Port of Djibouti, enhanced
responsiveness on EEPCo’s part to implement an alternate configuration, and facilitated
faster resolution of the contractual issues between SETCO and EEPCo.

98.    Overall, the GoE provided support and guidance towards the Project’s effective
design, with minor shortcomings in addressing delays and related contractual issues.
Therefore, government performance is rated as satisfactory.

(b)   Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

99.     EEPCo is committed to the realization of the GoE’s energy strategy and the
mandate to enhance energy supply to meet domestic demand and power export capacity.
The Ethiopia–Sudan Interconnection Project Coordination Unit comprised seasoned
professional and technical experts with experience in transmission projects. EEPCo
worked closely with the Bank on project design and preparation, building on analytical
studies as well as the ESIA.




                                          28
100. During implementation, the PCU facilitated coordination among the procurement,
financial management, safeguards, and monitoring activities. The implementation
progress reports, audits, and financial reports were submitted to the Bank regularly, albeit
with some delays on financial management reporting, owing to software interface issues
between the project office and the main EEPCo office. EEPCo put in place the requisite
contracts and implemented the procurement arrangements successfully with minor delays.

101.   EEPCo coordinated with ENTRO, the Bank, and EMU for the implementation of
EMP and RAP, though the latter was restructured subsequently, constraining its support.
EEPCo successfully completed the implementation of EMP and RAP in close
coordination with the districts, with few delays arising out of flow-of-funds problems.

102. EEPCo strived to address the unforeseen issues delaying the substation works
through various measures: securing a Letter of Credit with the parent company of Sunir-
Co., opening a foreign currency account in the country, and eventually implementing
direct contracting to complete the interconnection. However, EEPCo’s responsiveness to
the Bank’s recommendation to implement an interim alternative configuration or channel
works from other projects/substations to meet project deadlines and avoid liquidated
damages was slow. EEPCo could have been more proactive in putting in place mitigation
measures to accelerate project performance; internal coordination challenges impeded
speedier resolution. Subsequently, EEPCo was faced with SETCO’s liquidated damage
claims and refusal to pay for imports between November 2012 and March 2013, in spite
of it reporting a “force majeure” event. However, EEPCo has been diligently working
through the GoE and JIC, and is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with SETCO to resolve
outstanding issues. EEPCo has resumed exports with ongoing payments by SETCO while
the two parties are working on reaching an agreement on the revised interconnection
operation date.

103. EEPCo delayed the initiation of the capacity-building activities identified under
Subcomponent 2b (LDC training, EEPCo units training on regional power trade,
generation) and time and budget constraints later on prevented completion of this activity.

104. EEPCo’s decision to not extend the engineer’s contract past the original
construction timeline impacted project performance. EEPCo’s staff supervised most of
the construction works and the Project was implemented without the expert supervision
intended through the contract. As a result, the monitoring and reporting were not as
robust. Capacity building activities envisioned to sustain and enhance EEPCo’s capacity
for interconnections remained incomplete. Furthermore, the lack of expertise potentially
affected EEPCo’s responsiveness in taking action to put in place alternate arrangements
to expedite implementation.

105. Overall, the performance of EEPCo and the PCU facilitated progress towards the
PDO. EEPCo was flexible and strived to address the construction delays, mainly arising
from reasons outside of its control. EEPCo coordinated and successfully implemented the
procurement, financial management, and safeguard aspects of the Project with minor
delays. EEPCo responded to and addressed the occupational health and safety issues

                                            29
arising during project implementation. However, a speedier resolution of the issues that
delayed construction, through the recommended modified arrangements, could have
accelerated project performance. Extension of the Supervision Engineer’s contract would
have enhanced implementation progress and project achievements. Given the overall
achievements and these moderate shortcomings, the implementing agency’s performance
is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

106. Based on the satisfactory performance of the government and the moderately
satisfactory rating of the performance of the implementing agency, the overall rating for
the borrower’s performance is found to be Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

107. Design of the outcome indicators and targets: It is critical that the outcomes and
the targets are defined to be consistent with the Project’s broader objective. An
interconnection project creates the capacity to generate exports and revenues, as well as
lay the groundwork for future interconnection opportunities. Given this measure of
achievement, the indicators should gauge whether such capacity was created (through
infrastructure, commercial frameworks, etc.) and not be restricted to levels of exports and
revenues. The indicator targets should also take into account not only the
interconnection’s technical capacity but also the political economy risks and contractual
delays.

108. Contractual frameworks: Contractual frameworks should be established early on,
ideally by the time of project appraisal. While contractual issues are still feasible as
occurred in this project, the risk of contractual delays could be mitigated with agreements
in place at the time of appraisal. A full-fledged PPA may not be needed but a detailed
term sheet with agreement on key terms (such as price and indexation formula,
firm/guaranteed power/energy quantity, operating conditions, billing, dispute resolution
mechanisms, etc.) should be required. The Bank should provide technical support and act
in an advisory capacity to facilitate the development of these frameworks as needed.
However, contractual frameworks alone do not necessarily mitigate the risk of
breakdowns in the flow of exports through the interconnection of power systems. Risk
management requires a closer monitoring and continued oversight from the Bank in order
to engage in a dialogue as issues arise.

109. Political economy risks: Transmission projects are inherently complex, with
implementation impacted by technical, safeguards, and construction issues. Such risks are
compounded in interconnection projects with political economy risks such as in sub-
regional projects. Project design should therefore assess these risks, adequately reflecting
them in the level of targets as well as providing contingencies for delays owing to
potential contractual disputes.

                                            30
110. Contracting under third-party economic sanctions: The interconnection project
raised an important constraint in light of an FM event, such as the economic sanctions
imposed on the Contractor’s country of origin by a third country. In cases where Bank’s
procurement policies allow the client to award a contract to a company whose country is
affected by economic sanctions, the Bank should be more proactive to ensure that the
client is able to make timely payment to its contractors.

111. Supervision of works: It is imperative that the expertise and oversight planned for
the supervision of projects is sustained throughout implementation. The supervision
engineer’s consultancy was an opportunity for EEPCo to support implementation and
sustain and build its capacity for future operations.

112. Occupational health and safety: Lapses in enforcement of the occupational safety
and health aspects of social safeguards can lead to serious accidents and even deaths.
EEPCo should intensify its oversight, strengthen its capacity and training for
occupational health and safety among its staff, and ensure due diligence from the
contractors it supervises.

113. Capacity for safeguards implementation: Inadequate capacity for managing the
environmental and social aspects of a project with significant safeguards increases the
risk of delays in project implementation. EEPCo needs to strengthen its Environmental
Management Unit and enhance capacity on safeguards policies and implementation.

114.   Engagement with both parties to the interconnection: The Bank’s engagement is
important with all parties to an interconnection project to enable due diligence,
supervision, and monitoring of the commensurate investments in the countries.
Engagement also allows the Bank to facilitate dialogue and resolution of any issues
arising from contractual and/or political risks. The Ethiopia–Sudan interconnection
demonstrates that it is challenging for the Bank to support projects in which it is unable to
engage with one of the parties.




                                             31
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

115. The comments/issues raised by the Borrower and IA are summarized in Annex 5.
The comments have been addressed and revisions have been incorporated in the relevant
ICR sections. Key issues and clarifications are highlighted below:

       •   Difference between Borrower and Government rating: Per ICR guidelines, the
           Borrower Rating is an aggregate of the “Government performance” and
           ‘Implementing Agency” performance. In this case, MoFED’s performance is
           assessed on behalf of the government and EEPCo’s performance is assessed
           as the implementing agency.
       •   NPV of different scenarios under Economic analysis: NPVs in the revised
           scenarios 2 and 3 reflect the different PPA price projected for future volumes.
       •   Capacity building and LDC training: The comment on LDC training is noted;
           however, this activity is recorded as ‘Not completed” as that was the final
           outcome.
       •   Interconnection operations timeline: The project design was four years and the
           two years of operation refers to the duration of exports before project closing.
           It is noted that the duration of operations as three years in the PPA and is
           expected to be renegotiated.




                                            32
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (In US$ million equivalent)
                            Appraisal Actual/ Latest
Components                                                 Percentage of Appraisal
                            Estimate Estimate
Component 1a:               27.40        27.45             100.12%
Transmission line
Component 1b:               12.15        11.62             95.63%
Substation upgrades, incl.
telecommunications
Subtotal Component 1        39.55        39.07             98.78%
Component 2a: 1.            1.4          1.8               128.5%
Supervision Engineer
Component 2a: 2. EMP        1.3          1.4               107.7%
and RAP implementation
Component 2b: 1. LDC        0.5          0.00              0%
training
Component 2b: 2.            0.1          0.00              0%
Capacity Building –
regional integration
Component 2b: 3.            0.25         0.00              0%
Competitive new
generation schemes
Sub-total Component 2       3.55         3.2               90.1%
Total project costs         43.10        42.27             98.1%
Note: The appraisal estimates are taken from Annex 5– Project Costs of the PAD and
include contingencies.

Financing (In US$ million equivalent)

                              Type of     Appraisal    Actual/ Latest   Percentage
Source of Funds
                              Financing   Estimate     Estimated        of Appraisal
Borrower                      Cash & in   2.05         1.40             68.3%
                              kind
International Development     Credit      41.05        40.87            99.56%
Association (IDA)




                                          33
Annex 2: Outputs by Component

               Components                                Major Outputs
Component 1 - Construction of transmission interconnection between the towns of
Bahir Dar and Metema (at the Ethiopia/Sudan border)
Transmission lines                        296.5 km of transmission line was
                                          completed between Bahir Dar and Metema.
Substations upgrade and rehabilitation    Bahir Dar, Gondar, and Shehedi
                                          substations were upgraded, including with
                                          additional bays, to support the T-line
                                          works.
Telecommunications and telecontrol        Fiber optics telecommunications system
equipment                                 and supervisory control and telecontrol
                                          equipment were installed in the three
                                          substations and LDC.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for Regional
Development
Supervision Engineer                      All design approvals and partial
                                          supervision of the T-line works were
                                          conducted until December 2010. Training
                                          was provided to local crew and EEPCo
                                          staff. The “Capacity Building and Training
                                          Needs Assessment Report” was submitted
                                          in February 2010 with recommendations on
                                          the trainings for the various units in
                                          EEPCo. The OMA (technical changes) was
                                          reviewed and revised.
Implementation of EMP and RAP             EMP and RAP were completed
                                          successfully by the time of project closing.
                                          EEPCo worked closely with local
                                          administrative officers in facilitating
                                          implementation. EEPCo paid compensation
                                          of about US$1.39 million to 4,490 PAPs.
Strengthening of LDC                      Not implemented
Capacity building on regional trade       Not implemented
Competitive new generation schemes        Not implemented




                                         34
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The economic analysis for the Project only covers the interconnection and not the
capacity-building activities under Component 2b. The investment costs include the costs
of the transmission, substations, supervision, and implementation of the EMP and RAP
and account for more than 98 percent of the Project. The economic analysis is focused on
the main benefit from the sale of surplus hydropower electricity from Ethiopia to Sudan
to substitute for costlier thermal generation. Other benefits, more difficult to quantify,
include benefits for both countries resulting from integration of the two systems, a hedge
for Ethiopia against hydrology risks, and global benefits from the reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions.

Quantitative Analysis:

2.      For the quantitative analysis, the key parameters are the volume of trade, the price
of the electricity traded, the cost of supply of power to Ethiopia, and the cost savings and
benefits of the additional power consumption for Sudan.

   a) Export volumes: The PPA-negotiated volume for firm power is 100 MW, as
      noted in the PAD. The “Annually Scheduled Power” and the “Monthly Scheduled
      Power” during the rainy season are noted in the PPA; however, the volumes are
      not indicated. The PAD assumed 60 percent and 80 percent availability of these to
      arrive at the Base Case (1259 GWh/year) and High Case (1402 GWh/year),
      respectively. The PAD Low Case was chosen as the volume of firm power alone
      traded for the duration of the analysis and was estimated at 832 GWh/year in the
      PAD (with 95 percent availability). For the purposes of the ICR, the analysis is
      based on the export of firm power alone and the PAD Low Case is therefore used
      as the comparable. The analysis also assumes that the firm power is available 95
      percent of the time, accounting for downtime for maintenance, etc. of the
      interconnection. It should be noted that these volumes represent a baseline for the
      analysis and the volumes in the future could be significantly higher as the
      interconnection capacity is fully realized.

   b) Price of exports: (Revenues to Ethiopia cost of imports to Sudan): The PAD
      estimated the PPA price to be US$0.055/kWh in the Base Case, US$0.05/kWh
      favoring Sudan in the Ps case, and US$0.06/kWh favoring Ethiopia in the Pe case.
      The actual PPA-negotiated price for the export of firm power is US$0.05/kWh.
      The PPA declares that the price for the annually and monthly scheduled power
      would be mutually agreed upon as the need for the transaction arises. For the ICR,
      this price is used for the three-year PPA term but is revised from 2017 onwards,
      as Ethiopia is likely to (and had initiated dialogue to) renegotiate the price. For
      the analysis, the revised PPA price is set to US$0.07/kWh, which is the price of
      exports for the Ethiopia–Djibouti interconnection.

   c) Weighted average cost of production: For the firm power, PAD assumed that
      for 50 percent of the time of trade over the years, the electricity would entail

                                            35
      surplus power estimated to cost EEPCo US$0.005/kWh. The remainder of the
      duration, it assumed that the non-surplus power would be exported and was
      estimated at US$0.045, including incremental power generation costs of
      US$0.04/kWh. The weighted average cost for production of the firm power was,
      therefore, calculated to be US$0.025/kWh. The Annually and Monthly scheduled
      powers represent surplus power and were costed at US$0.005/kWh. For the
      purpose of the ICR analysis, the electricity trade is estimated to be entirely
      composed of firm power to reflect the exports so far, the lack of information on
      the annually and monthly scheduled power in the PPA, and a conservative
      estimate of the economic benefits. Furthermore, under the ICR assumptions, the
      cost of supply of power is estimated as the average cost of hydropower generation
      at US$0.04/kWh.

   d) Benefits to Sudan: The PAD estimated the benefits to Sudan as reflected by the
      willingness to pay for the imported energy and the approximate fuel savings in
      substituting hydro imports for regular fuel consumption. The PAD estimated this
      to be US$0.06/kWh. Under the revised estimates, the benefits to Sudan are
      approximated at tariff rates of US$0.09/kWh. The tariff rate is assumed based on
      discussions with the Sudan office and EEPCo and is conservative, given the costs
      of thermal generation.

3.     The key revised assumptions and data underlying the ICR analysis are shown in
Table 1 below:




                                         36
Table 1: Key Assumptions for the Economic Analysis

                                                   Ethiopia     Sudan
                                                   EEPCo        SETCO         Source

                                                                              Includes 27.45 on TL,11.62 on substations,
Investment costs                                        41.77                  1.4 for supervision, 1.3 for EMP & RAP implementation)

Transmission Losses                                      5%           5%      Feasibility Study Update, 2006

Export Volumes, GWh/year (assumed starting 2014)         876                  PPA
Export Volumes, Actual, GWh/year (2012)                 74.25                 LDC Data
Export Volumes, Actual, GWh/year (2013)                494.62                 LDC Data
                     Monthly average                    41.22
Availability of power                                   95%                   Accounting for downtime (maintenance, etc.)

Electricity export tariff of EEPCo, US$/kWh:
             Firm power & associated energy             0.05                  PPA
                                                                              PPA term is 3 yrs, expected to revise tariffs by 2017;
                                                                              conservative estimate of US$0.07/kWh based on Ethiopia-
                   Tariffs from year 2017               0.07                  Djibouti PPA

Variable energy supply costs of EEPCo, US$/kWh:
           Firm power & associated energy               0.04                  Average hydropower generation costs for EEPCo


                                                                              Assumption based on tariff rates for Sudan, conservative
Benefits for SETCO, US$/kWh                                           0.09    estimate vis-à-vis cost of thermal generation

O&M cost for TL, US$millions/year                       0.48         0.2148   EEPCo; Feasibility Study Update, 2006


Discount rate                                           10%          10%

Base year of cost                                       2008         2008     Project Data
Construction start year                                 2009         2008     Project Data
Construction duration, years                             4             2      Project Data
Commissioning year                                      2012         2010     Project Data

Operating life, years                                    35           35




Economic Analysis Results:

4.     For sustainability of the Project, it is important to ensure that the interconnection
is beneficial for both countries; therefore, the ICR reproduces the analysis for Ethiopia
and Sudan. The analysis is carried out over 35 years.

5.     The PAD calculated an EIRR of 48.6 percent and an NPV of US$80 million for
the volume of 832 GWh/year (Low Case in the PAD) and the PPA signed price of
US$0.055/kWh (Base Case for price). This is summarized as Scenario 1 in the table
below. Scenario 2 is based on the same assumptions as in the PAD but with actual results
data for the volumes of exports and the PPA negotiated price of US$0.05/kWh. In
Scenario 3, revised and updated assumptions and actual results data are used. Table 2
below summarizes the results:


                                                                37
Table 2: Economic Analysis Results

 Analysis @          Original PAD       PAD assumptions but     Revised
 discount rate of    (Scenario 1)       actual data (Scenario   assumptions and
 10%                 Volume: 832        2)                      actual data
                     GWh/year;          Volume: Exports to      (Scenario 3)
                     Price:             date & PPA firm         Volume: Exports to
                     US$0.055/kWh)      power (832 GWh/yr)      date & PPA firm
                                        for future;             power (832
                                        Price US$0.05/ kWh      GWh/yr) for future;
                                                                Price
                                                                US$0.05/kWh;
                                                                US$0.07/kWh 2017
                                                                onwards
 Ethiopia:
 NPV US$ million     80.0               83.8                    77.6
 IRR %               48.6               26                      22
 Sudan:
 NPV US$ million     (0.9)              24.02                   100.94
 IRR %               9.0                17                      35
 Ethiopia &
 Sudan:              79.7               107.8                   178.09
 NPV US$ million     36.2               23                      28
 IRR %

6.      The revised estimates for Ethiopia under the PAD assumptions (i.e. Scenario 2)
result in an IRR of 26 percent and an NPV of US$83.8 million. The lower IRR compared
to the comparable PAD scenario is due to the delay in commissioning of the lines, lower
volume of exports to date, and lower PPA price. The revised estimates for Sudan under
the PAD assumptions result in an IRR of 17 percent and an NPV of US$24.02 million.
The improved results to the comparable Low Case scenario in the PAD are due to the
improved price of imports for Sudan. Benefits to Sudan are largely a function of the
volumes and its cost savings for the additional power consumption. For Ethiopia and
Sudan combined, the lower IRR reflects a lower volume of power trade than anticipated.

7.      Under Scenario 3, with revised data as well as revised assumptions (ICR
assumptions), the IRR and NPV for Ethiopia are 22 percent and US$77.6 million,
respectively. The difference is in the assumption for the cost of supply for Ethiopia.
While the PAD assumptions estimate a weighted average of cost, including cost of
surplus power at US$0.025/kWh, the ICR analysis conservatively pegs this cost of supply
at the average cost of hydropower generation (US$0.04/kWh). The IRR and NPV for
Sudan improve at 35 percent and US$100.94 million, respectively, owing to the revised
estimation of benefits using the tariff rates. For the combined analysis, the IRR and NPV
are higher, at 28 percent and US$178.09 million, as compared to Scenario 2. A snapshot
of the analysis under Scenario 3 is shown in Table 3 below.


                                           38
                                                       Table 3: Economic Analysis Snapshot

Economic Analysis
                                                                    Years
                                                                             2008      2009      2010     2011     2012      2013     2014     2015     2016     2017
Costs USD
Ethiopia                                      (EEPCO+IDA)
Investments - Transmission Line (USD million)               27.45             0.00     12.80     13.09     1.56
Investments - Substations works (USD million)               11.61             0.00      1.22      4.66     3.18     2.06      0.50
Supervision and EMP/RAP *USD million)                        3.10             1.24      1.86
Total Investment Costs (USD million)                        42.16             1.24     15.88     17.75     4.74     2.06      0.50     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00

Electricity transmitted (GWh/year)                                            0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    70.53    469.89   832.20   832.20   832.20   832.20
Variable Energy supply costs (USD million)                                    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     2.82     18.80    33.29    33.29    33.29    33.29
O&M costs for TL (USD million)                                                                                      0.35      0.48     0.48     0.48     0.48     0.48
Total Operating costs (USD million)                                           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     3.17     19.28    33.77    33.77    33.77    33.77

Total Costs (E) (USD million)                                                 1.24     15.88     17.75     4.74     5.23     19.78    33.77    33.77    33.77    33.77

Sudan
Total Investments (USD million)                             25.60            10.24     12.80      2.56
O&M costs for TL (USD million)                                                                             0.21     0.21      0.21     0.21     0.21     0.21     0.21
Costs of Imports (USD million)                                                0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     3.53     23.49    41.61    41.61    41.61    58.25

Total Costs (S) (USD million)                                                10.24     12.80      2.56     0.21     3.74     23.71    41.82    41.82    41.82    58.47

TOTAL COSTS (E&S) (USD million)                                              11.48     28.68     20.31     4.95     5.44     19.99    33.98    33.98    33.98    33.98


Benefits USD
Ethiopia
Export Revenues for EEPCo (USD million)                                          0         0         0        0        4       23       42       42       42       58

Total Benefits (E) (USD million)                                             0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     3.53     23.49    41.61    41.61    41.61    58.25

Sudan
Cost savings (or tariff) (USD million)                                           0         0         0        0        6       42       75       75       75       75

Total Benefits (S) (USD million)

TOTAL BENEFITS (E&S: Sudan's benefits) (USD million)                         0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     6.35     42.29    74.90    74.90    74.90    74.90

NET BENEFITS (E) (USD million)                                               (1.24)   (15.88)   (17.75)   (4.74)   (1.70)    3.72     7.84     7.84     7.84    24.49

NET BENEFITS (S) (USD million)                                              (10.24)   (12.80)    (2.56)   (0.21)   2.61     18.58    33.07    33.07    33.07    16.43

NET BENEFITS (E&S) (USD million)                                            (11.48)   (28.68)   (20.31)   (4.95)   0.91     22.30    40.92    40.92    40.92    40.92

Ethiopia (NPV & IRR)
NPV                                              $77.16
EIRR                                               22%

Sudan (NPV & IRR)
NPV                                             $100.94
EIRR                                               35%

Ethiopia & Sudan (NPV & IRR)
NPV                                             $178.09
EIRR                                               28%



                                                                                                39
8.     Overall, the IRR and NPV for Ethiopia are robust, with actual results and revised
assumptions. Table 4 below presents a sensitivity analysis showing a) trade continuing at
2013 volumes; b) increasing to the High Case in PAD; and b) increased cost of supply for
Ethiopia.

9.      The analysis still yields positive economic benefits for the countries. The lower
export volumes reduce returns for both countries. As expected, the revised PPA price
shifts the benefits more towards Ethiopia, but the increased cost of supply adversely
impacts Ethiopia’s returns. The cost of supply would have to increase to US$0.0562/kWh
for the NPV to be zero for Ethiopia. This is highly unlikely, given the recent costs of
hydro-generation in the country.

                             Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis

 Analysis @          Exports         Exports increase   Cost of supply for Ethiopia
 discount rate of    continue at     to the Base Case   increases to US$0.05/kWh for
 10%                 current trend   in PAD (1259       hydro-generation
                     for another     GWh/year)
                     year (less
                     than
                     negotiated
                     firm power)
 Ethiopia:
 NPV US$ million     29.49           125.02             29.78
                                                        (NPV=zero at cost of supply
                                                        US$0.056/kWh)

 IRR %               16              27                 15
 Sudan:
 NPV US$ million     52.21           149.88             100.94
 IRR %               27              41                 35
 Ethiopia &
 Sudan:              81.69           274.9              130.72
 NPV US$ million     21              34                 25
 IRR %

10.     In summary, the overall analysis, including the sensitivities, based on actual
results data and revised assumptions, indicates that the Project yields significant
economic benefits to the countries. It should be noted that the analysis uses a
conservative baseline of firm power exports only; the interconnection has a higher
capacity for energy trade and the Project would accrue significantly higher benefits with
increased volumes of trade.




                                             40
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

a)   Task team Members

         Names                     Title                         Unit

Philippe Benoit          Task Team Leader           AFTEG
Alexandra Planas         Operations Officer         AFTWR (Consultant)
Luiz Maurer              Senior Energy Specialist   AFTEG
Chrisantha Ratnayake     Power Engineer and         AFTEG (Consultant)
                         Proc. Specialist
Gulam Dhalla             Financial Specialist       AFTEG (Consultant)
Kristine Ivarsdotter     Senior Social              AFTS1
                         Development Specialist
Jorge Uquillas           Senior Social              AFTS1
                         Development Specialist
Robert Robelus           Senior Environmental       AFTS1
                         Assessment Specialist
Eshetu Yimer             Senior Financial           AFTFM
                         Management
Jonathan Pavluk          Senior Counsel             LEGAF
Christine Onyango        Counsel                    LEGAF (Consultant)
Luis Schwarz             Senior Financial officer   LOAG2
Tesfaleem Iyesus         Senior Procurement         AFTPC
                         Specialist
Richard Olowo            Senior Procurement         AFTPC
                         Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Reynold Duncan           Task Team Leader #2        AFTEG
Raihan Elahi             Task Team Leader #3        AFTG1
Issa Diaw                Task Team Leader #4        AFTG1
Chrisantha Ratnayake     Power Engineer and         AFTEG (Consultant)
                         Proc. Specialist
Yusuf Haji Ali           Power Engineer             Consultant
Janine A. Speakman       Operations Analyst         AFTG1
Ahmad Slaibi             Economist
Edwards Felix Dwumfour   Senior Environmental
                         Specialist
Yasmin Tayyab            Senior Social              AFTS1
                         Development Specialist
Tesfaye Ayele            Senior Procurement         AFTPE
                         Specialist
Mulat Negash Tegegn      Financial Management       AFTFM
                         Specialist
Tafesse Freminatos       Consultant                 AFTFM
Abrham

                                       41
Bobak Rezaian            Senior Energy Specialist   AFTEG
Rahul Kitchlu            Energy Specialist          AFTEG
Lilian Brenda Namutebi   ET Consultant              AFTFM
Antoine V. Lema          Senior Social              AFTS1
                         Development Specialist
Chukwudi Okafor          Senior Social              AFTS1
                         Development Specialist
Alexandra Planas         Consultant                 AFTWR
Donald Mphande           Lead Financial
                         Management Specialist
Desta Solomon            ET Consultant              AFTCS
Tadesse Techan           Financial Management
                         Specialist
Raima Oyeneyin           Program Assistant          AFTEG
Lemlem Workalemahu       Program Assistant
Simon Chirwa             Senior Procurement         AFTPE
                         Specialist
Yeshi Gizaw              Program Assistant          AFTFE
Azeb Afework             Program Assistant
Chita Oje                Program Assistant          AFTG1
Srilata Kammila          Senior Energy Consultant   AFTG2




                                      42
b)   Staff Time and Cost

                                     Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of project cycle           No. of staff weeks       US$ thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY 04                                             7.27                         49.19
FY 05                                            17.94                         47.09
FY 06                                             6.95                         33.95
FY 07                                            21.26                        147.97
FY 08                                             6.22                         67.85
                         Total                   59.64                        346.05
Supervision/ICR
FY05                                              0.00                          0.00
FY06                                              0.00                          0.00
FY07                                              0.00                          0.00
FY08                                              9.90                         55.89
FY09                                             14.61                         58.16
FY10                                              4.97                         33.29
FY11                                             10.94                         65.45
FY12                                              7.54                         47.13
FY 13                                            13.14                         71.19
                         Total                   61.10                        331.11




                                         43
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower’s ICR (As provided by the Project Office)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Identification and Studies

The Ethiopia-Sudan Power Systems Interconnection Project was identified in 1982
during the Power System Master Plan Study by ACRES International of Canada. This
interconnection was under study a number of times in the name of updating because of
lack of taking to the next step of design and implementation as per the recommendations
given in the previous studies.

It was first studied in February 1988 followed by in September 1995, an update due to
elapse of time without proceeding to the design and implementation. Again, the project
did not proceed forward and discontinued due to political situation between the two
countries.

Further efforts were made by the two utilities (EEPCO of Ethiopia and NEC of Sudan)
and broke the stalemate and signed an MOU in March 2001.

Project Supervision

It is to be noted that this project was initially have been under the supervision of
Corporate Planning Department until the September 1995 study. After the MOU was
signed, a separate project office was established in March 2001 with full project
authorities. From the date of its establishment a number of activities were done. To
mention a few:

          •   Surveying of the Central Route (Debre Markos-Injibara-Mankush-
              Roseries) including the section in Sudan based on contract.
          •   Soliciting of finance for implementation
          •   Support in the ESIA/RAP studies by SMEC of Australia under the
              supervision of ENTRO/PCU
          •   Implementation of resettlement action plan (RAP)
          •   Follow-up the contract packages and their implementations
          •   Contract negotiation with Sudan
          •   Construction Agreement (CA)
          •   Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
          •   Operation & Maintenance Agreement (O&MA)




                                          44
Relation with NBI

The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) is a partnership of the riparian states of the Nile. The NBI
seeks to develop the Nile River in a cooperative manner, share substantial socioeconomic
benefits, and promote regional peace and security. The “Ethiopia/Nile Basin Initiative
Power Export Project: Ethiopia-Sudan Interconnector” is being developed under the
umbrella of the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP) of the Nile Basin
Initiative (NBI).

The NBI has been divided into two sub-groupings: the Eastern Nile sub-region, that
comprises Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan, and the Nile Equatorial Lakes sub-region, that
comprises Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan,
Tanzania, Uganda and South Sudan. The Ethiopia-Sudan interconnector has been
developed under the auspices of the ENSAP. The Eastern Nile countries are pursuing
cooperative development at the sub-basin level through the investment-oriented Eastern
Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP).

The Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) has been established by the three
Eastern Nile countries to advance the implementation of the ENSAP, which is aimed at
the reduction of poverty in the region, economic growth, and the reversal of
environmental degradation. Towards this end, in 2001, the Eastern Nile countries
identified their first joint project, the Integrated Development of the Eastern Nile (IDEN),
which consists of a series of seven sub-projects addressing issues related to flood
management, power development and interconnection, irrigation and drainage, watershed
management, and multipurpose water resources management and development in Eastern
Nile.

In 2004, ‘fast tracking’ of those IDEN investment sub-projects which could demonstrate
early results of cooperation, including: (a) the Ethiopia-Sudan interconnector; (b) the
flood preparedness and early warning project; (c) watershed management projects in each
EN country, (d) irrigation and drainage projects in each country, and (e) the Eastern Nile
planning model.

Project Packages

Under Corporate Planning Department
There were two contracts supervised under the Corporate Planning Department. These
were:
The February 1988 Study

The September 1995 Study Update




                                            45
Under Project Office

The project was packaged as follows.

Contract: ESPSIP-A1 Feasibility Study Update
(completed in February 2006)

Contract: ESPSIP-A2 Engineering Consultancy
(completed in December 2008)

Contract: ESPSIP-B         Supervision Consultancy
(completed in December 2010)

Contract: ESPSIP-C Construction of 230 kV Transmission Line
(completed in August 2011)

Contract: ESPSIP-D Extension of 230 kV Substation including Telecommunications
(completed in June 2013)

Contract: ESPSIP-E        Capacity Building
(completed in June 2013)
Implementation WB Financed Contracts

Contract: ESPSIP-B

A supervision consultant was recruited by the Project Office and the contract was signed
on 17 September 2008. The contract was signed with a consortium of Hifab Oy/Finland
and Fichtner/Germany. The signed contract was a time-based with total of 20 months.
Due to time limitation and EEPCO’s refusal for the requested time extension by the
Supervision Consultant, the contract was terminated on 7 December 2010.

Contract: ESPSIP-C

A turn-key contract was awarded to Energoinvest of Bosnia & Herzegovina for the
construction of 230 kV transmission lines. The scope of the works were construction of
230 kV transmission line from

Bahir Dar to Gonder: new single circuit, 138 km

Gonder-Shehedi: stringing of the second circuit on existing tower, 122 km

Shehedi-Metema: new double circuit, 37 km

The contract was signed on 18 December 2008 and the contractual completion date, after
fulfillment of the conditions for effectiveness, was 12 October 2010. The Gonder-
Shehedi-Metema section of the line was completed in July 2010. The constructions of the

                                          46
line section between Bahir Dar and Gonder were completed in August 2011. It has been
observed that there was about 10 months delay from the contractual completion date.

Contract: ESPSIP-D

A turn-key contract was awarded to Sunir Co. of Iran for substation extension works. The
contract was signed on 18 December 2008 and the contractual completion date, after
fullfillment of the conditions for effectiveness, was 12 January 2011. The scopes of the
works were;

Bahir Dar substation: extension for one 230 kV line bay

Gonder substation: extension of two 230 kV line bays and installation of one, 15 MVAr
line-end shunt reactor

Shehedi substation: extension of three 230 V line bays and installation of one, 15 MVAr
line-end shunt reactor

In addition to the above works, installation of telecommunication facilities in the three
substation including point-to-point voice communications and data exchange between the
substations and national Load dispatch Centers in Ethiopia and Sudan, were the
responsibility of Sunir Co.

Almost all equipment were supplied and installed as well as tested in all the substations
except the delivery and installation of communication and SCADA equipment and one
reactor at Gonder substation before August 2011. Sunir was unable to transfer money to
the manufacturers of communication equipment (Ericsson AB of Dubai), SCADA
equipment (Alstom Grid SAS of France), and reactor (TBEA Hengyang Transformers
Ltd. of China) due to economic embargo imposed on Iran. After getting clearance from
the World bank, EEPCO made direct contract with the three manufacturers in November
2012 and received the equipment, which were, then, installed and tested by the main
contractor, Sunir Co., before end of June 30 2013.

It has been observed that there was about 30 months delay from the contractual
completion date.

Contract: ESPSIP-E

This is a package intended to build Ethiopia’s capacity to implement effective cross-
border trade through capacity buildings. The capacity building and training needs
assessment report was prepared under Contract: ESPSIP-B. More time was elapsed after
the completion of the report in February 2010 before executing this package of contract.
It has been observed that the allotted budget was very small, which is100, 000 USD.

Due to limited time left, the Bank advised EEPCO to use single source selection (SSS)
method to procure consultants for trainings which are so important for EEPCO. Here in

                                           47
this case, trainings for Load Dispatch Center (LDC) on energy management tools and for
Power System Planning Office (PSPO) on PSS/E software application were selected.
Direct contracting was made with Alstom Grid SAS/France for LDC staff training,
whereas, with Siemens Industry Inc. /USA for PSPO staff training.

The negotiated contract with Alstom Grid SAS was not signed because of budget
limitation. Similarly, the negotiated contract with Siemens was not signed because of
time limitation. This means, no capacity building activities were undertaken in this
project.

ESIA and RAP

ESIA and RAP Study

The study of Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) for Ethiopia-Sudan Interconnector was conducted by SMEC
International of Australia and completed in February 2006. The finance was obtained
from the World Bank through ENTRO. ENTRO was responsible for the supervision of
the study.

ESIA and RAP Implementation

The implementation of the ESIA and RAP was the responsibility of EEPCO. EEPCO,
through the Project Office, has implemented the relocation of houses and removal of trees
and crops from the right of way (ROW) of the transmission line sections from Bahir Daer
to Gonder and further to Shehedi and Metema.

The cost of compensation made to the project affected people (PAP) was in the amount
of 25,107,416.50 ETB (US$1.39 million). The total PAPs, who were affected by the
project, are 4,490.
Finance Allocation and Disbursement




                                           48
The table below depicts the finance allocation and disbursed amount for the project
components.

                                                             Disbursed
                                                 Budget
Name of Contracts     Financiers                             Amount         Difference
                                                 (MUSD)
                                                             (MUSD)         (MUSD)
Supervision
                      World Bank                 1.40        1.80           0.4
Consultancy
Construction of 230
                      World Bank                 27.40       27.45          0.05
kV Tie-Line
Extension of 230
kV Substations
including             World Bank                 12.15       11.62          0.53
Telecommunication
s
Training of EEPCO
                      World Bank                 0.10        _              (0.10)
Staff
Total                                            41.05       40.87          0.88




                                           49
Summary of Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR

MoFED Comments:

Data Sheet: Don’t we need to include Implementing Agency Performance rating under
Borrower rating?

Para-5:        “(Tekeze – 300MW, Gilgel Gibe II – 420 MW, Beles – 460MW) which
all are currently commissioned. EEPCo also had plans to add more capacity over the
coming 5-10 years”

Para-29:      Revise as “EEPCo did not agree to revise targets down”.

Para-38(vi): Rephrase “readiness for procurement and financing for the construction of
Sudan’s portion of the interconnection ensured timely completion”.

Para-68:        Fix as “power exported from Ethiopia”. Mention that the current low level
of export is based on Sudan’s demand. Similarly, clarify in para 45.

Para-78:      electricity “exports” (not imports).

Para-87(e):   Replace NEC with SETCO.

Para-106:      “don’t see the difference between the Government performance and the
Borrower Performance. I know MoFED is the borrower but it is a borrower on behalf of
the Government. Therefore, I don’t see the relevance of these separate rating for the two.
In addition, the justification given in this paragraph as to why overall borrower
performance rating to be moderately satisfactory is not right because it is combining the
rating for Gov’t and IA”

Para-114:     Replace NEC with SETCO.

ANNEX 5: Revise para 2 to more succinct description of the political situation; make
consistent the PAP figures and compensation.

General:      Other editorial corrections throughout the document.

EEPCo Comments:

Para-27:       At the time of contract signing in December 2008, there were      not any
economic sanctions on Iran. But there were rumors to be applied. It was after    contract
signing that the economic embargoes were imposed consequently on Iran and        later on
Iranian companies in different aspects, like embargo on export commodities,      banking
system, etc.




                                           50
Para-31:      The final feasibility study for the works for the interconnection was done
in February 2006 not in 2004. Please also mention that the February 2006 final feasibility
study was financed jointly by the two Utilities (EEPCO and NEC) which show their
commitment to the project.

Para-32:       The project was designed for two years of construction and three years
(not two years) of operation on the agreed tariff of 5 US Cents/kWh in the PPA after
which price renegotiation shall be made which will again determine the time of operation.

Para-42:        Please elaborate taking the following information. The Bank’s
recommendation was to connect the completed and commissioned Gonder-Shehedi line
part of the project and that of the existing one to the lines from Shehedi-Metema, already
completed and commissioned, by-passing the Shehedi substation and operating from
Gonder substation. This recommendation was solely because of lack of communication
equipment in Shehedi substation at the time. EEPCO’s reluctance to this recommendation
was because of NEC’s commitment to procure and install the missing communication
facility in Shehedi the cost of which will be deducted from export earnings.

Para-68:       ………….power exported from (not “to”) Ethiopia…….

Para-80 (Table-2): Please check the results of NPV and IRR for scenario-2 and
scenario-3. How could it be that the NPV and IRR figures for Scenario-2 become bigger
than Scenario-1, while having a reduction in tariff from 5.5 US Cents/kWh in Scenario-1
to 5 US Cents/kWh in Scenario-2. It should be lower. The same is true between Scenario-
1 and Scenario-3 in reverse way. This might be the results of Scenario-2 and Scenario-3
were exchanged.

Annex-1 (Page 33): Please be informed that at the time of Loan Agreement the LDC is
under construction. There was a training package in that particular project in which
EEPCO envisaged to contribute some finance for the Component 2b-1: LDC Training.
This has to be confirmed with LDC Project whether EEPCO contributed the allotted
finance or not. Similarly, disbursed amount for Component 2b-3 shall be checked with
EEPCO. These two components were not in Ethiopia-Sudan Interconnection Project
jurisdiction. The original intension of Component 2b-2 is to give trainings based on the
study conducted by Supervision Engineer “Capacity Building and Training Need
Assessment Report”. Later on we were advised by the Bank to use the money allotted
from the Loan, the project office started to use the money for additional specific training
for LDC and for PSPO, which were not materialized due to budget and time limitations.

Annex-2 (Page-34): Check the performance of the following components as said above.
          • Strengthening of LDC
          • Competitive new generation scheme

Annex-3 /Table-2/ (Page-38):         See comments on para-80 (Table-2)




                                            51
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Project and Financing Agreements, January 2008
Construction Agreement, April 2008
Power Purchase Agreement, August 2009
Operations and Maintenance Agreement, August 2009
Project Progress Reports
Aide-memoire and Implementation Support Reports
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Growth and Transformation Plan (2010/11–
2014/15)




                                        52
                ile
            N



                                                         Red




                                                               Sea




                         Blu
                              e

                                  Nil
                                   e
                                                  Lake
                                                  Tana
                        ile
                White N



                                                                                                             Gulf of Aden




                                                                                                                                                             INDIAN
S O U T H
                                                                                                                                                             OCEAN
S U D A N
                                                                                Wa
                                                                                     bi
                                                                                            Sh
                                                                                                 eb
                                                                                                      ele




                                                                 Ga
                                                                     nal
                                                                      e
                                                                           D
                                                                           or
                                                                               ya
                                                                                                              GSDPM
                                                                                                              Map Design Unit

                                           Lake                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                        Turkana                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                              NOVEMBER 2013
