Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
RePOrt No. 13222
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2429-TUN)
JUNE 27, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average                  US$ 1 =  .69
Intervening Year Average                       US$ 1 =  .87
Completion Year Average                        US$ 1 =  1.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                    British/US System
1 centimeter (cm)                =       0.39 inches (inch)
1 meter (m)                      =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =       0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)              =      10.76 square feet (sq. ft)
1 square kilometer (kM2)                 0.38 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m/ton)             =       0.98 long ton (1g. ton)
1 liter (L)                      =       0.26 gallon (G)
GLOSSARY
CITU         -      Cellule Technique de Transport Urbain
Urban Transport Technical Unit
DGPC         -      Direction G6n6rale des Ponts et Chaus6es
Highway Department
MEQH         -      Minist&re de l'Equipement et l'Habitat
Ministry of Equipment and Housing
MLT          -      M6tro L6ger de Tunis
Tunis Light Rail System
MOT          -      Minist6re des Transports
Ministry of Transport
PDRT         -      Plan Directeur Regional de Transport
Regional Transport Master Plan
SNT          -      Soci6t6 Nationale de Transports
National Transport Company
SORETRAS  -         Soci6t6 R6gionale de Transports de Sfax
Regional Transport Company of Sfax
TUNISIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Second Urban Transport Project (Loan 2429-TUN)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Second Urban Transport Project
(Loan 2429-TUN)". The US$33 million Loan was approved in May 1984 and closed on June 30,
1993, one year behind schedule. The Loan has been fully disbursed. The PCR was prepared by the
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office and Part II contains the Borrower's obseivations.
The project's original composition envisaged primary road improvements in Greater Tunis,
public transport improvements in Sfax, and institution-building measures, including training, technical
assistance, and preparation of urban transport planning studies. In 1987, at Government's request,
the loan agreement was modified. The Sfax component was replaced by a new component to
improve roads and traffic in the municipality of Tunis, and the institution-building effort was
expanded to include all agencies involved in project implementation.
The PCR contains an adequate account of project preparation, implementation and results.
Final project cost was US$72.1 million, US$5.3 million more than the estimated cost of the
restructured project. The 8% overrun was primarily due to geotechnical problems associated with
road improvements in Greater Tunis. The restructured project achieved its physical goals. The re-
estimated economic rate of return for primary road improvements is 45%, as opposed to 36%
estimated at appraisal. Institutional strengthening had mixed results. Implementation of a sector,
policy based cooperation between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Equipment and
Housing did not materialize. The Urban Transport Technical Unit established under the project was
dissolved after 1987 and its staff absorbed in the Ministry of Transport. Training essentially consisted
of management participation in various colloquia and seminars. Nevertheless, the project did
contribute to the increase of specialists and technicians in the various fields associated with urban
transport. Overall the project is rated as satisfactory, the sustainability of its benefits as likely, and
its institutional impact as modest.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2429-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report describes the preparation, appraisal, and implementation
of the Second Urban Transport Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 2429-TUN in the amount of
US$33 million was signed on August 28, 1984 and became effective on June 26, 1985. This
loan was to have been closed on June 30, 1992; however, the closing date was extended once
to June 30, 1993 to allow for completion of a vital road structure south of Tunis. The full loan
amount of US$33 million was ultimately disbursed, the last disbursement having been made on
January 13, 1994.
Parts I and III of this report were prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Maghreb
and Iran Department, Middle East and North Africa Region. They were based on information
from the files of the EMENA Information Center and completion mission which took place in
Tunisia in early March 1994. Part II was prepared by a local consulting firm under the direction
of the District of Tunis, regional planning agency responsible for project coordination.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2429-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background
1.     By 1980, 55% of the Tunisian population of 6.4 million was urbanized and Greater Tunis,
home to 1.2 million residents, was growing at a rate of 6.9% p.a. This rapid urbanization took place
in the face of inappropriate government policies for public transport companies, inadequate services
to both the poor and the middle class, lack of an urban development strategy for the city of Tunis,
and dearth of qualified staff in institutions serving the urban transport subsector. In 1982, just after
the Bank's first urban transport project in Tunis had ended, the Bank issued a study of the urban
transport subsector in Tunisia. Abandoning the single-city approach used in the first project, the
study called for an assistance strategy that would adopt a sectorwide perspective, emphasize policy
reform and institution building, and reinforce liaisons with non-urban transport projects.
Project Objectives and Description
2.     In keeping with the above strategy, the Second Urban Transport Project was designed to
increase the level and improve the efficiency of transport services in Tunis and Sfax, strengthen the
capacity of sector institutions to manage and plan urban transport systems, and formulate and
implement a global policy for urban transport. It consisted of: (a) primary road improvements in
Greater Tunis to permit through traffic to bypass the city center and achieve a more adequate
distribution of downtown-generated traffic; (b) provision of bus maintenance facilities, bus stops, and
terminals in Sfax, the country's second largest city, as well as a management information system for
the regional transport company (SORETRAS); and (c) institutional development, including a pilot
national training program for urban public transport professionals, direct technical assistance to sector
institutions, and urban transport policy and planning studies. SORETRAS was to be restructured
under the project and meet a set of productivity and financial targets.
3.     By 1986, the Tunisian Government decided to embark on a large-scale program to reform
public enterprises with Bank support. Rather than restructure SORETRAS separately and ahead
of other enterprises, the Government requested that the SORETRAS component be dropped from
the Second Urban Transport Project. At this stage, the primary roads improvement component was
well underway, whereas the institution building component was either progressing slowly or not at
all (e.g., training). In December 1987, following a mid-term review, the Bank agreed to modify the
loan agreement. Without changing the original goals of the project, the new agreement eliminated
the participation of SORETRAS, reallocating the most of the remaining SORETRAS funds (US$4.6
million out of US$6.0 million) to a new component aimed at improving roads and traffic within the
city limits of Tunis. The Municipality of Tunis was added to the list of implementing agencies, thus



- iii -
Thereafter, supervision of the Second Urban Transport Project was expanded to cover public
enterprise reforms, which had been formally agreed under another Bank loan (Public Enterprise
Reform Loan, or PERL).
Implementation Experience
4.     Several subcomponents suffered long delays. In one case, unstable soil conditions required
redesign of foundations for a major interchange near downtown Tunis and caused a six-month delay.
In the case of an interchange in southern Tunis, the bidding process went through two cycles, since
the lowest evaluated bid was substantially above the engineer's estimate. The procurement process
was slowed down by several managerial changes within the administration. The ensuing start-up delay
was more than a year long and construction executed by a relatively inexperienced firm was even
slower. On the other hand, street and traffic improvements being carried out by the Municipality of
Tunis were achieved within the specified time frame. The parking plan together with physical
changes such as right-of-way lanes for buses and the installation of traffic signals was put into effect
in October 1989 to coincide with the opening of the Tunis Light Rail System (MLT).
5.     The training component got off to a late start, because internal disagreements prevented the
hiring of a training coordinator, a loan effectiveness condition; this delayed effectiveness by ten
months. Subsequently, the needs-based program developed by the national training study was
accepted by the review committee after several redrafts, but ultimately was not accepted by the
beneficiary agencies. The component moved only after it was transformed into a line of credit for
training with an inter-agency committee to clear proposals before the Bank's review. Similar
disagreements and weak inter-agency coordination led to the postponement of the study on
commercial traffic in Greater Tunis, which was later cancelled due to insufficient time prior to loan
closure. The study on street maintenance in the city of Tunis was also cancelled due to insufficient
time after two rounds of tendering were unsuccessful. All the major studies, however, were
completed. The subcomponent involving computers, software, and related technical assistance was
allowed to extend throughout the life of the project, reflecting the rapid changes in agency needs in
this field.
6.     The project as a whole was completed three years late in 1993, although there were
considerable variations among project components. Large civil works proved to be the major source
of delays, since the institutional capacity for procurement and for followup on such works was
limited. Measures adopted at the time of project restructuring significantly facilitated procurement
and accelerated disbursement of loan funds.



- iv -
Results
7.        The restructured project fully achieved its investment-related objectives. The primary road
improvement component allowed through traffic to bypass the center of the city. Working in tandem
with a traffic restraint plan, area signal coordination, and parking fees, this investment greatly
improved central city traffic conditions for public transport and pedestrians. It also permitted a better
distribution of downtown traffic at entry and exit points, whose capacity at several major intersections
was being seriously impaired by the new MLT. The secondary road network was improved in the
outlying districts. The project achieved most of its institution-building objectives, though sometimes
not in the form originally envisaged. Under a new policy in the urban transport sector, several
transport enterprises were restructured both financially and managerially while other sources of urban
transport supply were being developed in the private sector. Its cancellation from the project
notwithstanding, SORETRAS carried out all the reforms envisaged under the initial project design.
The acquisition of computer hardware and software helped participating agencies improve and
upgrade many of their technical, administrative, and service functions. Planning and policy studies,
some carried out by joint teams of consultants and staff from local institutions, or with direct technical
assistance, were instrumental in upgrading the skills of a host of junior professionals competent to
undertake transport planning and policy development tasks. Transport planning surveys and software
developed under the project created a regional data base for Greater Tunis used in all subsequent
studies.
8.      The final project cost rose to US$72.1 million equivalent, representing an overrun of US$5.3
million equivalent, or 8% of estimates revised during project restructuring. This was principally due
to geotechnical problems with the primary roads improvement component. Despite cost and time
overruns, infrastructure improvements under the project yielded an economic rate of return (ERR)
of 45%. This was considerably higher than the 36% ERR forecast at appraisal as the project resulted
in greater time savings due to both higher than expected productivity and wage levels.
Sustainability
9.        The Government's sector-based policy promoted public enterprise reforms in the urban
transport subsector while introducing private provision of public transport services.  At the same
time, overall institutional capacity was enhanced through technical assistance, even though it has been
difficult to maintain expertise within given agencies. Following a major success of implanting
transport modelling and planning skills in the District of Tunis, this agency was recently redefined into
an internal technical service within the Ministry of Equipment and Housing. In its new, national role
the District may do well, but Greater Tunis has lost its sole regional planning agency, a competent
and independent voice in policy and investment decisions in the capital area.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
10.      The project suffered from having a plethora of implementing agencies, a consequence of
its ambitious, sectoral approach.  The implementation of complex project components was
compounded by weak interaction among executing agencies. The District of Tunis had neither
sufficient administrative authority nor human resources to monitor progress in overall project
implementation by the other agencies. In the future, the means available to the coordinating body
and its capacity to enforce project guidelines should be ensured, or the project design should be
changed. Overall, project objectives were too ambitious, given its lack of leverage over the sectoral
institution which had most changes to make, i.e. the Ministry of Transport (MOT).



- v -
changed. Overall, project objectives were too ambitious, given its lack of levcrage over the sectoral
institution which had most changes to make, i.e. the Ministry of Transport (MOT).
12.       Responsibility for urban transport in Greater Tunis is still dispersed among the ministerial,
regional, and municipal levels. Relationships involving the different consumers of transport services
(e.g., drivers, pedestrians, travelers), the agencies providing those services, and financing schemes are
still diffuse and undefined. The problems faced, during project implementation, in drawing up and
agreeing on performance contracts with public enterprises, the introduction of private transport
services, and the selection of future transport investments indicate that none of the sector institutions
is in a position adequately to represent the interests of the country's major urban agglomeration.
MOT's functional range is too narrow, whereas the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Tunis is
restricted geographically. It is, therefore, essential to set up a governmental authority with the
capacity to plan and manage urban transport infrastructure and services, as well as the power to
mobilize resources, sign contracts, and recruit qualified personnel. On the other hand, the
coordination of future urban transport projects among implementing agencies may be impractical;
needed are (a) a planning committee with representatives from the ministerial and other public
agencies and the private sector, (b) the capacity to carry out civil works, and (c) one or more local
consulting firms capable of carrying out studies.
13.       The benefits from ad-hoc, demand-driven training are difficult to evaluate in precise terms.
It might have been much simpler to take a supply-side approach, i.e., identify and concentrate on
upgrading local training institutions and programs that serve the sector. Such an approach is now
being taken under the leadership of the District of Tunis. If it is successfully managed, it should
ensure greater project sustainability by increasing the number of highly trained specialists and
technicians in the various fields associated with urban transport such as, inter alia, planning,
engineering, transport economics, and traffic and parking management. On the other hand, an ad-hoc
approach, guided by sound criteria to judge individual training proposals, can work and did work
under this project. Informal evidence indicates strongly that the training component improved both
the quality of the urban transport debate in technical and policy circles in Tunisia and increased the
number of qualified participants. One of the most important outcomes of the institution building
effort was full local transport planning capacity, including modelling and forecasting, as an end
product of staff training involving a private consulting firm that not only provides services only
throughout Tunisia but also has been successful in competing for contracts in Europe and sub-
Saharan Africa.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2429-TUN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name       : Second Urban Transport Project
Loan No.      : 2429-TUN
Amount        : US$33 Million
Region        : Middle East and North Africa
Country       : Tunisia
Sector        : Transport
Subsector     : Urban Transport
2. Project Background
2.1         Between 1956 and 1980, Tunisia experienced rapid urban growth and was confronted
by problems of inadequate infrastructure and services, a housing shortage, and high unemployment.
By 1980, 55% of the Tunisian population of 6.4 million was urbanized, compared with 33% in 1956.
Growing at a rate of 6.9% p.a., Greater Tunis alone was home to 1.2 million residents; the second
most populous urban area was Greater Sfax with a population of 310,000.
2.2         Urban public transport, chiefly buses running on city streets, is vital for the functioning
of Tunisian cities. At the time of surveys completed in the mid-1970s, public transport accounted for
approximately 70% of daily non-walk travel in the Tunis area, and approximately 36% in Sfax where
the size, topography, and density of the city favored the use of cycles.
2.3         The most pressing problems faced by urban transportation at the beginning of the
1980s were: (a) inappropriate government policies for public transport companies; (b) two poorly-
serviced population sectors: the poor, who relied on public transport, and the middle class, who
mainly used private vehicles; (c) lack of an urban development strategy for the city of Tunis; and (d)
dearth of qualified staff in institutions involved in urban transport.
2.4         The Bank's first involvement with the sector had been the Tunis District Urban
Planning and Public Transport Project, financed by an $18 million credit and loan approved in 1973



- 2 -
class, who mainly use private vehicles; (c) lack of an urban development strategy for the city
of Tunis; and (d) dearth of qualified staff in institutions involved in urban transport.
2.4          The Bank's first involvement with the sector had been Tunis District Urban
Planning and Public Transport Project, financed by an $18 million credit and loan approved in
1973 and closed in 1981. This project financed major capital investments for National Transport
Company (Societe Nationale des Transports - SNT), the public transport enterprise serving
Tunis, and for traffic management improvements by the Mqunicipality of Tunis.  SNT
investments included bus fleet expansion, new bus depots, and upgrading of a suburban rail line
(TGM). On the institutional side, the project helped transform the District of Tunis into a
functioning regional planning agency, assisted the formation of a traffic management unit in the
municipal administration, and financed the country's first urban transport planning and policy
studies.  The project was considered successful, but some of its achievements were not
sustained, particularly those concerned with the financial standing and the productivity of SNT,
and reserved lanes for public transport vehicles. This experience provided the impetus to study
the urban transport sector in several Tunisian cities, searching for an approach that would
increase the sustainability of improvements. The study was completed in 1982, its results
serving as basis for the next ten years of Bank involvement in this sector. The study proposed
an assistance strategy for urban transport in Tunisia which would: (a) adopt a sectorwide
perspective in collaboration with national institutions; (b) emphasize policy reforms and
institutional development; (c) reinforce the liaisons with non-urban transport projects; and (d)
provide massive funds for technical assistance in addition to investments for infrastructure and
equipment. The Bank's support brought about a flux of projects and studies, some of them
cofinanced, or parallel-financed with other multilateral or bilateral organizations, assuring the
continuity necessary for an effective urban strategy.
2.5          Since the 1970s, the Bank has provided Tunisia with 24 loans for infrastructure
projects, consisting of four urban development, three sewerage, five water supply, and 12
transport projects. In the transport sector, Bank assistance has been given to six highway, one
railway, three port, and two urban transport projects.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1          Project objectives. In the Tunisian urban transport sector, the Bank recognized
three main objectives, to:
(a)     improve the level of urban transport services offered to users in Tunis and Sfax,
and increase efficiency in supplying these services; and improve the quality and
efficiency urban public transport in Tunis and Sfax;
(b)     strengthen the capacity of sector institutions to manage and plan urban transport
systems; and
(c)     formulate and implement a global policy for urban transport.



- 3 -
3.2         Project description. The main components of the project were the following:
A.     Primary road improvements in Greater Tunis. The general objective of these
improvements was to permit through traffic to bypass the city center and to
achieve a more adequate distribution of inbound and outbound traffic. It consisted
of:
(a)  infrastructure investments:
i.    construction of an interchange at the intersection of GP8 and GP9 with a
connection to Route X2;
ii.   completion of a second carriageway for Route X2 (which was a two-lane
section) between GPlO and GP9, over one 1.3 km in distance;
iii.   construction of an overpass of Route Z4 at Rue Cyprus-Le-Grand (Palais
de Congres), where there was no intersection;
iv.   construction of an overpass (Viaduc de l'Avenue de la Republique) about
500 meters long, along Route Z4 over both Avenue Bourguiba and Line
1 of the Tunis Light Rail System (SMLT), which connects the SMLT with
both the railway terminal and the port of Tunis;
V.    upgrading of Route Z4 from Viaduc de la Republique to the intersection
with GP1 (from the present seven-meter carriageway, to a full 2x2-lane
section), over a 1.6 km distance;
vi.   completion of a second carriageway on Route Z4, from the intersection
with GP1 to Megrine (to achieve a full 2x2-lane section where only a
single seven-meter carriageway existed), over a distance of 2.5 km);
vii.  construction of the Intercommunale Sud (2x2 lane section) between GP1
and Route Z4, over a distance of 0.7 km; and
viii.  construction of the Penetrante Sud, a 1.9-km long freeway, connecting the
southern exit to Route Z4. This included two interchanges (one at each
end), and an above-grade crossing of the national railway lines.
(b)     professional engineering services, requiring approximately 225 staff-
months to:
i.    prepare detailed engineering for road links executed in the second and
subsequent years of project implementation; and
ii.   supervise construction for all the road improvements.



B.      Public transport improvements in Sfax, consisting of:
(a)      bus maintenance: construction and outfitting of a 250-bus maintenance
facility in the industrial district being developed near the new fishing port;
(b)      improvement of bus stops and terminals: construction of about 100 bus
shelters, paving of waiting areas at bus stops, improvement of the bus
depot at Zeghm, and reorganization and paving at the Bab Jebli, Enfants
de Bourguiba, and Dakar bus terminals;
(c)      professional engineering services:  about 30 staff-months to complete
detailed preparation of the bus maintenance facility and to oversee its
construction;
(d)      management information system: purchase of computer hardware and
software, initially for management of schedule and duty rosters, spare
parts management, cost accounting, and integration of cost and financial
accounts; and
(e)      technical assistance  to  the  regional transport company  of Sfax
(SORETRAS): three experts (for about 1.5 years each), to introduce new
work practices in operations, maintenance, and administration, and
subsequently provide intermittent followup.
C.      Institution building, consisting of:
(a)      training program: implementation of a pilot national training program, the
design of which was financed under the Third Urban Development Project
(Loan 2223-Tun) and included a two-year university-level training in
transport engineering and economics for four persons, workshops and
seminars for about 30 professionals (some of these workshops addressing
specifically the issues of traffic enforcement and related policy training),
training for three trainers in bus maintenance, short traineeships for about
36 participants, and public information campaigns;
(b)      technical assistance to MOT:  30 staff-months for coordinating and
evaluating the training program, up to about 52 staff-months of technical
assistance for future project preparation and for the follow-up of policy
studies related to productivity, fares, and finances of regional transport
companies (SRTs) and involvement of private transport operators;
(c)      technical assistance for traffic management: 33 staff-months of technical
assistance to the Municipality of Tunis for implementing gradually, as
construction of the SMLT permits, a traffic engineering plan, including



one-way street system, signs and markings, channelization of
intersections, and traffic lights;
(d)     transport planning study for Greater Tunis: this study would assess urban
development, transport demand, and related investments to the year 2000.
It would include the collection of up-to-date demographic, economic and
transport demand/supply information, consideration of multi-modal
investment alternatives and related policies, and development of
transport/land use modelling capability in the District of Tunis. Computer
hardware and software were to be provided separately to the District of
Tunis, along with technical assistance; and
(e)     transport Rlanning study for Greater Sfax: the objective of this study was
the integration of public transport, highway and traffic management plans
with the Greater Sfax urban development plan for the 1990-2000 period.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    The Highway Department (DGPC) through the Tunis Regional Directorate (DRT) of
the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MEQH) was placed in charge of completing primary
road improvements in Greater Tunis. SORETRAS would be responsible for overseeing public
transport improvement in Sfax. The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOT) would
be responsible for studies, technical assistance, and training; it also would oversee the
SORETRAS component, given its tutelary role in relation to all public enterprises in the
transport sector.
S. Project Restructuring
5.1         By 1986, the Tunisian Government and the Bank had started to discuss a large-
scale program to restructure public enterprises in several industrial and service sectors, including
the transport sector. This program would be supported under the upcoming Bank-financed
Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL). Rather than restructure SORETRAS separately and
ahead of other enterprises, the Government requested that the SORETRAS component be
dropped from the Second Urban Transport Project. Given the importance of this component,
the Bank decided to conduct a mid-term review of the project with a view to restructuring it to
suit the new circumstances and the early implementation experience. The primary roads
improvement component was already well underway, whereas the institution-building component,
particularly the training program, was not showing much progress. The training program was
not moving because: (a) the bilateral funding needed to cover nearly 60% of the costs was not
forthcoming, (b) the training study did not produce a training program for the sector acceptable
to all client agencies, and (c) the institutions involved in the project preferred to develop and
improve their own training programs rather than adhere to a centralized program mandated by
MOT.



- 6 -
5.2         In December 1987, based on the results of the mid-term review, the Bank agreed
to modify the loan agreement. Without changing the original goals of the project, the new
agreement eliminated the participation of SORETRAS, reallocating most of the funds originally
earmarked for SORETRAS to a new component aimed at improving roads and traffic in the
municipality of Tunis. The institution building effort was expanded to include all the agencies
involved in project implementation. Policy objectives regarding public transport enterprises were
to be pursued under the forthcoming PERL operation. The result of restructuring was a
reduction in the estimated cost of the project by US$15.7 million and in the training component
from US$3.26 million to US$0.63 million. The overall Bank contribution to project financing
was increased from 40% to 49% of the total cost with the same loan amount of US$33 million.
5.3          The major project component, primary road improvements in Greater Tunis,
remained unchanged. In light of a reduction in cost estimates from US$64.4 million, including
contingencies, to US$54.7, including contingencies, for this component, it now represented 82%
of the total cost of the project, compared with 78% at appraisal. The cost of the civil works
represented 87% of that component, compared with 82% at appraisal. The new streets and
traffic improvements component consisted of: (a) restoration of approximately 70 km of roads
(35% arterial, 39% secondary, and 29% tertiary) including roads, drainage, sidewalks, signs,
and traffic lights; (b) implementation of the second phase of the traffic circulation and
management plan in the center of Tunis; (c) construction of priority areas for both public
transport vehicles and pedestrians, including bus lanes and pedestrian streets; and (d) provision
of specialized engineering services to prepare the feasibility studies and the bidding documents,
and to supervise the execution of civil works. Project-financed training was extended to DGPC,
District of Tunis, Municipality of Tunis, and Municipality of Sfax. Professionals working in
these agencies would be trained through short courses in Tunis or abroad, as well as training
programs in Tunisian universities and university scholarships abroad. Co-financing of this
component was dropped. The institution building component was expanded by introducing a
Traffic Management Unit into DRT to take care of traffic problems outside the boundaries of
the Municipality of Tunis. The scope of policy and planning studies was broadened to examine
management strategies for roads and public transport, including: (i) master plan studies for
regional transportation (PDRTs), to be carried out by the District of Tunis and the Municipality
of Sfax with expert assistance; (ii) a study of commercial traffic in Greater Tunis, to be carried
out by the District of Tunis in collaboration with MOT; (iii) a study of transport in Sfax, to be
carried out by the Municipality of Sfax; (iv) a detailed survey of the roads in Tunis, a study on
road maintenance, and the organization of municipal engineering services, to be carried out by
the Municipality of Tunis; and (v) updating the study on solid waste, to be carried out jointly
by the District of Tunis and the Municipality of Tunis. Equipment needed to support various
technical, administrative, and service functions would be procured. It would consist of computer
hardware and software, parking meters, and laboratory equipment.
5.4         Project restructuring  brought on major changes in implementation and
management. The Municipality of Tunis oversaw the traffic improvements. The District of
Tunis, the regional planning authority for Greater Tunis, was designed to share responsibility
for institution building with MOT and take over project coordination. This would ensure proper
liaison among implementing agencies and improved project monitoring. A project coordinator



would collect and transmit to the Bank quarterly progress and audit reports, as well as provide
information concerning project administration. MOT would continue to develop a global policy
governing all aspects of urban transport.
6. Implementation Experience
6.1         Project Timetable.  According to the loan agreement, from  inception to
completion, the project was to have been completed by the end of 1990. The completion date
was not amended in 1987 at the time of project restructuring.  Although delays occurred
intermittently affecting different components of the project, as a whole, the project was
completed three years late in 1993. Notably, at the time of project restructuring, measures were
adopted to facilitate project implementation and loan disbursement:
*      local contractors were permitted to bid on projects under US$500,000;
*      contracts by mutual agreement were authorized for utility relocation work with
the contractors involved;
e      a special account was established to accelerate disbursements; and
3      the withdrawal of funds was further simplified with the introduction of the
statements of expenditure for the training element, which required many small
expenditures.
6.2          Primar Roads of Greater Tunis. Under this component, the project financed the
construction of two interchange complexes and an overpass on the lake-side road (Z4) just east
of the downtown Tunis; other at-grade improvements were also carried out on the Z4 corridor,
as well as on some arterial roads in the north of the city. Main implementation problems were
due to the instability of the soil in the Z4 corridor, delays in land expropriation, and slow
procurement activities. The problem of the unstable ground had been anticipated during project
appraisal, but was not resolved due to a common resistance by the Borrower to invest in
preventive engineering. Procurement problems occurred when it became necessary to re-bid on
a major contract (interchange complex in south Tunis), since the lowest evaluated bid was
substantially above the engineer's cost estimate. The second bidding cycle, including a new
round of pre-qualification, was even slower to process than the first due to frequent changes in
administrators in DGPC in the latter half of the project. The total impact of these obstacles was
a six-month delay in completing the major GP8/GP9/X2 interchange and a much longer delay
in constructing overpass on the southern freeway, the last missing link in upgrading the route
Z4 to expressway standards. In fact, this contract turned out to be on the critical path for
project completion.
6.3         Road and Traffic Improvement in Tunis.  The rehabilitation of streets along
existing bus routes, construction of streets and sidewalks along future bus routes in new
neighborhoods, and the implementation of traffic and parking plans were achieved within the
specified time frame. Other physical changes such as right-of-way lanes for buses and the



- 8 -
installation of traffic signals were completed by October 1989 to coincide with the opening of
the Light Rail System (SMLT). In fact, implementation was generally uneventful owing to the
Municipality's many years' experience in carrying out physical works of that nature and
excellent working relations with the Bank. In addition, an inventory of city streets was
completed as planned, but the street maintenance study was never fully "owned" by the technical
directorate of the Municipality and did not get done. A parallel street rehabilitation and traffic
management project, modelled after the Bank-financed operation, was concurrently implemented
by the Municipality of Tunis with financing in the amount of US$8 million equivalent from Arab
Economic and Social Development Fund. Some subcomponents were actually switched between
the two operations to facilitate bidding through grouping like items together, i.e., the Bank loan
financed the entire traffic signal component and the Arab Fund loan financed civil works for
intersection improvements.
6.4         Institution Building. Training and technical assistance got off to a late start and
lasted throughout the project. This delay was the result of internal disagreements on the goals
of the training program and the failure at the outset to develop a needs-based training plan
acceptable to all the agencies involved. There was also a question of the executing agency for
the program, since the Tunisian Administrative Code was too unwieldy for the processing of
many small demands and claims needed in training. The component moved only after it was
re-conceptualized into a demand-driven line of credit, administered by the District of Tunis, but
managed through a multi-agency selection committee, and required Bank clearance for every
single application. The program was not entirely ad hoc, the District having carried out in 1990
a sectoral training needs assessment and set up a three-year (1991-1994) training program for
professional staff and higher technicians. Another casualty of weak project coordination during
the early implementation stage was the study on commercial traffic in Greater Tunis. It was
postponed and later cancelled due to lack of time to implement it before loan closure. All the
other studies were completed. Computers hardware and software were acquired one year late.
7. Results
7.1         Project Cost The cost of the final project rose from US$72.1 million, compared
with US$82.5 million equivalent estimated at appraisal and US$66.8 million equivalent estimated
at the time of project restructuring. This overrun of US$5.3 million, or 8%, was due principally
to the Greater Tunis primary roads improvement component, which overspent its budget by
US$3.3 million equivalent owing to geotechnical problems. Due to these cost overruns and the
resultant dwindling of available loan funds, works on two sections of the North-South corridor
(interchange on route Z4 at the Palais des Congres, southern inter-communal link) that were to
have been financed under the project had to be postponed to some future project. Even though
Bank loan funds were reallocated to civil works from other categories, the loan fell short of
financing the corresponding 55% of the total cost of the overpass for the southern freeway.
Consequently, the Tunisian government provided an unanticipated US$3.3 million equivalent,
consisting of US$1 million equivalent for the interchange and US$2.3 equivalent for the
overpass.



- 9 -
Public Expenditure Review. After this successful period, CTTU disappeared within months that
followed a succession of director-level and minister-level changes in MOT. After trying to save the
unit for some months, the Bank's project team moved the focus of institution building away from
MOT to DRT, District of Tunis, and Municipality of Tunis.
7.4          At the local level, the District of Tunis and the Municipality of Sfax made much more
use of the project than originally planned and improved their transport planning, policy making, and
traffic management capabilities considerably. The District, using a joint staff/consultants team,
successfully completed a major transport planning study for Greater Tunis (PDRT), which provided
project ideas and a data base for the relevant part of the Eighth Transport Plan. The Tunis PDRT
proposed a primary highway program for the region under the Eighth Plan and provided projections
for the demand of various modes of transport by 1996 and beyond (2001). These were adopted as
a basis for further plans by the transport operators cooperative and DGPC. The District also
managed the PDRT study for Sfax, which developed short-, medium-, and long-term (1993, 1996,
2001) proposals for the highways, traffic, and public transport. These were in the ready-to-appraise
form, but the expected Third Urban Transport Project never materialized.
7.5          Environmental Impact. Through the improvement of the road links which constitute
the eastern bypass of the city center, the project improved the condition of regional and inter-regional
routes for all types of road transport. The project transformed the patterns of accessibility, leading
to planned urbanization on the outskirts of central Tunis. These roadway transformations, above all,
benefitted the local population by connecting suburban neighborhoods with another. In future similar
projects, measures anticipated in response to the need for improved environmental management and
regulation would normally include equipment to measure vehicle noise and pollution, as well as the
development of an updated system for registering vehicles.
7.6          Economic Reevaluation. With Bank financing under the Fourth Urban Development
Project (Loan 2736-TUN), the District of Tunis engaged a local consulting firm to prepare Part II
of the PCR and confirm the economic rate of return (ERR) on the infrastructure investments
supported by the project, i.e., improvements to the primary road network in greater Tunis and to
streets and traffic in the municipality of Tunis, the latter having replaced public transport
improvements in Sfax. Economic benefits were based on savings in vehicle operating costs and
passenger travel time due to vehicle-owners' average household incomes. The economic analysis of
the primary road improvements undertaken at the time of appraisal showed an ERR of 36% with
various sensitivity tests confirming the attractiveness of the investment under all likely scenarios. The
analysis was built around a computer-based road network configuration and origin-destination travel
pattern, which produced estimates of peak hour vehicle kilometers and vehicle hours over the whole
network. The software used to the reevaluate the ERR, the EMME/2 transport model, provided a
more sophisticated tool for travel demand analysis. It showed an ERR of 45%. The higher ERR
is mainly due to greater time savings due to both higher productivity and wages than originally
forecast. A more detailed discussion of the project's economic benefits and methodology used in
evaluating the ERR is provided in Part II.
& Sustainability
8.1          The principal risk identified during project preparation was that the implementation
of a sector-based policy dependent upon cooperation between MOT and MEQH might not work as
hoped for in the project design. In effect, there was an intrinsic dichotomy in terms of incentive
structure: the MEQH controlled the major portion of investment funds under the loan, whereas



- 10 -
MOT had little money and numerous policy changes to make. The only leverage the Bank had over
MOT was persuasion. Nonetheless, following an interim period when MOT's policies were at cross-
purposes with those espoused under the project, MOT became an interested partner. After 1987,
MOT took the lead in reforming the public-owned transport sector and took measures to introduce
private participation therein. Therefore, though CTTU did not survive, the underlying project
objectives were achieved in a way that suited local ideas in these matters. The capacity of MOT in
transport policy and planning in the 1990s is immeasurably higher than it was in the early 1980s, at
least in part due to project activities.
8.2          The training component essentially consisted of management participation in various
colloquia and seminars; not until the end of the implementation period did the sectoral institutions
have in mind a clear training agenda for urban transport. The benefits from ad-hoc, demand-driven
training during most of the implementation period are difficult to pin down. There are many
indications, however, that benefits are considerable, including a visibly strong Tunisian presence at
a series of professional seminars and conferences, some of which were organized in Tunisia with
partial financing by the project. Progress is also evident in an increased number of highly trained
specialists and technicians in the various fields associated with urban transport (e.g., planning,
engineering, transport economics, traffic and parking management).
8.3          Notwithstanding significant institutional gains, the recent redefinition of the role of
the District of Tunis as an internal technical service within MEQH may eventually have a negative
impact on the sustainability of objectives of the Second Urban Transport Project, notably insofar as
the development of stronger urban transport policy and project analysis at the urban area level are
concerned. Initially, there was an attempt to build this capacity in MOT. When that effort did not
give the desired results, emphasis was given to building this capacity in the District and have it re-
exported to other institutions. As a semi-autonomous regional planning agency, the District evolved
into a highly competent and comparatively independent voice in policy and investment decisions for
the national capital area. Because of the District's new organizational locus within a technical
ministry, this role may not continue. Fortunately, what will survive are the trained individuals. There
is a pattern of these people moving from one institution to another, as conditions and leadership
change, looking for the best opportunities to apply their skills and ideas. In this sense, sector
institution building can be said to endure, even if individual institutions rise and fall.
8.4          The sustainability of benefits derived from improvements to the regional and municipal
transport network will largely depend on the timely upgrading of roadway infrastructure (e.g.,
additional interchanges and expressways) and the enforcement of traffic regulations (e.g., restricted
lanes, parking fines).



- 11 -
9. Bank's Performance
9.1          During the planning stage, project design was allowed to become too complex, given
the absence of a strong in-country coordinator. Also, financial arrangements for the training
component relied too heavily on counterpart and bilateral funds. The need for project restructuring,
though principally based on the Government's request to eliminate the participation of SORETRAS,
was successfully used to streamline, simplify, and otherwise improve project design. Project
coordination turned out to be the most difficult aspect of project design. The District of Tunis,
agency chosen to play this role after the demise of CTTU, performed well in monitoring project
activities, but did not have (nor could have) sufficient administrative power to coordinate such diverse
institutions as the DGPC, DRT, MOT, and the Municipalities of Tunis and Sfax.  During the
remaining implementation period, the Bank contributed to institutional and human resources
development in the area of urban transport planning in the District of Tunis, while essentially
continuing to manage the project from Washington.
10. Borrower's Performance
10.1         DRT competently undertook its tasks in the execution of the primary roads
improvement component. The Department of Streets and Roads of the Municipality of Tunis was
quite effective as concerns the city's road and traffic and introduced a new traffic management plan
following the start of the operation of the MLT. The District of Tunis and the Municipality of Sfax,
with consultant assistance, developed their respective PDRTs. Despite these considerable successes,
some key institutional issues and constraints to further subsector development have yet to be
resolved. In Tunisia, responsibility for urban transport is dispersed among the ministerial, regional,
and municipal levels. Relationships involving the different consumers of transport services (e.g.,
drivers, pedestrians, travelers), the agencies providing those services, and financing schemes are
diffuse and undefined. The problems faced, during project implementation, in drawing up and
agreeing on performance contracts with public enterprises, the introduction of private transport
companies, agreement on a comprehensive training plan, and the selection of future transport
investments indicate that none of the sector institutions is in a position adequately to represent the
interests of the country's major urban agglomeration, i.e, Greater Tunis, or its secondary cities.
10.2         The functional range of MOT has proved to be too narrow, while the jurisdiction of
the Municipality of Tunis restricted geographically. In fact, the administrative system seems to lack
a homogenous structure. It is therefore essential to set up a governmental authority with the capacity
to plan and manage urban transport infrastructure and services, as well as the power to mobilize
resources, sign contracts, and recruit qualified personnel. The District of Tunis, in its role as
coordinating agency, had neither sufficient authority nor human resources to affect the progress in
overall project implementation by the other agencies. As a result, annual audits of project accounts
found variations in administrative and other project-related performance from one agency to another.
The coordination of future urban transport projects among implementing agencies, including the
means to enforce project guidelines, may be impractical; clearly needed, however, are (a) a planning
committee with representatives from the ministerial and other public agencies and the private sector,
(b) the capacity to carry out civil works, which DRT can do independently with some training, and
(c) one or more local consulting firms capable of carrying out studies, which now exists in Tunisia.



- 12 -
11. Project Relationship
11.1         Since the early 1970s, when the First Urban Transport Project was conceived, the
Bank and our Tunisian counterparts have continued to forge and solidify close working relationships
across the transportation and urban development sectors. Through the course of our ongoing
dialogue, the possibility of an eventual Third Urban Transport Project has often been entertained and
discussed. The various agencies concerned have expressed their preference for direct support for city-
based, specific urban transport projects rather than through a countrywide, multi-mode transport
sector operation. Whether or not the Bank is involved, a future project could have as its primary
targets the road network for secondary cities and continued upgrading of roads on the periphery of
the capital to expressway standards. Such a project would serve as a vehicle for the improvement of
the decision-making bases and investment policies in secondary cities. The Sfax PDRT, developed
under the Second Urban Transport Project, could be used as a model for the other cities since it
covers all aspects of urban transport and includes long- and short-term recommendations and provides
a techno-economic evaluation of selected investments. A future project would necessarily need to
aim at building a viable institutional framework and invest more wisely in developing human capital
by supporting such providers of training as the SNT Training Center, which specializes in vocational
training, and especially the National Engineering School at Tunis (ENIT). The latter has recently
introduced transport planning into its in-service training curriculum, which is a focal point of the
current training plan being implemented by the District of Tunis. Moreover, the future urban
transport subsector dialogue, whether entirely internal or involving the Bank or other international
agencies, must urgently consider fare-subsidy relationships in the sector, which have not been fully
resolved.
12. Consultants' Services
12.1         Consultants employed to carry out the various studies under the institution building
component, as well as those who provided technical assistance for the other components, completed
their tasks satisfactorily. The local consulting firm, a project beneficiary, helped develop the PDRTs
for the Tunis and Sfax regions, as well as prepared Part II of this report and the project economic
reevaluation. It performed exceptionally well, its work reflecting the highest professional standards,
as evidenced by its success in winning competitively bids for work outside Tunisia.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1         The staff appraisal report and the legal documents provided a useful framework and
other documentation available posed no particular problems for the compiling of information needed
to prepare this project completion report.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2429-TUN)
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PREFACE
1.1  The objective of the Second Urban Transport Project, financed under Loan 2429-TUN granted
on August 28, 1984, was to improve urban transport services in Tunis and Sfax, strengthen the
institutional capacity for the management and planning of urban transport systems, and formulate and
implement a comprehensive transport policy.
1.2  This project was composed of:
- primary roads improvements in Greater Tunis;
- street and road traffic improvements in the city of Tunis; and
- studies, training, and institution building.
1.3  The first component, representing nearly 85% of the total cost, had a considerable impact on
traffic conditions in Tunis. The second component, which dealt with the municipal road system, albeit
less costly, had a favorable impact on the traffic conditions in the city of Tunis. The third component,
which comprised training, technical assistance, and studies had a decisive impact on institutional
development.
1.4  This Completion Report on the Second Urban Transport Project contains two chapters: one
on the restructuring and municipal road system; the other on the institutional component.
2. ROAD NETWORK IN GREATER TUNIS AND MUNICIPAL STREETS
Road network improvements
A.      Actions taken to improve the road network:
2.1  This project component includes the development of primary roads and interchanges along the
North-South corridor of Greater Tunis. The following table retraces the programmed actions as well
as cost overruns and delays, which occurred during implementation.



- 14 -
Implanetatio  Sdiule for the Primary Roaad ImprovemcntsaCmpont
SuboampoDant                 Beginning    End Date      Delays      Initial cot    FIual ot      Dea         Obstiaiu
CM 000)      ('  000)       (Out
____              ____   ~~~~~TD) 000) _          _     _
1. GP8/GP9 Interchange      Feb. 1987    Aug. 1990    23 months           5900           9620       3720
2. X2 Recalibration         June 1987      March                           970           1200        230
1989
3. Cyprus-le-Grand Viaduct                                                                                 Not executed
4. Republique Viaduct       Nov. 1986    Nov. 1989    12 months           9536          15311       5775
5. Z4 Recalibration between    April 1986    Feb. 1988                     1620          1950        330
Republique and GP
6. Z4 Recalibration between    March 1986   Apill 1988                     3047
GP1 and Megrine
7. Southern Intercommunal                                                                                  Not executed
8. Southern Expressway      April 1989    June 1993                       11170         13850       2680
B. Development impact on improvements to the streets in Tunis
2.2   The objectives of the primary road improvements in Greater Tunis were to:
- ease traffic congestion in the southern part of the city of Tunis through the main southern
thoroughfare connecting to Road Z4;
- ensure the North-South traffic interchange through the Avenue de la REpublique viaduct;
- redistribute northbound motorized traffic by improving the interchange GP8/GP9 and
recalibrating route X20 with 2x2 lanes;
- ease congestion at heavily trafficked exits and crossroads (e.g., Avenue de la REpublique,
Boulevard Mohammed V, crossroads GP8/GP9).
2.3   The execution of these actions resulted in a number of benefits, such as:
- easing traffic congestion on main arteries and crossroads;
- reducing commuters' travel time; and
- enhancing overall ecoriomic performance, which is the main focus of this ex-post evaluation
report.



(it



- 16 -
Municipal street project
2.4  The Municipality of Tunis carried out several actions within the framework of the Second
Urban Transport Project. These actions dealt mainly with primary road improvements and street light
installation. The total amount allocated to these subcomponents was about TD 6,310,000, of which
TD 4,340,000 were for primary road projects and TD 1,970,000 for equipment. The World Bank's
share in financing them was US$4,902,000 (TD 4,411,800 equivalent), representing about 70% of the
total component cost. The component's description, its costs, and its qualitative impact on urban
transport and traffic within the city of Tunis are given in the following tables.



- 17 -
MUNICIPAL SUBPROJECLS
Investments in Infrastructure
Project    Description                      Cost           Completion                   Project Impact
No.                                   (TD 1,000)           time
1      Municipal road system           559,100             1987          Reduction in downtown traffic congestion
strengthening in the city of                                    - Reduction in vehicle operating costs (less
Tunis                                                              wear and tear caused by poor
pavement         conditions)
2      Rebuilding of sidewalks         163,000           1987-88        - Enhanced urban environment
along some arteries in the                                      - Improved pedestrian safety
city center
3      Municipal road system           323,400             1988          Reduction in traffic congestion within the
strengthening along the                                             city
northern periphery                                              - Reduction in vehicle operating costs (less
(El Menzah)                                                        wear and tear caused by poor
pavement      conditions)
4      Municipal road system           291,000             1988         - Traffic improvements in the city center
strengthening in the city                                       due  to better traffic distribution at entry
center, in particular                                           and      exit points
- Ave. Libert1                                                  - Reduction in vehicle operating costs (less
- Ave. Cyrus Le Grand                                              wear and tear caused by poor
- Ave. Carthage                                                 pavement       conditions) and some time
saving
5      Sidewalk strengthening in       181,000           1989-90        - Improved environment
the city of Tunis                                               - Improved pedestrian safety
6      Secondary and tertiary road     891,000           1989-91        - Better flow of city traffic
system rehabilitation in the                                    - Better connection with the primary road
city of Ibn Khaldoun                                               network
- Reduction in vehicle operating costs (less
wear and tear due to poor pavement
conditions
7      Drainage works in the city      230,000           1989-90        - Enhanced urban environment
of Ibn Khaldoun
8      Rehabilitation of the            778,000          1991-92        - Better flow of city traffic
secondary and tertiary road                                     - Better connection with the primary road
systems in the cities of                                           network
Kabaria and Djebel Djeloud                                      - Reduction in vehicle operating costs (less
wear and tear due to poor pavement
conditions)
- Improved safety
9      Rehabilitation of the           662,100           1990-92        - Improved flow of city traffic
secondary and tertiary road                                     - Better connection with the primary road
system in the city of                                              network
Ouardia                                                           Reduction in vehicle operating costs
(less wear and tear due to poor pavement
conditions)
- Improved safety
10      Drainage works in the city     260,400            1989-91       - Improved urban environment
of Ouardia



- 18 -
MUNICIPAL SUBPROJECIS
Investments in Equipment
Project   Description                         Cost      Implementation                    Project Impact
No.                                        (1000          period
TD)
I      Extension of the traffic control  1,210,000        1989         - Traffic improvements at main intersections,
system in the city of Tunis                                         miainly those crossed by the Tunis Light
Rail      System (SMLT)
- Safety improvements at these intersections for
all transport vehicles
- Optimal operation of the SMLT since the
present traffic control system gives it the
l___________________________                          .right-             of-way  over other vehicles
2      Acquisition of spare parts;        319,145         1991         - Optimal operation of traffic light equipment
personnel training actions                                          (e.g., less frequent malfunctioning)
- Improvement in the repair of traffic control
equipment
3      Acquisition of vertical traffic-   277,000         1992         - Improved traffic and road safety
light equipment
- Improved urban enyironment
4      Equipping information centers      163,900         1992         - Better use of computer technology
with microcomputers and
software



- 19 -
Economic rate of return
Introduction
2.5  Of the two components analyzed, primary road network improvements and the subprojects
executed by the Municipality of Tunis (e.g., streets, installation of traffic signals), the former
component had the greatest impact. The cost ratio of the two components was 1:7 and the impact
on the network was mainly due to primary road network improvements. The impact on municipal
streets was more localized (e.g., traffic decongestion at some intersections, right-of-way given to public
transport). However, economic benefits derived from project were shown to be mainly due to actions
taken to improve the primary road network. Thus, in carrying out the economic impact analysis, a
conservative approach was taken to combine the two component costs while only taking into account
the benefits resulting from the primary road network improvements.
Methodolov
2.6  Unlike so-called "commercial projects," for which financial rates of return (profits in relation
to expenses) are the main performance indicators, infrastructure projects are evaluated through the
economic rates of return obtained on a national scale. Two methods are generally used to conduct
such studies; to wit, the reference price, or cost-benefit method, and the so-called "impact method."
(i)     The cost-benefit method is based on the costs and benefits of the project in relation
to a reference situation. In this particular case, the reference situation is the one
where the Tunis primary road network excludes improvements made within the scope
of the Second Urban Transport Project. This reference situation has to be compared
to the one where the network includes the enhancements resulting from the project.
This method entails taking into account a reference price system to correct the
economic distortions and displaying the actual cost and benefits to the population in
the project area. In this case, adjustments must be made so that economic costs and
benefits would be net of taxes.
(ii)    Based on the market price system, the purpose of the impact method is to assess
variations in income of economic units (Treasury, businesses, households) resulting
from the project. These revenue variations at the level of the national economy
represent the algebraic sum of the variations found at the level of each unit. Insofar
as the global variation of income is positive, the project is acceptable.
2.7  In practice, these two methods ought to lead to the same results if the same scenarios are used
in either method. The first method, based on cost-benefit analysis, was used later for the economic
evaluation of the improvements to the regional road network under the Second Urban Transport
Project.
Assumptions
Costs and benefits inventory
2.8  Economic costs comprise investment expenditures and operating costs.



- 20 -
2.9  Investments. The project's investment costs were used as they appeared on the implementation
schedule provided by the Ministry of Equipment and Housing. This schedule showed yearly costs of
each subcomponent completed between 1986 and 1993. These costs did not include direct or
"invisible" taxes.'
2.10 Operating Costs. Since two situations are being compared, operating costs are derived on the
basis of infrastructure developed within the scope of the project. The scenarios retained are:
(i)     maintenance costs for each road section resulting from implementation year n+2 until
year n+6 at the rate of 1% per year of the investment cost; and
(ii)    2% of the investment costs from year n+7.
2.11 Benefits. Two kinds of economic benefits were derived from this project:
(i)     First, those derived from motor vehicle operation. In fact, the opening of new roads
that shorten commutes, reducing traffic congestion, and improving certain road
sections resulted in mileage gains (x km) and in time savings (x hours). These two
assumptions were used in comparing both situations and their difference and then
showing the advantages of one situation over the other. This analysis was carried out
on the basis of vehicle operating costs, according to (a) mileage-based costs, which
include the consumption of fuel and lubricants, wear and tear on tires, and
maintenance and repair costs; and (b) fixed annual costs, which include insurance and
depreciation expenses.
(ii)    Second, those derived from  time saved by the users of the new infrastructure.
Decreasing transport time is the main objective of urban transport infrastructure
development. Quantifying time as an economic value gained by users within the
project situation in comparison with the reference situation permitted an evaluation
the benefits provided by the project. The estimated value of time was calculated on
the basis of the average hourly income per worker, representing the economic cost
of labor in Greater Tunis.
1P    Direct taxes refer to "visible" taxation levied against contracts for civil works and studies
(Value Added Tax or VAT). "Invisible" taxation can be found in the contracts' itemized
price list on such consumer items as gasoline. An estimate of these taxes was expressed as a
percentage of contracts for civil works and studies.



- 21 -
Calculations
2.12 Passazer vehicle operating costs:
-    fuel and lubricants;
-    tires;
-    maintenance and repair;
-    annual depreciation expenses; and
-    other fixed costs (e.g., insurance).
2.13 The assessment of these items followed the common approach for this type of analysis. It was
based on unit costs and the specific consumption of each item and the extent to which passenger
vehicles were used in urban areas.
Items                         Cost in Km
(000)
Fuel                               26.6
Lubricants                           1.0
Tires                               5.8
Maintenance
spare parts                      9.1
labor                            2.0
Annual depreciation expenses       56.1
Insurance                           6.3
TOTAL                              107.0
2.14 Value of Users' Time. As mentioned above, the benefits of an urban transport system are
essentially realized through travel time reduction experienced by the users. The results of recent
household surveys 2 show that families using motor vehicles have, on average, earnings of about TD
610 per month and those using public transport TD 350.
2.15    The average hourly income per worker is calculated as follows:
Monthly income
Hourly income    --------------------------------
No. of workers per household x No. of working hours per month
2.16 The number of working members per household was 1.58 and the number of working hours
was 180 per month. The value of hourly income per worker was set at TD 2.142 per hour for
transportation by private vehicle and TD 0.954 per hour for transportation by mass transit.
Moreover, the time value varied with the users' motive. The following is generally accepted: work-
home motive, 50%; and other motives, 30%.
2/ El Mourouj Feasibility Study



- 22 -
2.17 By using this approach, the 1993 time value was shown at TD 0.518 an hour per passenger
vehicle unit (pvu). Since the base year of the economic evaluation was 1993, it was assumed that the
time value would increase in proportion with income (in real terms), i.e., 3% per year until 1996; and
2% per year beyond 1996.
Network simulation
2.18 It should be noted that the impact from developing new infrastructure, whether the road
network or facilities, is spread throughout the network and not directly to the specific area of
development. To show the impact of the Second Urban Transport Project on the network, we used
the EMME/2 model to conduct a simulation of the efficiency of the Greater Tunis road network in
both the project and reference situations in 1993, 1996, and 2001. To this effect, we used the
following:
- origin/destination matrices in 1993, 1996, and 2001 expressed in passenger vehicle units:
matrices at rush and non-rush hours;
- Greater Tunis primary road network under both situations; and
- traffic taken counts in 1993 of the main entry and exit points and major intersections of the
network to support the matrices.
2.19 We then:
- simulated these various matrices, at different time intervals, on the two above-mentioned
networks;
- calculated the determinants for both project and reference situations: vehicles x km and
vehicles x hours at different time intervals;
- calculated the project's "technical" benefits in vehicles x hours and vehicles x km by
subtracting the two simulations at a specified time; and
- interpolated the benefits between the completion dates of the various works and 1993, and
extrapolated the foreseeable benefits beyond 2001;
2.20 The economic analysis is presented in the following tables.



- 23 -
Economic Rate of Return (TD 000 in 1993 constant prices)
Year            1985   1986    1987   1988   1989  1990  1991   1992  1993
Investment costs           0       1941      10086       8821      5712      1996       3957      7857      2140
Operating and              0           0          0          0        0        37        161       233       233
maintenance costs                                                                                                 l
Annual benefits            0           0          0          0     8327    11598       15529    20240      26363
Net benefits               0       -1941    -10086      -8821      2615      9565      11411    12149    23989
Year            1994  1995   19%    1997   18  1999  2000   2001  2002   2003
Investment costs           0           0         0           0        0         0          0         0          0         0
Operating and            233        375        499        571       571       571        675       675        675       675
maintenance costs
15000
Annual benefits        27432      28190      28613      32102    36368    41315        47055    53723        5372    53723
Net benefits           27199      27816      28115      31531    35797    40744        46381    53049       53049    68049
ERR=  44.7%



- 24 -
3. INSTITUMONAL COMPONENT
3.1  The institutional component carried out under the Second Urban Transport Project covered
three areas:
- training, through seminars and study tours, targeted to staff at agencies located in Tunis and
Sfax which operate in the sector;
- the acquisition of computer hardware and software; and
- technical assistance and studies.
Trainig program
3.2  The training program, which was financed under the Second Urban Transport Project,
benefitted the following institutions:
- District of Tunis;
- Ministry of Planning and Regional Development;
- Highway Department of the Ministry of Equipment and Housing;
- Regional Directorate of Equipment and Housing in Tunis;
- Ministry of Transport (Department of Planning and Studies);
- Municipality of Tunis; and
- Municipality of Sfax.
3.3  The project also benefitted organizations such as the Tunis Light Rail System (MLT), the
National Transport Company (SNT), and regional transport companies. The main programs and their
costs are as follows:
- Fifth Conference on the Development and Upgrading of Urban Transport in Developing
Countries; Sao Paolo, Brazil; September 24-28, 1990: TD 18,077;
- International Seminar on Urban Transport organized at the Center of Studies on Urban
Transport (CETUR), Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Transport; Paris, France; May
25-June 22, 1990: TD 6,047;.
- International Congress on Urban Transport (CITTU) in Arab and African cities; Tunis;
November 28-30, 1990): TD 10,564;
- Urban Transport Policy; training session at ENIT (with ENPC); Tunis; December 10-13,
1990: TD 9,450;
- Training session on "Road planning, design, and implementation" at Amman University;
Amman, Jordan; June 1-12, 1991: TD 4,590;
- Seminar on Road Safety; Tunis; May 28-31, 1991: TD 3,888;
- Nineteenth World Congress on Roads; Marrakech, Morocco; September 22-28, 1991: TD
12,901;



- 25 -
3. INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
3.1 The institutional component carried out under the Second Urban Transport Project covered
three areas:
- training, through seminars and study tours, targeted to staff at agencies located in Tunis
and Sfax which operate in the sector;
- the acquisition of computer hardware and software; and
- technical assistance and studies.
Training program
3.2 The training program, which was financed under the Second Urban Transport Project,
benefitted the following institutions:
- District of Tunis;
- Ministry of Planning and Regional Development;
- Highway Department of the Ministry of Equipment and Housing;
- Regional Directorate of Equipment and Housing in Tunis;
- Ministry of Transport (Department of Planning and Studies);
- Municipality of Tunis; and
- Municipality of Sfax.
3.3 The project also benefitted organizations such as the Tunis Light Rail System (SMLT), the
National Transport Company (SNT), and regional transport companies. The main programs and
their costs are as follows:
- Fifth Conference on the Development and Upgrading of Urban Transport in Developing
Countries; Sao Paolo, Brazil; September 24-28, 1990: TD 18,077;
- International Seminar on Urban Transport organized at the Center of Studies on Urban
Transport (CETUR), Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Transport; Paris, France;
May 25-June 22, 1990: TD 6,047;.
- International Congress on Urban Transport (CITTU) in Arab and African cities; Tunis;
November 28-30, 1990): TD 10,564;
- Urban Transport Policy; training session at ENIT (with ENPC); Tunis; December 10-
13, 1990: TD 9,450;
- Training session on "Road planning, design, and implementation" at Amman
University; Amman, Jordan; June 1-12, 1991: TD 4,590;



- 26 -
- Seminar on Road Safety; Tunis; May 28-31, 1991: TD 3,888;
- Nineteenth World Congress on Roads; Marrakech, Morocco; September 22-28, 1991:
TD 12,901;
- Traffic and Road System Management; Tunis; October 14-18, 1991: TD 10,979;
- Cost Accounting Training in Transport Companies; November 11-14, 1991: TD 3,959;
- Conference on "Cities, Transport, and Traffic in the Maghreb": TD 2,87;
- Acquisition of, and training in, transport planning software (EMME/2): TD 18,900;
- Technical assistance related to traffic at major intersections in Tunis: TD 12,594;
- Conference on the Development and Upgrading of Urban Transport in Developing
Countries; Tunis; February 15-19, 1993: TD 24,000;
- Training session on "Road system management through geographical information
system," organized by ENIT, April 26-30, 1993: TD 10,205;
- Continuous six-month training on "Traffic lights and control equipment maintenance,"
organized by ENIT, for high-level technicians employed at the Municipality of Tunis
and the Regional Department of Equipment and Housing of Tunis (Ministry of
Equipment and Housing): TD 12,000;
- Twelfth World Congress on Roads; Madrid, Spain; May 16-21, 1993: TD 12,322; and
- Urban Transport International Conference, organized by the Center of Studies on Urban
Transport (CETUR), Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Transport; Paris, France;
June 7-July 2, 1993: TD 43,710.
3.4 The above training program only included the main actions carried out within the scope
of the Second Urban Transport Project. It is, therefore, difficult to provide the total cost of
project-supported training program and to assess the trainees' acquired knowledge.
Nevertheless, judgment expressed as to the effectiveness of these training actions has been
generally positive in light of the subject matter dealt with and the reputation of the institutions
involved.
Acquisition of computer software and hardware
3.5 All agencies participating in the project except for the Municipality of Sfax, acquired
computer hardware and software, consisting mainly of microcomputers. The total cost was TD
261,400, with the World Bank's share equal to 75%; i.e., US$219,900 (equivalent to TD
197,910).



- 27 -
Studies and technical assistance
3.6 The following studies and technical assistance were carried out with World Bank financing
under the Second Urban Transport Project were:
- Regional Transport Master Plan for Greater Tunis (PDRT). This study was
implemented by the District of Tunis with assistance from a local consulting firm in
joint venture with a foreign one succeeded in: producing an in-depth analysis of the
transport situation in Greater Tunis based on the results of a 1985 household survey and
other traffic surveys (e.g., origin/destination survey); defining short-, medium-, and
long-term economically feasible transport strategies followed by an investment plan for
1991, 1996, and 2001; and devising a transport planning matrix to assess various
projections of transport demand, test projects designed to expand or improve the
transport network, and measure their impact. The study, which cost TD 156,800,
helped establish a unit in the District of Tunis to ensure the followup of the Regional
Transport Master Plan. However, the turnover of staff assigned to this unit might have
been too high to ensure the necessary intervention and followup of the PDRT.
- Regional Transport Master Plan for Greater Sfax (PDRTGS). This study was
implemented by the same consulting firm on behalf of the Municipality of Sfax in an
effort to harmonize urban development and transport system improvement in Greater
Sfax. It envisaged: defining the short-, medium-, and long-term composition of the
road network as well as the public transport system most suitable for the region;
carrying out an assessment of future investments for which resource mobilization would
be likely; and setting up, as in Greater Tunis, a transport planning matrix, which would
be the unit's main tool for the followup of the PDRTGS. This study, which cost TD
204,800, started in 1990 and was completed in 1992, whereas the implementation of the
study's recommendations has not yet started.
- Technical assistance to improve traffic on the main Tunis interchanges. The
objective of this assistance was to help set up a traffic office within the Regional
Directorate of the Ministry of Equipment and Housing in Tunis (DRT), whose main
functions were to: carry out traffic surveys on a regular basis at road entry and exit
points and crossroads under DRT supervision; update statistics through surveys and
traffic counts of Tunis road network; and participate in technical studies on roads with
responsibility for traffic components. This assistance took place over two and one-half
years (1988-1990) and cost TD 507,100. The traffic office set up with this assistance
is still in operation and performs its defined tasks.
- Feasibility study for the Municipal Sector Investment Program. Financed under the
Second Urban Transport Project, this study was not aimed at transportation but at
municipal development with a indirect and partial upgrading of urban transport
infrastructure. This study, which cost TD 350,000, focussed on: institution building
with emphasis on decentralization; mobilization of municipal resources together with
a better policy for cost recovery and local taxation; improved municipal management



- 28 -
and management tools development (e.g., computerization); the restructuring of the
municipal finance agency into an autonomous entity with a transparent financing policy
and greater authority over the selection and the size of projects; and training needed to
enhance the quality of local government employees. The Municipal Sector Investment
Project is being financed under World Bank Loan 3507-TUN in the amount of US$75
million and other loans and grants from bilateral donors (e.g., USAID). It became
effective in 1992. During the first two years, implementation of the World Bank-
financed project showed an impressive quantitative advancement (i.e., disbursements)
as well as qualitative (i.e., better selection of priority investments and subproject
preparation). Moreover, the impact on road infrastructure is discernible. The feasibility
study also laid the groundwork for the financing of the Government's Municipal
Development Program under the Eighth Plan (TD 425 million which in current terms
is 80% higher than investments financed under the Seventh Plan).
Overall assessment of the impact of the institutional component
3.7 The institutional component improved the institutional framework in urban transport to wit:
- projects identified by the PDRT and PDRTGS have been at least partially taken into
account in the Eighth Plan;
- trainees from local organizations (e.g., District of Tunis, consulting firms) have
acquired knowledge in planning tools; and
- the establishment of new operational units within some institutions such as DRT has led
to a better understanding of traffic and road management.
3.8 Some shortfalls still exist, such as respect of the need to follow up on studies from the time
they are programmed until they have been carried out and in this context, to maintain continuity.



- 29 -
TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2429-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Nunber and Title                  Purpose                               FY | Status        -
Loan 937/Credit 432-    Financing of a major upgrading program  for the      73    Completed;
TUN                     National Transport Company (SNT) serving the               PPAR #5013
Tunis District Urban    national capital region and a substantial traffic          3/27/84
Planning and Public     management program  in downtown Tunis, as well as
Transport Project       contributing to the establishment of the Tunis District
as a planning authority for the capital region.
Loan 1705-Tun           Financing of upgrading and sites-and-services  for   77    Completed;
Second Urban           low-income families in Tunis and Sfax; small traffic        PCR #5131
Development Project    management component in Sfax.                               6/14/84
Loan 1841-TUN           Financing of: (i) equipment for vehicle inspection,  80    Completed;
Fourth Highway Project  traffic control, and enforcement of traffic regulations;   PCR #8648
(ii) technical assistance  for inter-modal transport       5/18/90
planning; (iii)study on transport sector liberalization
and; and (iv) training and organizational needs
assessment  for the Highway Department (DGPC).
Loan 2223-TUN           Financing of: (i) comprehensive  upgrading in four   83    Completed;
Third Urban             selected settlements; (ii) a sites and services and        PCR in
Development Project    housing credit scheme in three settlements; (iii)a          progress
pilot revitalization program of the Hafsia
neighborhood in the Medina of Tunis; (iv) technical
assistance for project implementation, institution
building, and pre-investment studies; (v) design and
feasibility studies for the main arteries in Greater
Tunis; and (vi) a parking management study in
downtown Tunis.



- 30 -
Table 2: Prolect Timetable
-_____________-_-.___f f  X      Planned     Revised        Actual
Identification                  04/82            -           04/82
Preparation Beginning           07/82            -           07/82
Preparation End                 09/83            -           09/83
Pre-appraisal Mission           10/83            -            10/83
Appraisal Mission               10/83          10/83          12/83
Loan Negotiations               04/84            -           04184
Board Approval                05/29/84           -          05/29/84
Loan Signature                08/28/84           -          08/28/84
Loan Effectiveness            06/28/85           -          06128/85
Loan Closing                  06/30/92           -          06/30/93
Project Completion             12/30/90      12/31/92       12/01/93



- 31 -
Table 3: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(USD millions)
Original Estimates     Revised             Actual
Actual vs  Actual vs
FY        Annual Cumulative Annual  Cumulative  Annual  umulative   Original   Revised
1985     0.99       0.99    0.08        0.08  0.08        0.08       8.1%    100.0%
1986     4.30       5.29    0.00        0.08  0.00        0.08       1.5%    100.0%
1987     5.94      11.23    1.49        1.57  2.77        2.85      25.4%    181.5%
1988     7.44      18.67    5.34        6.91  5.15        8.00      42.8%    115.8%
1989     6.26      24.93    6.75       13.66  5.75       13.75      55.2%    100.7%
1990     4.12      29.05    4.68       18.34  6.09       19.84      68.3 %    108.2%
1991     2.80      31.85    5.99       24.33  4.49       24.33      76.4%    100.0%
1992     1.15      33.00    2.27       26.60  3.39       27.72      84.0%    104.2%
1993                        6.40       33.00  3.71       31.43      95.2%     95.2%
1994                                          1.57       33.00     100.0%    100.0%



Table 4: Project Costs
(USS million)
A000-000  ft:titppraisal Estimates  Revised Estimates  Final Costs         Vao
-                       -         -               -               -      wth Revised
Local' Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Ttl     LclFein         Total  Estimtates
Primary Roads - Tunis
Civil works                     30.17   22.95   53.12     21.18  26.31   47.49      28.34   26.20   54.54    7.05   15%
Land                             9.01       -    9.01      5.80           5.80      5.80       -    5.80       _     _
Engineering Servlces             0.69    1.61    2.30      0.43   1.01    1.44       1.51    1.15    2.66    1.22   85%
Subtotal                       39.87   24.56   64.43     27.41  27.32   54.73      35.65   27.35   63.00    8.27   15%
Public Transport Improvements
in Greater Sfax
Bus Depot, Stops & Terminals
CMI Works                       3.79    3.10    6.89
Equipment                       0.37    1.66    2.03                                                                              w
Management Information System    0.08    0.30    0.38
Professional Services            0.37    0.85    1.22
Subtotal                        4.61    5.91   10.52
Streets and Traffic - Tunis
Civil Works                                                3.92   4.24    8.16       2.16    2.34    4.50   -3.66  -45%
Equipment                                                  0.10   0.31    0.41       0.09    2.21    2.30    1.89  461%
Engineering Services                                       0.06   0.27    0.33       0.01    0.03    0.04   -0.29  -88%
Subtotal                                                  4.08   4.82    8.90       2.26    4.58    6.84   -2.06  -23%
Institution Building
Training                         0.97    3.88    4.85      0.13   0.50    0.63       0.19    0.28    0.47   -0.16  -25%
Studies/Technical Assistance     0.52    2.06    2.58      0.39   1.56    1.95       0.70    0.73    1.43   -0.52  -27%
Equipment                        -       -                 0.12   0.37    0.49       0.03    0.25    0.28   -0.21  -43%
Subtotal                        1.49    5.94    7.43      0.64   2.43    3.07       0.92    1.26    2.18   -0.89  -29%
Front-End Fee                             0.08    0.08             0.08    0.08               0.08    0.08      -     -
TOTAL                           45.97   36.49   82.46      32.13  34.65  06.78      38.83 033.27   72.10    5.32    8%



Table 5: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates             Revised Estimates              Actual
Bilat-           Munici-                    Munici-
SORE-            oral              pallty                      pality
MEOH  TRAS   Bank   Aid          MEGH  of Tunis  Bank        MEQH  of Tunis  Bank
Primary Roads - Tunis
Civil works                         29.72      -  23.40       -       23.31       -  24.18       29.01       -  25.53
Land                                 9.01      -      -       -       5.80        -      -       5.80        -      -
Engineering Services                 0.69      -   1.61       -       0.43        -    1.01       1.51       -    1.15
Public Transport Improvements
in Greater Sfax
Bus Depot, Stops & Terminals
Civl Works                            -   3.79   3.10        -          -        -      -          -        -       -
Equipment                             -   0.37    1.66       -          -        -      -          -        -       -
Management Information System          -   0.08   0.30        -          -        -      -          -        -       -
Professional Services                  -   0.37   0.85        -          -        -      -          -        -       -
Streets and Traffic - Tunis
CMI Works                              -       -       -      -          -    3.92    4.24          -    2.16    2.34
Equipment                              -       -      -       -          -    0.10    0.31          -    0.58    1.72
Engineering Services                   -       -       -      -          -    0.10    0.23          -     0.01    0.03
Institution Building
Training                             0.78      -       -   4.07          -        -   0.63          -        -   0.47
Studies/Technical Assistance         0.58      -   2.00       -          -        -    1.95         -        -    1.43
Equipment                              -       -      -       -       0.12        -   0.37       0.03        -   0.25
Front-End Fee                           -       -   0.08       -          -        -   0.08          -        -   0.08
T}OTAL   -.:.-0 78   4.61   33.00    4.:07                            29.6     4.12  33.00       36:78  2:7:333.00



Table 6: Status of Compliance with Covenants
Amended
Loan
Agreement
Reference                        ~~~~~~~Description                                         Status of Compliance
3.01 (a)        Borrower to provide the funds, facilities, staff, services, and other   Complied with.
resources required by agencies and institutions responsible for carrying
out the project.
3.02 (a)        Borrower and the Municipality of Tunis to enter into a subsidiary loan  Complied with.
agreement.
3.03 (a)        Ministry of Transport to maintain the Coordination and Study            Not complied with. The Committee has been inactive
Commnittee for Urban Transport for the duration of project              since 1986. Repeated discussions with DGTT and
implementation.                                                        the District of Tunis were unsuccessful.
3.03 (b)        Ministry of Transport to maintain the Urban Transport Unit (CTTU),      The Technical Unit, set up in 1984, was functioning
with the General Directorate of Land Transport (DGTT) to support the    well but was disbanded in 1986 due to policy
Coordination and Study Committee.                                       reorientation.
3.03 (c)        District of Tunis to collect or prepare the records, reports, accounts, and   Complied with.
other information referred to below in Sections 3.06 and 4.02.
3.04 (a)        (i) Municipality of Tunis to employ traffic management and engineering    Complied with.
consultants to assist in carrying out its activities under Parts B and C of
the project; (ii) DRT to employ engineering and construction supervision
consultants to assist in carrying out Part A of the project; (iii) DGTT to
employ transport consultants to assist in carrying out its activities under
Part C of the project; (iv) Municipality of Sfax to employ transport
planning consultants to assist in carrying out its respective activities
under Part C of the project; and (v) District of Tunis to employ
transport consultants to assist in carrying its activities under Part C of
the project.



Table 6: Status of Compliance with Covenants
"'   '    ''''-:''''''''''  '  ''."'""  '''"""''':''.:'''   '"'''''''''''''''"'"'"'''''''"'"'-:"::'"' ~ ~ ~ ~ F:''   . .......   .'.1 ... ....
___________                     Ji)esCn~:Ok ption                                      St    0fso Compliance:~
3.06 (a)       Borrower to furnish the Bank the plans, specifications, progress reports,   Complied with.
contract documents and work and procurement schedules of the project
promptly upon their preparation.
3.08           Municipality of Tunis to prepare and present to the Borrower and the  Contract signed in August 1987; initial report issued
Bank for approval a draft of the parking management plan, by June 30,   in March 1988 and final report in July 1989 and
1988; and implement the agreed plan.                               received by the Bank on April 30, 1990.
3.09           DGTT to: (i) prepare and present for Bank review a study identifying  Complied with.
actions necessary to stimulate the involvement of private companies in
the transport sector by December 31, 1987; and (ii) formulate and
implement an action plan for private sector investments in transport.
4.02           DRT, DGTT, District of Tunis, Municipality of Tunis, and Municipality  Complied with, but reports were generally two-three
of Sfax to establish and maintain separate records and accounts adequate   months late each year.
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources, and expenditures in
respect of the project, and submit to the Bank project account audit
reports by September 30 of each year.



- 36 -
Table 7: Misslons
S(age of                    No. of No. of Days Specialiion              NatuDae -  a
Projec: t Cdcl   Month/Year  Stf      iield    Representad  Aiating    Poln
Identification    5182        1          5        TS
CE
6-7/82      2          15       TS
10-11/82     2          10       CE
Preparation       11/82       1         10        CE
1-3/83      6                   TS
10/83       5         25        VP
TS
ECON
TRG
FA
Appraisal         12/83       3         10        CE
HE
TS
Supervision       7/84        1         10        ENG
TS
9/84        1         5        TS
12/84       1          5        TS
5/85       2          10       TS
11-12/85     4         10        TS
ME
12/86       2          5        TS              2          Financial
ME                          Political
UP
9/87       2          10       TS              2           Financial
3188       1          5        TS              2           Financial
ME
11/88       1          5        TS              2          Financial
Managerial
2/89        1         10       TS              2           Financial
Managerial
6/89        1         10       TS              2           Financial
10/89       1         10        TS              2          Financial
2/90        1         10       TS              2           Financial
6/90       1          10       TS              2           Financial
12/90       1          5        TS              2          Financial
6/91       1          10       TS              2           Financial
2/92       1          10       TS              2           Financial
6/92       1          2        TS              2           Financial
4/93        1         2        ME              2           Financial
Completion        2/94        1          9        OA              2
Total days in field      219
1/ CE - Civil Engineer             2/ 1 - Problem free or minor problems
ECON - Economist                    2 - Moderate Problems
HE - Highway Engineer               3 - Major problems; which are being addressed
ME - Municipal Engineer             4 - Major problems; which are not being
OA - Operations Analyst                addressed
TS - Transport Specialist
UP - Urban Planner



- 37 -
Table 8: Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Ppreparation  Appraisal Negotiations  Supervision    PCR  Total
To FY 83        26.2                                                  26.2
FY 84         13.4      61.6         11.9         3.1               90.0
FY 85                                            22.4               22.4
FY 86                                            22.0               22.0
FY 87                                            13.7               13.7
FY 88                                            13.0               13.0
FY 89                                           112.2              112.2
FY 90                                            17.6               17.6
FY 91                                            10.8               10.8
FY 92                                             6.2                6.2
FY93                                              8.1                8.1
FY 94                                                      8.9       8.9
Total          39.6      61.6         11.9       229.1       8.9    351.1






MAP SECTION






-v                           x2                                                                                                           0                 2        3       4  ARIAN  TUNIA
F U  F..    ,                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERSAlrpo   \   /GRFATERTUNIS
,/'\ 9t . L~~~~~~~OCATION OF PRIMARY ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
. ,\ '\ \ /1 I I D = - - ' \ ~~~~~SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
_-  \t -- -)                                                                
-    a, >-/V// ->                                       >  /                                                                                                         5ur -Components
\   \ /  |   /\j  A1                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al    Interchange GP8/GP9/X2
\ Jx // / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A2                                                                               Voie X2, between GP 9and GP10O
< J 1 >/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A3                                                                              Interchange on Voie Z4 :j Palais des
o<t,!?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L A r- /i- -LA E T T E                                                                               v csduct on Avenue de ra Republique
c>  S   _I~BARDO                                     A                                                                                                             B      cslnngvo e74)over 'venue Bourguibci nd
-;-c-------9>,       _   (\1 ^    ~~TUNISe5~~~                                                                                                      Metri Leger de Tun s
5 \4, \ \ \ Ls / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                       Vo e Z4,from Rur d'ltalhe to `Penetrsnte
1 7 t< . / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dl    Vo e Z4,from Ponetrante Sud to Megrine
4.                                        ) t  W   _  /   - jL   D2    Gpntrcommunale Sud between Z4 'nd
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                                            P66rat Su,btenZ4n
>    <    E \ss    D    ME~~GRINE\                    
\\ \ < \\4D2 \ \ e>/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Metro Le'ger de Tunts (PHase I)
3c\ R 7 \ > \< ~~~~~~~~~~~~RADES                                           -Plcinned Rocids TURCPwCLI
<   >zS   \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \  / ~~~~~~~Salt Lake                                                         _W L                          361
__       I            \         : H )                   \                                     ---  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International BoLundaries  ALG ERIA/
oA   >._     t            /   \   1 | 1       \*,>                    \                      o         1       2        3        4       343                           3e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3434
F  awFf_.w X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                                             \C(D
_t A t , _ \ / X N \ > \ I O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(D    ^  ......                                                     @           (>                 CLs                                               /\(  Y 



