Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     °
Report No. P-3809-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$33.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 7, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate
which is used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the rate as of
December 1983. It is:
1 TD  =  US$1.45
1 US$ = TDO.69
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF' ACRONYMS
CTTU       =  Urban Transport Unit (Cellule Technique de Transport Urbain)
DGPC       =  Highway Department (Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees)
MEQ           Ministry of Public Works (Ministere de l'Equipement)
MLT           Light-Rail System (Metro Leger de Tunis)
MOTC          Ministry of Transport and. Communications (Ministere des
Transports et Communications)
SNT           National Transport Company (Societe Nationale de Transports)
SORETRAS   =  Regional Transport Company of Sfax (Soci4t&  Rtgionale de
Transports de Sfax)
SRT        =  Regional Transport Company (Soci6te Regionale de Transports)
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary;                   Socigt4 R4gionale de Transports de Sfax
(SORETRAS)
Amount:                        US$33.0 million equivalent, including a
capitalized front-end fee
t        Terms:                         17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Onlending:                     The Government would onlend US$6.1 million of
the Bank loan to SORETRAS on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project                       The proposed project would improve the level of
Description:                urban transport services in Greater Tunis and
Greater Sfax and increase efficiency in
supplying these services; strengthen the
capacity of sector institutions to manage and
plan urban transport systems effectively; and
support the development and implementation of a
comprehensive urban transport policy. It
consists of: primary road improvements in
Greater Tunis; provision of improved bus
maintenance facilities, bus stops and terminals
in Sfax, as well as a management information
system for SORETRAS; a pilot national training
program for sector personnel; technical
assistance; and studies. The project would
improve conditions for regional (non-central)
travelers in and around Greater Tunis and for
SORETRAS' passengers. The main project risk is
that sector policy measures may lag behind
physical works. This would be addressed
through the technical assistance and training
components to strengthen sector institutions,
as well as a strong Bank supervision effort.
Particular attention will be given to extension
of the parking meter program and realignment of
parking charges in downtown Tunis to restrain
traffic and thus relieve congestion downtown.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Forein        Total
…US $ Million 
Primary Roads in Greater Tunis                       22.9         14.4       37.3
Public 'Transport in
Sfax (SORETRAS)                                     2.6          3.0        5.6
- Maintenance Facility, Stops and Termina:Ls    (2.6)           (2.8)      (5.4)
- Management Information System                    ( - )2/      (0.2)      (0.2)
Training                                              1.0          2.3        3.3
Technical Assistance                                  0.5          1.6        2.1
Professional Services                                 0.6          1.2        1.8
Studies                                                -  1/       0.3        0.3
Base Cost                                        27.6         22.8       50.4
Physical Contingencies                            4.9          4.0        8.9
Price Contingencies                              13.5          9.6       23.1
Total Project Cost                                   46.0         36.4       82.4
Front-end Fee                                      -           0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required                         46.0 2/      36.5       82.5 ./
Financing Plan:
Local     Foeg         Total
US  S Million ---------
Bank                                                              33.0       33.0
Government                                           40.8           -        40.8
SORETRAS                                              4.6           -         4.6
Bilateral and other
Multilateral Donors                                 0,6          3.5        4.1
Total                           46.0         36.5       82.5
Estimated Disbursements;
Bank FY  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
-------------- US i Million ------------------
Annual                             1.0   4.3   5.9   7.4   6.3   4.1   2.8   1.2
Cumulative                         1.0   5.3  1:1.2  18.6  24.9  29.0  31.8  33.0
Economic Rate of Return: 35 percent (for 75 percent of project base costs)
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4960-TUN, dated April 30, 1984
Map No. 18020R
1/ Less than $50,000
2/ Including US$14.8 million of taxes and duties



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRDI
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$33.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance a Second Urban Transport project. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent of the Bank loan, would have a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government of Tunisia would onlend the equivalent of $6.1 million
of the loan to Societe Regionale de Transports de Sfax (SORETRAS) for 17
years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983. This part and
the country data sheets, attached in Annex I, reflect the report's findings.
They also reflect preliminary results for 1983. An economic mission to review
the performance of the first two years of Plan implementation visited Tunisia
in April 1984; revised projections for Annex I are being prepared.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new hydrocarbon reserves, although it is too early to
assess their exact potential. The country also has considerable tourism
potential, and efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it
rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. An active family planning policy
pursued by the Government led to a decrease in fertility and birth rates.
However, since at the same time mortality rates also decreased, the annual
natural demographic growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in
the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover, after 1976, the net
emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures
taken in the EEC countries and Libya.



- 2 -
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out: of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of the total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports.  They
provided 52 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1983, while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided
19 percent.
6,       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976; output
in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average below the demographic
rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather conditions; textile
production and tourism development grew at a slower pace mainly because of
difficulties in European markets. By contrast, manufacturing industry other than
textiles, as well as energy, phosphate processing, construction, and construction
materials expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particularly in
investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from 1976 to
1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports, and the terms
of trade improved significantly due to sharpLy higher post-1974 export prices for
crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic
savings financed on average over 76 percent of investment, which increased from an
average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current
account deficit was easily financed; grant aid and private investments (mainly for
oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder was mainly covered
by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s total foreign debt
increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service ratio dropped from 15
percent in 1971 to 10 percent in 1979.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistributing
domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to about one-third
of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the highest shares among
middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these revenues was saved, and public
savings financed close to two-thirds of total. Government capital expenditures.
This comfortable public finance situation permitted a rapid increase in payments to
private consumers and public enterprises. Such transfers, including those for
social security, accounted for 19 percent of total current budget outlays and over
7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved, except
for the employment target, and open and hidden unemployment remains a serious
problem for the Tunisian economy at present. The actual GDP growth fell short by
1.2 percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the intvestment objective of 30 percent of
GDP was fully met.  Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel,
expansion of the oil refinery) was, however, delayed, but private sector
investments, both foreign and national, exceeded Plan targets. Although job
creation objectives were achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except
construction, these sectors could only absorb, 90 percent of new job seekers at a
time when migration to Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment
rate, estimated at about 12 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not
declined.



10.       In 1982 and 1983, the current economic situation suffered a series of
setbacks. GDP in constant prices stagnated in 1982. Three factors accounted for
this poor performance: adverse weather conditions which depressed agricultural
output and consequently, agro-industrial output; recession in Europe which reduced
exports, particularly chemicals and tourism; and exceptional technical problems in
key intermediate industries. GDP is estimated to have increased by 4.5 percent in
1983 reflecting a stronger performance in the industrial sector. The slowdown in
output, coupled with a large increase in minimum wages and some price
liberalization led to an unusually high inflation (13.7 percent) in 1982. In 1983,
inflationary pressures were slowed down by an administered reduction in producer
prices and sales prices of industrial products and also by an intensification of
price controls. The consumer price index in December 1983 was about 6 percent
above the December 1982 level. During 1982-83, the current account deficit of the
balance of payments experienced a sharp deterioration reflecting: the fall in
petroleum export receipts and the reduction in exports of agricultural products;
the increase in imports of food products and consumer goods; and the slowdown in
tourism due to the unfavorable international economic environment. The
deterioration in the trade balance led to a steady drain in the level of foreign
reserves in the first half of 1983 and recourse to commercial credit. This trend
was reversed in the second half of the year as petroleum exports picked up. Gross
reserves at the end of 1983 were equivalent to 1.3 months of imports.
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The main objectives of the Sixth Development Plan
(1982-86) are employment generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the
three least developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, engineering industries, and
tourism.
12.       The outlook for investment and growth will partly depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Oil and gas exploration programs
under way have been encouraging. Based on known reserves, and with the possible
exploitation of smaller fields that recently became profitable, it is generally
expected that domestic oil and gas production could be stabilized at about its
present annual level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the
decade. Barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic
demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a decline in
energy revenues. To meet this challenge, the Government has introduced policy
changes in the Sixth Plan to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The GDP growth objective of the Sixth Plan of 6.0 percent per annum will
be difficult to achieve in view of the poor performance in 1982 and 1983. Growth
of traditional exports (tourism, textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) will be
insufficient to compensate for the projected decline in oil export revenues.
Production diversification and export promotion, in particular for engineering
products, will also take time to bear fruit. The Government's strategy, therefore,
rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to control import growth.
Terms of trade are unlikely to improve. This would not only affect the external
account but also result in slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public
savings.



- 4 -
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projected a decline in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81. A major objective was also to correct
recent capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. These two objectives will be difficult to achieve; investment
remained at 30 percent of GDP in 1983 and job creation fell short of the projected
level. Therefore, more resources will have to be allocated to small and medium
manufacturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban areas.
Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incentive system
toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to establish industrial
zones and offer direct subsidies for job creation in new projects in underdeveloped
regions, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts cnd Household Workshops was created.
In order to promote a more efficient techinical and financial management of the
public and private modern sectors, the Plan assigns a major role in project
e otion and supervision to an expanded network of new development banks (two
opeaed in 1981 and four in 1982); they are joint ventures with foreign investors
and should prevent the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of
public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints require a reassessment of the present
policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation, and public
sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a better-adjusted fiscal
system should be used to restrain final consumption and stimulate savings. As
first encouraging steps in 1981 and 1982, sizeable price increases in energy and
agricultural products were implemented, and the whole interest rate structure was
revised upward, rates on saving accounts and term deposits and industrial lending
rates being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. Earlier this year when the 1984 budget
was presented, the Government announced its decision to increase bread prices
sharply and remove the subsidy on bread, cereals and cereal products, a subsidy
which represents about 2 percent of GNP. The price increases triggered social
unrest and the Government had to abrogate its decision and revise the initially
presented budget. There were sizeable increases of the legal minimum wage in 1982
and 1983, mainly to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the
Government recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism, and
improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has come a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty.
About 16 percent of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment
among the young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social
problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs result:ed in a reduction of the ratio
of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total population
in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, t:he overall number of this
group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some rural zones in the
center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural performance. Income



- 5 -
differentials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as budgetary
expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government is focusing on the
zones of poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the gross
enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30 percent for
secondary education. The performance of the system could, however, be improved by
expanding vocational training programs, improving their relevance and
responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the poor and rural
groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and their
overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital statistics
(para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the availability of
hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral system is not functioning
properly. As a result, the rural poor are often excluded. Closely linked to
nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality remains high relative to other
middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply focuses more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health, shelter),
and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In education, two
reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a nine-year schooling
period for all children, and the second would create polytechnical high schools
cornbining basic and technical education. In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more
resources to preventive medicine and nutrition education. Finally, as regards
housing, public subsidized programs are directed to the neediest population
groups. The housing demand from households above the minimum standard income can
be satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, the growth of foreign borrowing was modest and a growing share of foreign
funds was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. Foreign loan
commitments averaged about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form
of official assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from
bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and
some oil-surplus countries. About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing terms
were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity, including a
grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1983, debt outstanding and disbursed was
estimated at about $3.7 billion, or 45 percent of GNP; debt service was 17 percent
of export revenues in 1983.
22.      The current account deficit reached $740 million in 1983, and is projected
to grow to about $l.0 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from abroad are
projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at 1983 dollar exchange rates) with
ODA providing half of the total. The external debt-service ratio is not expected
to increase significantly in the medium term.



- j6 -
23.      Prospects depend on a timely implementation of policy changes to curb
domestic demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommended a low growth scenario in order to
preserve the country's relatively highL financial stability and creditworthiness.
This objective remains even more crucial if the country is to succeed in mobilizing
the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the Plan. Foreign
investments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained momentum during the
last three years in line with increased activities in the oil sector, and new
incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing. The newly created
development banks (para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this
context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook in the medium term will
depend on developments in the hydrocarbon sector and on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years.  Considering its long record of prudent
balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to assume
that the Government will apply the necessary policy changes and Tunisia will
continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.  The Bank's close dialogue
with the Government on several policy aspects at the macro and micro levels will be
pursued in connection with the implementation of these policy changes.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-two loans and ten IDA
credits amounting respectively to $1,260.2 million and $75.2 million (net of
cancellations) of which forty loans and credits have been fully disbursed. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1984. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of
December 31, 1983, overall disbursements amounted to 54 percent of appraisal
estimates, which is in line with experience in other countries in the region.
Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects has
generally been above the country average, while longer than average disbursement
delays have been experienced for agricultural credit, education, highway, urban and
fisheries projects, due to project specific problems that are being addressed
through supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors,
important institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies
have been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aiims at supporting Government
efforts to:  (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular emphasis on
rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population groups; Cc)
promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and improvements in labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An important
feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the timely and
well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice by Bank staff,
the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the use of the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility, and technical assistance projects. The Bank is also
supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic



- 7 -
resources, and to secure cofinancing for the projects it assists. The latter is
particularly important for projects in the industrial sector where foreign
financing agencies rely often on the Bank's project appraisal and supervision
capabilities, and in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for long-term
investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for urban and social
development including water supply, sewerage, education, health, urban development
and the Tunis planning and public transport project has accounted for 34 percent of
Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and
tourism infrastructure has accounted for 27 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing,, mostly through the
Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET), 17 percent of total commitments. In
addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance, the first aimed at
improving the Government's capability for project identification and preparation in
the agriculture, industry and energy sectors, and the second designed to
rationalize and develop the mining industry.
28.       In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts in key
sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social development.
It will also assist projects which address the needs of the least developed regions
of the country, develop research capabilities, increase productivity, and help
reduce the gap between income groups and between urban and rural areas. Particular
attention will be paid to employment creation, institution building and
agricultural development. In addition to the proposed Second Urban Transport
project, proposed future lending would include projects for power, agricultural
development in northwestern Tunisia, rural health, urban and regional development,
irrigation, industry and energy.
29.       The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It will
be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to the
necessary adaptation process from a petroleum exporting to a petroleum importing
country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic report entitled
"Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), dated
March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued through two special studies on
hydrocarbon development and industrial employment creation. A review of the
mid-term performance under the Sixth Plan took place in April 1984.   Further
economic and sector work will include a financial sector study, an industrial
policy review, studies of educational finance and administration and housing
finance, and a review of the transport sector.
30.       The Bank and IDA accounted for about 30 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1982. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1982 (including loans from private
sources) was about 12 percent, and their share in debt service during 1982 was
11 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt is expected to be about 11 percent and their share in the debt service to
increase to about 13 percent through 1986.



-D g 
31.      IFO has invested in NPK Engrai.s (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financibre et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in
tourism projects), in Socidtd Touristique et: Hotelibre RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor (ICF), which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net cotmnitments in Tunisia totalled $8.5
million, as of March 31, 1984. Currently, 'rFC is; considering a project to
rehabilitate and modernize the fluorspar miine supplying ICF, the creation of a
leasing company which would be Tunisia's first, and a fertilizer project which
would produce phosphoric acid for export.
PART III - THE URLBAN TRMASPORT SECTOR
32.      Background.  By 1980, 55 percent of the Tunisian population of 6.4
million was urbanized, up from 33 percent in 1956. Greater Tunis alone had
1.2 million people, and was growing at 6.9 percent annually; second was
Greater Sfax (310,000 people). Urban growth problems include inadequate
infrastructure and services, unemployment and a housing shortage. Remedial
Government programs are aimed at improving condit:ions in large cities, and
developing the interior. Ruiral development programs, however, will lack
short-term impact, and city growth will continue adding pressure on urban
facilities.
33.      Urban public transport, chiefly buses running on city streets, is
vital for the functioning of major TunisiarL cities.  In the mid-1970a, when
the last surveys were undertaken, public transport carried about 70 percent of
daily non-walk journeys in Greater Tunis, and about 36 percent in Sfax where
city size, density and topography have favored the use of cycles.  At that
time, there were about 54,000 passenger cars in the country; since then,
private car trips have grown due to a stagnation in the volume and quality of
public transport services, and a rise in living standards. Car registrations
have been increasing at about 7 percent per annum, despite stiff import duties
and fuel taxes (retail gasoline prices are almost double border prices).
34.      Issues.  The four critical urban transport issues are: (a) Government
policy for public transport companies; (b) role of the private sector; (c)
strategy for Greater Tunis; and (d) staff and organization of
transport-related institutions.
35.      Government Policy for Public Transport Companies.  Outside Greater
Tunis, which is served by a combination of bus and rail services, urban public
transport services are supplied by regional trarnsport companies (SRTs).
ProbLems affecting the SRTs (e.g., poor service reliability, bus overcrowding
and relatively high production costs) reflect: lack of capital to upgrade
fleets and maintenance facilities; low staff productivity; and Government
regulations that constrain staffing, financial and operational management of
the companies. The key factor is that the Government sets overall fare levels
and imposes discount fares for school children, certain civil servants and
others. In the past, fare increases were not regular and did not follow
costs. Likewise, compensation for revenue losses due to discount fares was



too low, unrelated to actual losses and folLowed a fitful schedule. Operating
with persistent and increasing financial losses, the SRTs have relied on their
freight operations to subsidize passenger transport. However, freight
operations, also heavily regulated, have gradually become impoverished and
their service has deteriorated. The SRTs have had to cut capital expenditures
for renewing their obsolete fleets and maintenance facilities, and
increasingly, to rely on short-term Government advances and bank overdrafts to
cover expenses.
36.      In late 1983, addressing the acute financial crisis of the SRTs, the
Government wrote off their public debt as of end-1982, rescheduled their 1983
debt, approved a 16.5 percent fare increase, and injected some capital;
however, these helpful measures provided only temporary relief. What is
needed is (a) an adjustment to the capital and tariff structure of the SRTs to
achieve and maintain longer-term financial viability, and (b) the development
of an affordable social policy for public transport. The proposed project
will therefore provide: an action program for SORETRAS, the SRT serving Sfax
(acting as a model for other SRTs), designed to make its urban operations
financially viable, while upgrading its fleet and maintenance facilities; and
technical assistance to the Government to develop and implement sound
commercial practices in urban public transport.
37.      Role of the Private Sector.  The potential of private urban transport
services in general, and paratransit services in particular, is poorly tapped
in Tunisia. The ability of paratransit operations to adapt to a variety of
origin-destination patterns, volume fluctuations and passengers' ability to
pay (while creating gainful employment and requiring no public subsidy) has
been demonstrated in numerous countries, and could be an attractive complement
to the services available in Tunisia. Although the Government formally opened
transport operations to private suppliers in September 1983, past experience
has shown that this is not enough to stimulate entry to the sector. The
proposed project will address the practical issues of increasing private
sector involvement, through technical assistance to define and implement an
appropriate policy.
38.      Strategy for Greater Tunis.  In Greater Tunis, radial trips generated
by the city center are dominant, but substantial non-radial travel demand has
been stimulated by recent industrial and housing developments in the south and
the emergence of second-order centers in the north and northwest. Urban
highway and public transport networks have yet to serve these new travel
patterns, or to allow regional (and inter-regional) traffic to by-pass the
congested downtown.
39.      For a decade, the Government's medium-term strategy for transport in
Greater Tunis has been to upgrade public transport services, and
simultaneously, to use traffic management measures to maximize utility of the
street network and postpone road investments. This strategy has been largely
successful, and has made it possible for downtown traffic to keep growing at
about 10 percent per annum, with only modest capital expenditures. For the
longer term, the Government chose to invest in a light-rail system (MLT),
designed to operate on a protected right-of-way on city streets, with priority



- 10 -
at intersections. A TD82 million contract for a 30km network was signed in
1980; construction began in 1981. The original schedule called for completion
in 1984, but it will not be met due to a Government decision in late 1982 to
have the 0.75km downtown link go underground, at an estimated additional cost
of TD26 million (in 1982 prices). A contract for this link has yet to be
signed, and completion of the system will be delayed by two to three years.
40.      The downtown street system has now reached capacity.  Traffic volumes
are nearly stable over the daytime period, and stand-stills are common. There
is little off-street parking, and the regulation of on-street parking is still
in infancy; hence, parking problems have reinforced traffic congestion.  In
addition to wasting time and fuel, and worsening air pollution, congestion is
also responsible for the gradual deterioration of the downtown as a place to
live, work and shop. Although the MlT will benefit public transport users, it
will affect other road users by closing a number of important streets and
reducing capacity at numerous intersections.
41.      The Municipality of Tunis has developedc  a two-pronged strategy of
(a) selected additions and improvemeents to arterial roads (major works to be
carried out by the Ministry of Public Works' Highway Department), to remove
regional traffic from downtown streets and to improve the functioning of an
inner ring road around it; and (b) restraint on downtown-bound traffic
through, inter alia, parking charges. The proposed project would support this
strategy through improvements to the arterial network and technical assistance
to implement traffic and parking management plans.
42.      Staff and Organization of Transp rt-ReLated Institutions.  Although
the need for a unified urban transport policy is recognized, regulations and
investments are piecemeal and ineffective. This is due in part to the lack of
coordination among the institutions (naticonal or local) active in this field;
more importantly, these institutionst are short of trained, experienced staff.
The shortage of transport economists, plartners and financial analysts is
particularly damaging; in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC),
it hinders the development of an effective policy relating to SRTs and the
assessment of the investment programs that: they submit for inclusion in
Five-Year Development Plans. Similar problems affect operational levels as
well, notably, bus operations and maintenance, traffic engineering and traffic
law enforcement.
43.      In response, the Government recently created an Interministerial
Committee on Urban Transport, to initiate training programs for the sector,
develop a comprehensive urban transport policy, and oversee sectoral
development plans. Technical support to the Ccommittee will be provided by an
Urban Transport Unit (CTTU), located in tlhe MOIC.  Implementation of the
training program and the ongoing policy development process will be supported
by the proposed project.
44.      Bank Involvement and Strategy in Urban Transport.  The Bank has been
actively involved in both the urban and transport sectors in Tunisia since the
early 1970s. In the urban sector, the Bank has approved loans for three urban
development, three sewerage and five water supply projects. In the transport
sector, Bank assistance was provided under five highways, one railways and two
port projects.



- 11 -
45.      Urban Development Projects.  The Bank's first urban project in
Tunisia was the Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project
($18 million credit and loan of August 7, 1973; PCR dated February 26, 1982,
not elected for an OED review). This project financed a major upgrading
program for the National Transport Company (SNT, which serves the capital
region) and a substantial traffic management program in downtown Tunis, and
helped establish the Tunis District (the planning authority for the capital
region). The SNT program comprised renewal and expansion of SNT's fleet and
facilities, a financial restructuring plan, and technical assistance to
improve SNT's operations, maintenance and management. Although execution of
the SNT component was completed with a 3-year delay, due to problems in
securing land from the Municipality of Tunis for a bus depot, by the early
1980s SNT's operations and maintenance were substantially improved. For the
period covered by Bank/Government agreements, the SNT was granted capital and
tariff increases above those originally estimated; thereafter, the financial
situation of the SNT began deteriorationg, due to the failure of tariffs to
keep up with costs, the Government's new concern with the MLT and the
consequent uncertainty regarding the SNT's future role. On the non-physical
side, the SNT component did not reach its objectives: schemes to formally
relate the amount of financial support that the SNT would receive from the
Government to the staff productivity of the company were not implemented,
largely due to weakness of the supervising ministry (MOTC). The Tunis traffic
management program was successfully implemented by the Traffic Management
Division especially created in the Municipality. The Tunis District had a
slow start before it was able to have a significant influence on the capital
region's development, especially as regards housing and land use; in the last
few years, the District has lost a great deal of its political support and
authority. Overall, the project did not significantly contribute to the
strengthening of technical and institutional capabilities in the sector,
mainly because it did not aim at formal training of local staff. The Second
Urban Development Project ($19 million loan of May 31, 1979) and the Third
Urban Development Project ($25 million loan of January 11, 1983) are shelter
projects. The Second Project includes upgrading and sites-and-services
for low-income families in Tunis and Sfax; it also includes a small traffic
management component in Sfax, technical assistance and training. The project
was implemented successfully in Sfax, but expropriation problems and the poor
implementation capability of the Tunis Municipality resulted in delays in
execution there. The project is now expected to be completed by 1985. The
Third Project continues the sites-and-services and upgrading approach, extends
it to cities of the interior (Le Kef, Jendouba), and supports the restruc-
turing of the sector's institutional framework to permit the "wholesaling" of
projects. In support of the proposed project, the Third Project provides
funds for: an adviser to the CTTU (para. 43); update of the Greater Tunis
highway master plan; studies to design interim improvement programs for the
urban operations of the Sfax and Sousse SRTs;  and four important
policy-related studies. These studies deal with productivity, fares and
finances of SRTs; involvement of private transport operators; parking
management in central Tunis; and development of a pilot training program for
the sector. The recommendations of these studies will be implemented through
the technical assistance and training components of the proposed project.



- 12 -
46.      Highways Proiects.  Of the five hi,ghways projects in Tunisia, the
First (1971, US$24.0 million; PPAR No, 2772, December 26, 1979) and the Second
(1976, US$28.0 million) were for construction and improvement of about 500 km
of primary and secondary highways. The Third (1978, US$32.0 million) and the
Fifth (1982, US$35.5 million) concentrate on rural roads and agricultural
facilities. The Fourth (1980, US$36.5 million) provides for maintenance and
rehabilitation of the road network. These projects include studies and
technical assistance for policy development in the intercity transport sector,
and for strengthening institutional capability of the Ministry of Public Works
(MEQ). The early projects experienced long delays due to land expropriation
problems, lack of counterpart funds, incomplete project preparation and MEQ's
inexperience. Under subsequent projects, MEQ accumulated requisite
engineering experience and implementation has improved, although some delays
in providing counterpart funds are still experienced. Progress on the policy
side has lagged; however, a Transport Planning Uniit has now been established
in the MOTC, and work on transport coordination, taxation and tariffs
(financed under the Fourth Project) will be carried out in parallel with the
initiatives regarding urban transport to be financed under the proposed
project.
47.      Bank Stratg.  The strategy for continling Bank assistance in urban
transport is based on: (a) adopting a sectcral perspective (with physical
components in several cities, and working with n,ational institutions); (b)
emphasizing policy and institutional development; (c) strengthening linkages
with non-urban transport projects; (d) blending expatriate technical
assistance with formal training of local staff; and (e) conceiving Bank
assistance as a stream of projects, providing the continuity necessary to
assure that policy-making becomes an effective, well monitored process.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.      The proposed project is the resull: of a dialogue between the Tunisian
Government and the Bank on development of the urban transport sector, based on
the findings and recommendations of an Urban Transport Review carried out by
the Bank in 1981/82. Agreement on project scope was reached during 1982,
financing for preparation was included in the Third Urban Development Loan
approved in December 1982, and preparation carried out by the Highway
Department (DGPC) of the Ministry of Public Works and the Regional Transport
Company of Sfax (SORETRAS) with the assistance of consultants began in early
1983. The project was appraised in two stages, in October and December 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 9 to 13, 1984. The Tunisian
delegation was led by Mr. H. Ben Ali, the Direcl:or General of Infrastructure
and Urban Development Projects in the Ministry of Planning, and included
representatives of DGPC, SORETRAS, MOTC and the Municipality of Tunis. The
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Republic of Tunisia - Fourth Urban
Development (Transport) Project," No. 4960-TUN of April 30, 1984, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III of
this President's Report. A map showing the location of areas covered by the
project is attached.



- 13 -
49.      Project Objectives and Description.  The objectives of the proposed
project are to: improve the level of urban transport services in Greater
Tunis and Greater Sfax and increase efficiency in supplying these services;
strengthen the capacity of sector institutions to manage and plan urban
transport systems effectively; and support the development and implementation
of a comprehensive urban transport policy. The project would consist of:
(i)      Widening and construction of interchanges, overpasses and
connections on a series of primary road segments located in a
corridor east of downtown Tunis, constituting an eastern bypass
(to be executed by DGPC);
(ii)     Construction and equipment of a 250-bus maintenance facility and
improvement of bus stops and terminals in Sfax (to be executed
by SORETRAS);
(iii)    Provision of a computer-based management information system to
assist SORETRAS with its service and manpower scheduling, spare
parts management, cost accounting and integration of cost and
financial accounts;
(iv)     Carrying out of a pilot national training program for urban
transport personnel (to be executed by MOTC);
(v)      Technical assistance to the Municipality of Tunis for
implementing parking and traffic management plans, to SORETRAS
for introducing and following up new work practices in
operations, maintenance and administration, and to the MOTC for
coordination and evaluation of the training program, for
following up policy studies related to the productivity, fares
and finances of regional transport companies (SRTs) and to
private involvement in the sector, and for future project
preparation; and
(vi)     Transport planning studies to integrate public transport,
highway investment and traffic management with urban development
plans in Greater Tunis and Greater Sfax (to be carried out by
the Tunis District and the Municipality of Sfax, respectively)
for the 1990-2000 period, including provision of computer
equipment for developing a monitoring system for urban transport
development in Greater Tunis.
50.    Project Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
(base price December 1983), excluding the front-end fee, is $82.4 million, of
which $36.4 million is in foreign exchange.  Cost estimates are based on
either preliminary engineering or sketch designs for civil works or functional
specifications for equipment. Ail estimates were checked against previous
contracts for similar investments in Tunisia. Taxes and duties estimated at
$14.8 million have been included, as well as physical contingencies
representing about 18 percent of base costs (20 percent for civil works and 15
percent for equipment) and price contingencies totalling about 39 percent of



- 14 -
base costs plus physical contingencies (7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for
1985 and 6 percent thereafter for foreign costs; 9 percent for 1984 and 8
percent thereafter for local costs). The project includes 200 man-months of
foreign expert services for the technicaL assistance and studies components
and 255 man-months of local professional services for engineering and
construction supervision.
51.    The proposed Bank loan of $33.0 miillion would finance 90 percent of the
total foreign exchange cost of the project, including the entire foreign
exchange cost for civil works, equipment, professional services and studies,
as well as 32 percent of that for technical assistance and training. The loan
would represent 40 percent of the total cost, or 49 percent of the total cost
net of taxes. In addition, it would cover the front-end fee of $0.8 million.
Cofinancing, in an aggregate amount of about $4.1 million, or about 5 percent
of total project cost, would be provided by bilateral and other multilateral
sources to cover 58 percent of the technical assistance and training component
(68 percent of the foreign cost and 30 percent of the local cost).   The
Government has started making contacts with potential cofinanciers, many of
which have expressed interest. Assurances werts obtained during negotiations
that the required cofinancing would be availabLe by March 31, 1985 or that the
Government would, by that date, provide the funds from other sources
(including, if need be, its own resources) to allow the program to proceed on
schedule (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(e)). The Government of Tunisia and
SORETRAS would finance 49 and 6 percent of total costs, respectively, covering
the remainder of local costs. The Bank loan would be made to the Government,
which would onlend that portion of the loan ($6.1 million) allocated for
SORETRAS' works to SORETRAS on the same terms cnd conditions as the Bank
Loan. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on these onlent
funds. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
SORETRAS, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(a)). Details of project costs and financing are contained in the Loan
and Project Summary.
52.    Status of Project Preparation.  De:ailed engineering for first year
works and preliminary engineering for other project works are completed.
Negotiations for purchase of the land needed for the eastern bypass in Tunis
have already begun; the Government has indicated that, if necessary, it would
expropriate the land, thus ensuring timely execution of the works. No
problems are expected with expropriation under this project. In order to
ensure rapid implementation of the SORETRAS works, official transfer of land
to SORETRAS for construction of its bus maintenance facility and awarding of a
contract to complete land reclamation and preparation for this facility have
been completed.
53.    Procurement and Disbursement.  Contracts for civil works for the Tunis
roads, expected to total about $32.0 million without contingencies, would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
according to Bank guidelines. Both Tunisian and foreign contractors are
expected to bid for the works. Contractors would be prequalified and works
would be grouped in lots estimated to cost at least $0.7 million; contractors
would be allowed to bid for one or more lots in combination. Contracts for
constructing the SORETRAS maintenance facilities; and improvements to bus



- 15 -
stops and terminals, expected to total about $4.1 million, would also be
awarded through ICB, with prequalification of contractors for the maintenance
facilities. The Bank would review bidding documents for all civil works of
$1.0 million and above. SORETRAS' maintenance equipment, estimated to total
about $1.2 million, would also be procured through ICB. A margin of
preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duties (whichever is less) will
be allowed for domestic manufacturers. All ICB bid documents for equipment
would be reviewed by the Bank. Because of the modest cost involved (estimated
at about $0.3 million), the computer equipment for SORETRAS and the Tunis
District would be procured by obtaining and comparing quotations from at least
three manufacturers or suppliers. Consultants financed under the Bank loan
would be employed in accordance with Bank guidelines. For those consultants
to be financed by other sources, assurances would be sought during
negotiations that their qualifications, experience and terms of reference
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 (a); Project
Agreement, Section 2.02 (a)).
54.    The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years
as follows: 45 percent of total expenditures for civil works (excluding land
costs); 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and 75
percent of local expenditures for equipment procured locally; 70 percent of
total expenditures for professional services; and 80 percent of total
expenditures for that portion of the technical assistance and training
financed by the Bank loan. The front-end fee would be withdrawn and paid to
the Bank at loan effectiveness. The loan Closing Date would be June 30, 1992.
55.    Project Execution and Maintenance, Institution Building and Policy
Development. No problems are foreseen with the physical implementation of the
project or maintenance of project works. DGPC, which is responsible for
constructing and maintaining the national highway network, including links
that pass through urban areas, is adequately staffed and has a proven track
record for executing highway works. The maintenance cost of the new road
links to be established in the Greater Tunis area is within the budgetary and
technical capacity of the DGPC Tunis regional office, which has recently
expanded its maintenance facilities. SORETRAS is also adequately staffed and
its management has demonstrated a high level of motivation and ability to
mobilize its staff to carry out project works. The financial measures to be
taken to put SORETRAS back on sound financial footing and provision of
technical assistance will ensure that the SORETRAS facilities are properly
maintained (para. 60). The Traffic Management Division of the Municipality of
Tunis, which would oversee implementation of Tunis' parking and traffic
management plans, has shown its capability to deal with these matters in the
past.
*         56.    However, as has been discussed earlier, institutional weakness is an
obstacle to effective overall development of the urban transport sector.
The MOTC is supposed to handle coordination among the many institutions
involved in the sector, in addition to overseeing regulation and policy
development. However, its staff is inexperienced and not adequately trained
to handle effectively its responsibilities. The Interministerial Coordination
Committee for Urban Transport and its technical unit (CTTU) in the MOTC (para.
43) were created recently to help resolve the institutional coordination
problem; the staffing and work program of the CTTU were reviewed at



- 16 -
negotiations and found satisfactory.  Assurances were obtained that the
Interministerial Committee and the (OTTIJ would be maintained throughout the
project period (Loan Agreement, Section 3.t3 (a) and (b)).  In addition to
creation of this formnal structure, a significant program of training and
technical assistance is planned for the se-ctor (discussed in paras. 57-61).
57.    Sector institutions lack trained and experienced staff at all levels,
from policy development and planning down to proper maintenance procedures.
A preliminary four-year training program for approximately 2,500 technical,
professional and managerial staff in the sector was prepared during
appraisal.  The details of this program will be developed in a study to be
financed under the Third Urban Project (para. 45).  In view of the importance
of the training component, assurances were obtained during negotiations that,
as conditions of effectiveness of the bank loan, the MOTO would prepare and
present the training program proposal, as well as a specific plan of training
activities for 1985, to the Bank for approval, aind would assign a training
administrator (local) and appoint a training expert (under the technical
assistance component of the project) (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)(c) and
(d)). Furthermore, assurances were obtained that the Government would prepare
and furnish to the Bank by September 1, 1985 a detailed implementation
schedule for the complete national training program, fully endorsed by the
departments and agencies which would carry it out, and would thereafter
implement the program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09).
58.    The Government has demonstrated its comm2itment to strengthening the
urban transport sector through a number of decisions it has taken recently,
aimed at either improving the SRTs' situation (e.g., writing off their public
debt and increasing their tariffs) or at laying down the foundations for
sectoral policy (e.g., opening transport operations to private suppliers).
However, in view of the overall weakness of the sector, guidance is needed to
ensure their development into a coherent urban transport policy. As noted in
para. 45, financing for studies to be used as a basis for sector dialogue in
key areas is included in the Third Urban Project, and procedures to contract
them are currently underway. Issues relatad to the parking study are
discussed in para. 61. The study on productivity, fares and finances of SRTs
would set sector goals, estimate the costs of achieving these goals and agree
on funding and performance obligations of each party.  The ultimate objective
of this study is to establish the basis for an annual contracting process
between the MOTC and the SRTs whereby the ',RTs would agree to serve certain
routes and markets and achieve given productivity objectives, while the
Government would agree to pay appropriate compensation and approve tariff
increases needed to safeguard the SRTs' financial viability. The private
sector study would identify operating and financial characteristics of
existing private transport operators in Tunisia, analyze related Government
regulations, and propose actions (regulatory and other) necessary to stimulate
increased involvement of private operators in providing transport services.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the MOTC would prepare and
present the results of these studies to the Bank for review by September 1 and
June 30, 1985, respectively, and implement the agreed program in each area
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.10). Technical assistance is included urLder the proposed project to help
with this implementation.



- 17 -
59.    SORETRAS.  SORETRAS is 90 percent publicly owned and provides urban
passenger as well as freight and interurban passenger services. The share of
SORETRAS' Urban Division in providing passenger services in Sfax has declined
from about 36 percent of daily non-walk trips in the mid-1970s to about 30
percent currently. This is due to the fact that buses are overcrowded and
old, and services unreliable. Costs are high due to a difficult route
structure, inadequacy of maintenance facilities and inefficient organization
and work practices. The financial situation of SORETRAS' Urban Division, like
that of most SRTs in Tunisia, is unsatisfactory (para. 35). In spite of
annual fare increases in 1981-1983, SORETRAS' operating revenues from urban
passenger services have not covered direct operating expenses since 1980.
While overall fare increases have lagged behind inflation, the main reason for
the shortfall has been the Government's failure to fully and regularly
compensate SORETRAS for the social tariffs (mostly for school children) the
Govermaent imposes; about 40 percent of SORETRAS' passengers pay discount
fares. The consequences for SORETRAS' Urban Division have been serious: the
accumulated accounting deficit at the end of 1983 was estimated to be TD2.4
million; the 1984 deficit (before compensation) is forecast to reach TD2.2
million. SORETRAS' Urban Division has survived by cross-subsidization from
the company's freight operations, by borrowing short-term, and by delaying
payments to suppliers, to the national social security fund and to the
Government (taxes). None of these measures can continue indefinitely. The
balance sheet for SORETRAS as a whole shows that in 1980, accumulated losses
already exceeded the social capital invested in SORETRAS, and by the end of
1982, they were four times higher. The most critical issue is the large
amount of short-term debt (TD7.8 million in 1982). The Government's decision
in 1983 to write off the public debt of all SRTs as of the end of 1982 will
help remove accumulated losses of SORETRAS from its balance sheet. However,
SORETRAS remains short of cash and without the means to upgrade its aged plant
and fleet.
60.    The Government recognizes that more permanent measures must be taken to
help the SRTs. It has decided to use the proposed project as a test case to
resolve the problems of one SRT, SORETRAS. Based on this experience, the
problems of other SRTs would be addressed more effectively in the future. It
is recognized that SORETRAS' financial problems are too serious to be resolved
immediately, and a program has been developed to allow gradual improvement,
with the objective of putting SORETRAS' urban passenger transport services on
a sound financial footing by the end of 1988. As a specific measure of its
financial viability, agreement was reached at negotiations that SORETRAS would
maintain a working ratio, i.e. the relation of direct operating expenses to
operating revenue for its urban passenger services, of no more than 0.79:1 in
1985, 0.76.1 in 1986, 0.73.1 in 1987, 0.71:1 in 1988 and 0.70:1 thereafter.
In order to achieve these ratios, which would allow SORETRAS to cover its debt
service obligations as well as generate funding for replacement and expansion
of the company's productive assets, it was agreed that: (i) SORETRAS would
be allowed to retain the taxes on revenues it would have to pay to the
Government over the 1984-88 period, amounting to about TD2.8 million, and
would use these retained funds for the purchase of productive assets; (ii)



- 18 -
the Government would fully compensate SORETRAS for social tariffs starting in
1984, amounting to an annual average of TD2.6 million between 1984-91
(compensation for the period January 1 - September 30, 1984 to be a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank Loan - Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(e)); and
(iii) SORETRAS would before October 31 of each year starting in 1984, review
the adequacy of its financial resources, including specifically its tariffs,
and thereafter review with the Government and the Bank its fare proposals for
the following year; and the Govern:ment would promptly after such review take
all action necessary to enable SORETRAS to increase its tariffs or take other
measures satisfactory to the Bank to attain the ratio specified for each
year. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SORETRAS and the
Government would take all necessary action to implement the above financial
action plan according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.11; Project Agreement, Section 4.05), and that SORETRAS would
maintain a working ratio of no more than 0.70:1 at all times after 1988
(Project Agreement, Section 4.06). Finally, assurances were obtained that
SORETRAS would submit to the Bank for review by September 30 of each year its
investment plan and financial projections for the next five years (Project
Agreement, Section 4.04). This investment plan would include a fleet renewal
and expansion program, which SORET]RAS will unctertake outside the project using
Government-guaranteed loans and its own resources. SORETRAS' proposed fleet
purchases have been reviewed and found satisfact:ory by the Bank. SORETRAS'
finiancial rehabilitation and fleet expansion will go in tandem with the
physical investments and technical assistance (3 experts) provided under the
proposed project to restructure SORETRAS' service network, improve maintenance
and passenger facilities and improve operations, maintenance and
administration. In view of the importance of the technical assistance to
effective project implementation, it was agreed that the experts would be
employed by March 31, 1985.
61.    Parking.  The primary road investments to be done in Tunis, by
dilverting through-traffic away from the downtown area, will liberate some road
capacity therein. If no other measures were taken, this reserve capacity
would be quickly filled by induced car traffic, thus recreating a state of
permanent congestion. To prevent this, the project will support
implementation of traffic restraint through parking charges.  A parking meter
program has already been introduced in Tunis at the initiative of and financed
by the Municipality.  There is not yet, haoweve!r, a clear policy as to the
level of charges (which should ultimately be consistent with land rents), or
the extent of area coverage. One of the studies financed under the Third
Urban Project will help define an appropriate parking policy, and experts
would be financed under the propos,ed project to help the Municipality of Tunis
implement the results. Assurances were obtairned during negotiations that the
Municipality would prepare and present tto the Government and Bank for approval            4
a draft parking management plan by May 1, 1985, including measures concerning
extension of the parking meter program and realignment of parking meter rates,
and implement the agreed plan according to a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). The implementation would be supported by
seminars, as part of the project's training component, aimed at improving
police enforcement of traffic regulations.



- 19 -
62.    Supervision and Monitoring.  In view of the project goal of institution
building and policy development, a significant program of Bank supervision
missions is planned for the project. In addition, key indicators of project
progress have been agreed, and assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government and SORETRAS would submit to the Bank progress reports on
April 30, August 31 and December 31 of each year (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06(b)(iii); Project Agreement, Section 2.05(b)(iii)).  Assurances were also
obtained that SORETRAS would provide, by April 30 of each year, a report on
key indicators and targets of its efficiency/financial performance, and take
necessary remedial action to ensure that these targets are met (Project
Agreement, Section 3.05).
63.    Audits.  SORETRAS is run as a commercial entity and thus maintains
conventional accounts. Government regulations require that SORETRAS' accounts
be audited every three years; the most recent audit, for 1981, has been
presented to the Bank and found satisfactory. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that audits for 1982 and 1983 would be prepared and presented to
the Bank by September 30 and December 31, 1984, respectively. Assurances were
also obtained that, starting with the 1984 accounts, SORETRAS would furnish to
the Bank, within six months after the end of each fiscal year, copies of its
financial statements for such year, would have its accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and would submit certified audit
reports to the Bank for review and comment within nine months after the end of
the fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section 4.03). SORETRAS would maintain
separate accounts for its freight and passenger operations, with its passenger
accounts further subdivided into urban and intercity operations. For the
DGPC, MOTC, Municipality of Tunis, District of Tunis and Municipality of Sfax
project activities, the project accounts would also be audited and submitted
to the Bank within the same time period (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). An
understanding was reached during negotiations that the Controller General of
Finance, who has independent status and is acceptable to the Bank, would do
this audit.
64.    Justification and Risks.  In the context of urban transport planning,
public transport, highway and traffic management alternatives compete for
scarce resources. In the Greater Tunis area, a major public transport project
(MLT) is under construction and the existing bus network will be scaled down
and reoriented to achieve a unified system. Traffic management methods are
already being applied. Highway investments have, however, been lacking.
Investments in the Greater Tunis primary road bypass (representing 64 percent
of total project base costs) will improve conditions for regional
(non-central) travel for all highway-based transport modes: private and
public, passenger and freight. It is not possible to evaluate precisely the
distribution of impacts, but they are expected to benefit people making
longer, interperipheral trips, in accordance with the city's urban development
policy to favor the development of non-central locations. The diversion of
traffic from the downtown area, if accompanied by measures as noted in para.
61 to avoid induced additional traffic, would facilitate the carrying out of
business, shopping and cultural activities therein. For the economic analysis



- 20 -
of the bypass, benefits were evaluated in terms of vehicle operating cost and
passenger travel time savings, and t:he analysis was carried out by treating
the bypass as a single investment as well as by dividing the bypass into five
parts and evaluating the economic worth oi each part on an incremental basis.
The overall rate of return was calculated at 36 percent; various sensitivity
tests show that the whole package is acceptable (rate of return over 10
percent) under all likely scenarios. The increimental analysis of each segment
also shows acceptable rates of return (17 to 73 percent).
65.    The SORETRAS improvement program (representing 11 percent of total
project base costs) would improve the frequency, reliability, convenience and
comfort of SORETRAS' services for its passengers. Evaluating the benefits in
terms of capital cost savings (with more buses available due to improved
maintenance, less new buses need to be bought for the expected level of
patronage) and operating and maintenance cost savings (with improved staff
efficiency, less new staff would be needed), the rate of return was calculated
at 29 percent. Savings in operating costs represent the largest contribution
to this analysis. If they do not materialize, the rate of return would fall
to 14 percent. If any two of the three categories of benefits defined above
should fail to materialize, the rate of return would fall to 10 percent or
below.  Careful attention will therefore be given to monitoring the
productivity of SORETRAS' operations and maintenance staff.
66.    The weighted average rate of return for the Tunis and Sfax physical
components is 35 percent. The need for the training, technical assistance and
studies components, which were not included in the economic analysis, is
directly related to major policy and institutional objectives of Bank
assistance in the sector.
67.    No problems are foreseen with physical implementation of the project,
but there is a risk that progress on sector policy may lag behind, although
the Government has already shown its comnmitment to change (para. 58). The
project's technical assistance and training components, accompanied by a
strong Bank supervision effort, should help strengthen sector institutions and
overcome this risk. For the Tunis bypass investment, there is a risk that if
there is no complementary parking initiative, the benefits of the project in
downtown Tunis could be negated. This risk is minimized by the success of the
parking meter program already in place in parts of the city at the
Municipality's own initiative. As regards the Sfax component, there is a risk
that the growth in demand for SORETRAS' services may be slower than predicted,
either because of increased car traffic or1 competition from privately-provided
transport operators.  However, demand estimates were based on a conservative
rate of traffic growth, and past experience in Tunisia suggests that there is
substantial latent demand for urban public transport.  Also, competition from
private operators is expected to affect only the outlying, low density
portions of the longer SORETRAS lines, where the smaller vehicles generally
favored by these operators give therm a comparative advantage. This would lead
to redeployment of SORETRAS' larger vehicLes on more profitable urban routes,
rather than causing a loss of traffic. This risk is therefore low and well
worth taking, given the urgent need to improve public transport services in
Sfax.



- 21 -
68.    Justification for Project and Bank Support.  The Bank's 1982-Urban
Transport Review recognized that Tunis' population growth had led to a
situation where road infrastructure investments were required to ensure urban
transport services of reasonable quality, pointed to the deteriorating
financial situation of the public transport companies, and identified
institutional, manpower and policy weaknesses as impediments to developing the
sector. All of these areas will be addressed under the proposed project.
Bank involvement in this effort is justified in view of: (a) the preeminence
of the institution-building aspect of the project; (b) the Government's
willingness to consider important policy changes which, however, need guidance
to ensure their development into a coherent urban transport policy; and
(c) the need to carefully select those infrastructure investments to be
undertaken, in view of limited Government resources.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and SORETRAS, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SORETRAS,
approval of a sector training program proposal and specific plan of training
activities for 1985, assignment of a training administrator and appointment of
a training expert, and payment by the Government to SORETRAS of compensation
for social tariffs for the period January 1 - September 30, 1984 would be
special conditions of effectiveness.
70.    I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
L                                                                   A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 7, 1984
Washington D.C.



. -  22  -                                                                     ANNEX I
TAILS a      A                                            Page 1 of 6
TUNISIA                   - SOCIAL I0ICATOU  DATA SUSI
TMSUlilst7.A                                         GiIUIS (¶dIO8Tl D AYIAG6S) /a
1DST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
uc                    MCT/bIDDLE INCOmz          MlDDkE ItCOKE
1$60/        1970_k  ISTUMT1Sk         M. iJJICA 6 9.D EAST    LAT. AIRICA & CARit
AIA (131WU SQ~. M)
TOTAL                                   t63.6        163.6         163.6
ACRICULTUSAL                             69.6         70.3          72.5
Gm   CIpTA (CB$)                           210.0         370.0       1420.0               1340.0                      2068.2
suios amewnou m cAtiti
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL IQUIVALENT)          173.0        361.0        652.0                 810.4                      1407.6
PIWILArTIl  M  VITL SISTSCS
POPULATION,IQD-YEAI (THOUSANDS)    4221.0           5127.0        652S.0
URKAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)            36.0         43.5          52.9                 47.4                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTtONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (KILL)                                    10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      19.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHEJ                                    21LO
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                            25.8         31.3         38.9                  36.0                        35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                 60.7         72.9         87.5                 449.0                       93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE 2)
0-14 YRS                             43.4          46.2         40.7                  43.9                       40.1
15-64 YRS                             52.5          50.0         55.6                 52.8                        55.8
65 AND ABOVE                            4.2          3.8          3.7                   3.3                        4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (M)
TOTAL                                   1.8/c        1.9/c         2.2/c                2.9                         2.3
URBAN                                   1.2          3.8          4.0                   4.6                         3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             46.9         40.6          34.2                 42.5                        31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             21.0         14.6           9.1                 12.0                         8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTtON RATE                  3J5           3.2           2.5                  3.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                . .        29.2        280.9
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         10.0         21.3
FWDD AND IhITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71L00)                            97.0         96.0        127.0                  97.5                      113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF R)UIRiMENTS)            83.0         8d.0        116.0                102.3                       111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              52.0          57.0         74.0                  72.0                       67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             13.0         14.0         23.0/d               17.8                        34.L
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              36.1         24.5           9.1                 15.2                         5.3
IIIALTS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            46.1         54.2         60.6                  57.2                       64.6
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          158.9         231.3         87.6                 104.2                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATUR (%POP)
TOTAL                                    .          49.0         63 0'. f8             59.3                       64.8
URBAN                                    *            *          97.07e t             8 84.9                      77.8
RJRAL                                                            25.07 O    *          37.5                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         62.0            .          .                                  54.6
URBAN                                    ..        I00.0         42.0/e                  6. 69.8
RUPAL                                    .          34.0            ..                   ..                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             10030.0        5930.0       3690.0                3536.0                     1776,0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                    ..        730.0        890.0                Ld20.7                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                410.0         410.0        460.0                643.3                       477.0
URBAN                                230.0/        310.0        350.0/h              545.0                       667.5
RURAL                               1040.0Zi    1270.0         1230.0;7h            2462.0                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 .         24.1         25.0th                26.4                       27.2
WOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                5.2/S         5.5L*
URBAN                                    ..          5.1/S        5.51
RURAL                                    .           5.17i'        S.6**
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          3.2/i         3. L/
URBAN                                                2.77i        2.6.
RURAL                                    .           3.6i          3.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    . .        24.0/t       34.2L                 46.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..         68. i2                77.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..          6.G                  16.1
_.---- ____ -____________________ -----------------------------------------------  -......................   _________ ____ --------------------



- 23 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                           Page  2  of  6
TUNISIA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                                  REFEBRNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE TN-COKE
1960/b       1970/b  ESTIMATK/b       N. AFRICA & MID EAST    LAT. AMERlCA & CARIB
EDUCATIOI
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY: _TAL                         66.0        101.0        103.0                 89.6                      105.0
MALE                      88.0        121.0        118.0                104.8                      106.3
FEMALE                    43.0         80.0         88.0                 72.4                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      12.0         23.0         27.0                 41.7                       40.0
MALE                      19.0         33.0         34.0                 52.8                       38.6
FEMALE                     5.0         13.0         20.0                 31.2                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)             23.5          11.1         27.3                10.3                        34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               61.0         47.0         39.0                 31.9                       30.7
SECONDARY                             16.0         28.0         20.0                 23.3                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (7)                 15.5         24.0/i        62.0                43.3                        79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             10.5         13.0          18.3/i              18.0                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            40.3         75.7         157.0               138.1                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.1         14.0          47.1                45.6                       108.3
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                18.6         15.9         43.6                 31.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          1.6            *-          1.5/d               1.7                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             1138.0       1215.0       1693.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       6.0          7.7          8.4                 10.7                       24.8
AGRICULTUdE (PERCENT)                 56.0         50.0         35.0                 42.5                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    18.0         21.0         32.0                 27.8                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7         25.9                 25.6                       31.3
MALE                                  50.2         44.2         46.9                 45.4                       49.8
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6          4.4                  5.6                       14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          2.1           1.7                 1.B                         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         17.
HIGHEST 20% OF dOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         42.07..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..          6.0± .
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         15
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        204.0/d              276.1                      289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..         97.o7'h             177.1                      184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR3AN                                   ..           ..        193.0/d              400.0                      519.8
RURAL                                   . .          ..        193.07/              283.3                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELO4 .AASJLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Y)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         20.0id               22.0
RURAL                                   ..           .          1. 5.0/d             30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N U r E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to emigration, population growth rate Is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1982; /f Access to
piped water only: /g 1962; /h 1976; /i 1966; /j 1975.
*   Based on recent Official sources, updated percentages of population having access to safe water are:
total (70.0), urban (91.0), rural (46.0). These figures will be included in the next version of the
social indicators data sheet.



-     4 -                                                                                 ANNEX  I
DEFINITIO1NS OF SOC14 IA.ND)lOATORS                                                                  Pa~ge       3   7of    6
ety "blebcas  a t the lac1, of aondar4diwed dwftntttano and otntshptt aced by dlftfarct acnrawa   olsa9tnt da2ta . t does tee, n-nsthslss  usflor
Owetlbe  orders of esgoltuod, todlonte  trwnds, and tharoctertie  certain mojur dtfferonawe botsn   nn-                lt
The reference. groups see (11  tho sage waunry group aft sn, tubjeut coutry tnt { 2) a  .alt ry Hito.p atch e-Watew           ih ., 19s  toeraroton  than the country Sroup of tho
ea bjeu    nuto  (onue.pt fat "Hlgo Inuno-' Oil Enp.terte` you- Pt rho, 'fMddlo  1ninwe Na nth Ate to ant MNdluu, Soot' ts oho  bI ceut  of stone w"                   ao-attr
enso l..LdI   on t .Iton  ae o fa  a  urn cod.lootr to  'n hr    hosIIoalaor   ny  -atul ia, ouyor tog tnt Value of one bodI.cr to                       A  time eson  the countryMen
refore.tu.w:  graupe.
"Tsl   , oc  sartuo  Itna utnyttong lone otosd Inland auton e; INtO,                            -     _ pIsounqalf          r0oerl           ool  tuteat               leI
9I   to15   oe                                                                                       aea  o   wnNweay  sn. uuotw   dtidad  by timber of psron
tot arape, poecuwo., wordet snd ~~~hitbngrdo       I Io   a  bfalW; 1990,                   nettsing -antLtle,
19 70 and 1980 deta.                                                                               rnPla ni   No  laltd - tetol, anton.~ and natal -,yapuLotionltt,
uthi aid ,Irua dll~dtedd by their roe ynttoo neeof hospita .beds
GNPt Phi CAPiToA_nUg. - OGNPoosetsainatteuen nerthett                      pto                            oVeilahla In pIhll  and ytiaote gone. ro  and Iaeoaled hospItal and
soot tonerolan nthod us larlld Ba   ta   17-I  boll;ehabilitnutlon  aentare,   lospitale  are otsbtto'heenta  peretnty  steffed
(Nil,. 1970, end 1981 data,                                                                             by u I .toat ona phyablon..  trbteens               oding prtnalPaIy .ostodlel
ueI  atnt In;ldad.  Su...l hucyitea , hauen, Inalude health end
ENERGYo CONSlngyoIog Pt9 loPlTA - Aonualtapparnt oooan,upttao of au.sorot-lndlolP-neanr  sonn - INetst cfe.d ty e phyeialen (bat by a aedtoeli
priney eorgy  woelend  tgnIS, t'petolu,        ues  few sod nydro-, -ul ooe                      uealatat,   nrg,   t~ldntie,an.  ahohote    It-ptIet .sooendettan endd
and gocherol  slotrleapl  I  kllaruzg of coat neuoalont p5r0 opeto;                           prod       tlr   og  o   els    otlts    frsettolpeae
699,1970, end 191R  date,                                                                              urban notyttolo  Inaluds aWHO.  rolo/sae   hsIas   o   u
MPULATION AND VITAI 3TATISTICS ~~~~~~~huapittat, bal orrul -                                            -         no     amol   and outl And eatarntty tat ters.
~Tomet Poyalaton  OttNer   toneda   - hAs of July I; 19h0, 1970, and 1991                              AtlgaonievtlNd- Outel  uabrt ot edetaslone to at dte,herge
anang vonutrlesl 1990, 1970, oit 1981 dwa.a                                                                  flea at R-hoohld (pontoonD  Dro  hauseha1t  - toat,l  urbso, an   "ard
lateluteon  Proleattoow                                                       -~~~~Kh~~hAildMa vo= lOtIa    gor-p at  indiaduals  m. share Itoi lg qusots r
g~flfjp4g~~l~g5f,O0l -Currant Populuttan yr(nol-nns are hbs  ond 1990                          RedDtheur attn etla    a  ordro  ldo  sa  or  Dopno  be totlatdc It
tnnulyapeletaaniy  age and~0 se cn hot   atla    n  fortett                                the hntuohhcd f,IDo stttttol  upc
tao.Projection por..eter   tt    oteiyraw   a                  Iow    frho                                          -D.Mapo    tpa~jp Pron   totol. urben. odd  .u...  .....g nes..
lenol  aesotog   ift  t.eoony ot berth Iers...oID  aittn  r-uttypt pano   @aa     rnu  l   l   ra,ofrrl  oatdoeetos
oeyito  Inco.s la-, and two..s 1100f ewPeotancy  et.blltingD  ot 77.5                               deaitgo, reoywatenay.   u lnsatli  non-penranent etuouesad
peer.  The poroonters far fertility rotn eleo hensth are la_el                                      unoccupIed torte.
egeusag detline L In ferilItY eatoedlog  to Inonos Ile.al and pot..olyanoa  00 Cl.ttrtctt HIraronaf'Ialns       otl   ra,ad rural -
plnIng Dsrt Euno        ,teh Io.e. ry L. thenasto   one of PnIw   "to                              lonolaa    oiioonen s                  trety In  oana qurst:        s  ewetg
coNnclo    f nontalia td taratlity traced  too pojaotoyrpotee,                              of tott1, ubon1, end ou-a  doelliv~esapttti-aly.
Stttnao   wpleto   -In a actslionar pY     uatnthere I0 00 g-otb
alnce the blrto rate~Is equal to theo deathra.te, ond algo the ege                       EDCTIeON
atrunsurs rwaatna eangasot.   Thig Is othiened only~~~~~~~~~~~Ic,, f ot r, ttilIty ratee  -atteaned E.ralloat qottaI
decltna t  the replowoano  ael of ant  ano  oxpodut eon eats, anon                      Potaarp .,7.        sto .  aewdfwl               rose  o.ttol  ..sol  end fesele
esn  enoah    o  of vanen replete. itself  -ostly,  The etotionarY                                    .orol.oonta  al  yt  at tho           Droay lo-e  asp-roetag.of atr-pe,caie
Itlvtt  heppuoco   Irheper200,ad  herteo  doln  o                                                  yaw  ato jrroto   ttoI                   _1logh  o Y lar   daeta;  o
Y...iili9iD;C 1960  1970  sot.. 1981dote                                                               pupIl  usuall  of 1  or1 yif ars  tae   oroptene  ore
br  so.    r ha  eriultaral  lon  - Coputd  ogh.Y  hou  , Ito egttlsra  lndinelthocaud
only;1990,197  en  1990 dst.                                                                      ovat.ol.nrrynnt(nrct     ofJ. ooondary  -Photatyonet  tnettItt
he peart),atd retIre  16) yise  pnd   quel. as .c.c yeoentgo  at-- ndyof                       tonl   no        . as . de Inetn of. aocrp  ntotas
yopulotlo,o  1990,  197, and 1981  dott.                                                      PpIl-reVhr  rot  -oAtrr,an                      ofadey   CoccI.  Iswudenneenroll d I
pouato    for  190-0   d98 C-70,  ds eo     efr   ,U" -1d 190-9.                            apeoeoog1 o  nacot o~dut.         ouo  o   gd1   ar   n   nr
Peer Iapuesto;190  1960, 190,od 1991 d ons,                                                      C0of-NAIMCtli0Nhih   .r                                                         d
Crd     Iet nhtA(aph-1nd      hno   det sp.r           h thoeot. of ot-er                       -awno   oti.    - o  tniua- a      e  ..ral Dearn  - P Totnal Itee""'rteAtor
y.rppoy lotIo;190   195070,an   1960781      d                           I.    d daadaustaocIt   hoegt  ettl0oue                                              esae  cs ereeen
hddda iisd179a peIdIahrpotne pesn08-pelcNd to7 Rectlvfenb  (oarogahoan-nd                                                                                   ofealn       l  t _pag  itesener o   et
Pto1ti..tp eases  usaly95e0       erotrg60ndngI  16,   90,ad                                          radooc:0g7ta  ptlcpr  husndt  pplett;sa7t    r
C1991.lt                                                                                               lltantht. 1a b  t0  ren..t  tai  tonn tew  ndtn ydwate a.l to  regadteettn tof  wdas
Pooty Pannto  -Masoora   Nonol  choword) -hatul nobtrof  ooeporasoo  uuoen.atfot;  ate  ur  ecen  pors- ap ttd                 h  tame.e.e.enoAsoo
"t out7 ill0                                                                                       nTdO;YCT,ThT af  noolnatnronIaW _Donnoreto noatpay..r'I  d...nod..0 Pr    O .loot
Indor 0  fpyd.Oruducala   lupttallOh9-OklQll - lndov  0 yon oap:tu                    rutlinootan  dnunouu  pronar; ly ta nrnuen;ng censeul  nwas .  It toWll bvonaldonocit-r
-fPaedto   r   tldel            go9onpoutono   ahontp  It                                         nohtilcaunta.                                                           f c41
hoeod an nactroal toorego yeodauer petaw vetghte; 1961-tn,  1970, Rontve 1991th....Do                                           I  .. I-, f, brad   t t
-daa   LfOitO  70_000.uD,    _
toenof Fquood?dulent  ofntfnIap  e   n  lbl   noutypropt   a                                                                                                        taoheaasyco    a   ntu  o    tsnoe,eadre, etc'. *oon
do.Anlaleaplleoopted           instga~_. prddtn,not   esppl  in0   l  ae      elttn    nnrooout  e   r  notr i-
oors,en  cane   in Itt.        de suplIs  ttud   onoe  feod, este                            coPablol-tl  INtO.,d17  and., 199   d..ota.o ....
I   Ieutr,nst.dofe-eeetts hted  by70  basD onheto    t            gaonew s for  urna             hartc ltrjponl-Isefrc enue                          ,taeoy hnIgsd
at hosehol   leoe(  196-95,   N7l edA 199  daa.to lIoti d.Icy   tuot err and go uat p roe _tags or tao  lbrfac;_90
PorI c D -taiuoloofptat Prucrse  perdenl-ProeI  cotes.o.pr.c....170and11.000
dw   apyo   odprdp    e   eppo   odt   olo   eoot                                                    etorto    aoIecn)-rtl   ee   o   wee-Prthstno
PlOeqeptreet.    t   l   tnow    saleo   y00   rod   o   ltu                                      LAtlalaFO RoCE        atcouo   sttl   al,sdfeslhrfre
quf  nrlpoanannaoersga  tar theoo            oorld,    oprde  byi Pa vtefe   slsooefa  notona                                             -tros     .r
ThIrd World ttad gurney; e. 191b, 190sd190dt97cn0oabn,neo   ai -d 19a sto  fppltonudr1   n  6                                                                              0rt
Pee  oe-hte .cr00.10  s     to d bfins enl-el  ed pulse -DProttlneopprlyoo toedofhw totl lobar forte
deIe    raiool   endb pa Ples   ngr     e  dsp  19       ..1-65 ,  fD..c96 1970 and 1970.
dos.hd 1-9(191150 97                                                                                  DiTh -ttO
CIld h.e    -1Iat    aele tMt,sd) -SO                uldah   s  tosn   n(et d:Idsr    Peloet   bott  fbotn  an taD, ed Ind       etodb   ihs 
ogs group1   peare,to  hldns    tti   g   eu;tene   ssolgynethe   00 ptorct   eoreet                                                             g 00peto t,at p.eteost ...0 peSeta
coentee  dta deIved  ete  It  tPbwe  1960, 1971        t.i and 1991 Onte,htneoanlde                              at,o                                      'lbo   oe.   9
asbI th;16 1-1970 and            .1ih. 191dto                                                     hal   eltt petted attn. vosdrel auIn
Onfeot !tortollnn                P-to  (DID thou and)    20u doh    of ltoftuno coo.                             Ftlaoiaola   Poe   tce   enl11   pof nooto   - rba         Io  ao
y.ro   g   e    h,ued   o   bIrths: 90.dled191dt.                                             tlt    teryboeloe   ttAt  oo                     ioe    ePttoatt
puasera_uplp   ofval hfro  trote    shurface totem   o   porsatsde  bu                               otow        oolePnrymtto%  bowl                 d lot  Iper asritol  -arhe  en  our
talepole    ot .  heoesaet of 75otne-  pson  paubttca    I   n                             peoootuocn  o  t    oconp O23                lno IrdrbedfotLb  raon
OttoId, oroo    a  b   oedrd  shb   OO  nncoabouost  foa                                            s    twasr   Po _utI Ian   etra abofute   Pouator ionow   oatd ID psiven Ir.d rAn
hoI w    brta   oros  resonl  acoh.  00010 IlyRe th 7At t               ir thou.toa                   ond ruralt-I Iosrun   o  pouato   (u..u  ud natal - d.ro1       d6 art "b e rt  t
oThei o  o  oned hFosed     do- oct65 h970 topd a98  dlupt por toyotayaaoa
rucat - Nuohr at paopte(totel, arbn, ond ruoS ), corne d hyovnID
Ipoa   an rerootoo   o     _ Ihee  rohyecttao prple tnn .,  IOSoreto dtopoe
topItoueooclec  c   o   eyec,ut   notoa   rauo,o Ivanol    tn Ouda pao  OaPart.n
h-Daearooacot.doutaw-oaoor  hpf tutor-hor1960pn1t7e ord th81 O.tt ohpu                                                                 hccea   ucyisan  Poet  tonOpoto
prALTH o  andOVERrTtYollnlARG                                                                                                                                nn  9



- 25 -
ANX I
Page 4 of 6
NISIA - Ec  l4C nVIx      _
Poplation: 6.5 million WAIF981)
(GiP per Capita: $1,420 (1981)
A1mal Growth Rates
(at 1980 prices)
(millii  US$                      Actual                        Estite    Projected
IndLicator                at current prices)
1982          1977   1978   1979   198W   1981   1982         193    1984   1985   1986
NAIOIL AC1DUN
Gross d  stic product 1/          7,905.9         5.3    7.1    7.1    6.0    5.0    1.5          4.5      6.0    5.8    5.6
Agriculture                     1,0U5.6       -10.2    4.5   -4.8    6.1    6.6   -8.7          0.5      4.0    3.9    3.7
Ixastry                         2,485.0         9.8    9.0   11.9    9.9    1.6    0.0          6.9      7.3    7.0    6.7
Services                        3,370.7         5.6    7.4    8.7    3.9    8.3    4.9          3.9      6.1    5.9    5.7
coxsiztiin                        6,297.6        10.4    5.8    4.6    9.9    7.2    4.7          4.9      7.3    6.2    3.9
Gross investueat                  2,370.1         6.9   12.9    3.9    5.8   14.5   -3.7         -4.3      1.2    1.0    1.8
Exports of goods and NFS          2, 903.3        5.5    8.2   23.3    0.7    3.0   -6.5          4.2      7.2    8.3   13.7
Imports of goods and NFS         3,665.1         16.7    9.6   14.3    7.2   13.0   -3.2         -1.2     6.3    5.9    7.4
Gross naticsal product            7,948.2         5.8    7.9    7.5    6.5    5.2    1.6          4.2      5.9    5.6    5.3
Gross natical savirgs             1,650.6        -7.2   14.8   21.8   -7.2   -1.1  -10.8         -5.4     0.5    3.1   11.5
GDP deflator                                     76.0   80.1   88.3  100.0  110.9  124.9        140.5
Exd;ange rate                                     2.33    2.40    2.46   2.47    2.03   1.69      1.47
Share of (DP at market prices (W)                        Average Amal Increase U)
(at current prices)                                  (at constant prices)
.1971    1976      191      1982     1986      1991-         1971-76   1976-81   1981-86    1986-91
Gross dcnestic product I1  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0            8.8        6.0       5.3        4.9
Agriculture            18.8     18.1     13.6      12.7     12.5      11.7            8.2       0.4        2.7       3.5
Industry              20.6      25.9     32.1      31.4     30.9     32.2            10.2       7.8       5.7        5.8
services              47.7      42.9     41.3     42.6      43.6     43.9            8.3        7.2       5.8        5.1
Ccssu,,ption              82.0      77.5     76.8     79.7      81.5     78.4            9.6        7.5       5.6        3.8
Gross investment          20.0      30.4     32.2      30.0     25.9     25.5            14.1       8.6       0.6        4.2
Exports of goods and NFS   23.8    29.1      42.1     36.7      41.4     41.3            5.6        7.9       8.2       6.3
Imports of goods and NFS   25.8    37.1      51.1     46.4      48.9     45.1           13.1       12.1       5.6       4.0
Gross national ptoduct    99.6     98.7    100.9    100.5       99.6     99.2            8.5        6.5       5.4       4.9
Net factor ircnce         -0.4     -1.3       0.9      0.5      -0.4     -0.8            -          -         -         -
Gross national savings    17.6      21.1     24.1     20.9      18.0     20.8            2.9        3.4       2.9       8.8
As % of (DP
(at current prices)
1971     1976     1981      1982
VJBLIC FINAkN
Current revemue                                       21.4      24.2     30.0      32.6
Current expenditure                                   18.9      18.5     22.4      24.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                             2.5       5.7      7.5       7.6
Capital expenditure                                    6.9      11.4      9.2       9.8
Foreign financing                                      3.2       1.7      1.4       1.9
r
1971-76       1976-81       1981-86       1986-91
C.HR INDICAJOS
GNP grc-i rate (2)                                    8.4            6.5           5.0           4.9
GQP per capita growth rate (X)                        5.4            3.1           2.7           2.3
IIDR                                                  2.7           5.4            6.0           5.4
marginal savuigs rate                                24.0          26.0           12.2          24.4
Import elasticity                                     1.51          2.02           1.06          0.82
/1  CP at market prices and ccponents at factor cost.
E2M CP II-C
'tv 1984



- 26 -
Page 5 of 6
,N,A -  &          L,, MU
Population: 6.5 millho 6idd-1981)
(ZiP per Capita. $1,420 (.981)
Imnual Grwt Rates
Awunt                                           (at 1980 Prices)
(million US$                           Actual                     Estiate   Projected
Iwlicator               at curment prices)
1982             1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    1983   1984   1985   1986
Merduhiise exprts              1,989.2             9.7    9.6   20.7    0.8    3.3   -4.6          8.0    7.1    8.6   16.0
Cnzde oil                      866.8            12.4   12.8   12.4    0.2   -8.8  -22.4          8.4   -1.8    1.8   -0.1
Other primay                    97.3             4.9  -15.7   25.1  -11.9   -0.4  -17.9    -2.7    8.3    8.2    8.2
HIfactures                   1,025.1             6.8   10.4   33.3    3.6   20.3   15.2         8.6   14.1   13.2   26.3 2/
Merchadise imlports            3,263.9            14.1   10.7   15.7    7.7    9.5   -5.5    -1.1    6.1    5.6    7.7
Food                          367.4              9.b    7.7   39.6   -6.8   14.3   -5.0          9.1    2.7    5.3    5.0
Petrole.Lg                     383.1            13.8   15.1    9.7   13.5    4.9  -34.7         4.4   11.3    8.2   21.7 2/
Mdhinery and equipment         846.5             5.5   15.4   -2.6   -4.4    4.1   -2.4   -11.1   -0.7    0.0    0.0
Others                       1,666.9            21.6    6.5   24.9   15.3    0.0    5.6    18.2    7.8    7.0    5.6
Price Irdex
maiz
Export price index                              54.8   58,7   75.5  100.0  117.4  122.9   122.7  131.9  141.9  151.9
import price index                              72.6   76,6   85.3  100.0  114.4  121.2   131.8  143.3  155.5  167.4
Terms of trade index                            75.5   76,6   88.5  100.0  102.6  101.4    93.1   92.0   91.3   90.7
Ccmposition of Merdcidise Trde (%)                     Average Amual Increase (W)
(at current prices)                               (at cmostant prices)
1971   1976   1981   1982  ,1986   1991              1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1986-91
Exports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                 4.1       8.6       10.2        5.7
Crude oil                  24.5   40.9   51.5   43.6   34.1   28.7                 4.6       5.8        1.2       -0.1
Other primary              19.2   13.4    5.0    4.9    4.4    4.3                -5.4      -1.9       12.7        5.1
Mrufactures               56.3   45.7   43.5   51.5   61.5   67.0                  6.4       14.1      17.6        8.1
Inports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                 13.1      11.5        5.5       3.9
Food                       21.2   12.3   11.2   11.3   10.1    6.3                 0.6      11.9        2.6       -5.3
Petroleum                   3.9   11.1   19.0   11.7   22.7   30.6                29.2      10.9        9.7        8.6
Machinery and Equipmnt    30.1   31.9   25.2   25.9   17.4   12.8                 13.5       8.7       -1.2      -1.0
Others                     44.8   44.7   44.6   51.1   49.8   50C.3               10.6       13.5       7.6       4.8
Siam of Trade with        S9are of Trade with          Sare of Trade with           Share of Trade with
Industrial Comtries (%)    Developing Countries W      Oil Enpoters (          Centrally Plamied Coantries (M)
197     1975    1980       1970 -     75    ____        _     L375   ____           1970   1975   1980
DflECbIN OF TR"
Expxorts           70.8    60.1    68.7         4.9    21.7    25,,4      13.9   11.1    4.8            9.4    6.1    0.4
Imports            85.9    79.5    81.8         7.1    10.9      7,7       0.7    6.3    7.5            6.3    3.1    3.0
1/ Constant price data at 1980 prices.
2/ Increase in refinirg capacity.
lENA CP 2C
My 1984



-    27    -
AN= I
Pe 6 of 6
MIAII CY 1   aWIL  AND Dg15
s6Llm     B    cat eo   pates
Po-lation  6.5 million (m198Sg
QiP pw C4pit:. S1,42D (1981
1971 1976 9                         ]961 S82 11 9 1991
MIAIKZ CFJA
Net exqprts of goods & suvicas            -57.4  -417.0   -356.0   -472.6  --684.6  -718.4          -710.5  -938.9 -1,028.5  -1,350.0
Eqxxrts of god   service               469.4  1,479.5  3,137.5  3,912.3  3,948.4 3,338.9         3,256.0  4,352.6  6,023.9  11,107.4
lpts of gods & sevice                   526.8  1,896.5  3,493.5  4,384.9  4,633.0 4,057.3        3,966.5  5,291.5  7,052.4  12,242.4
Net traifers 1/                           52.0      52.7     61.0   IDO.0      38.5    25.4           29.4     32.4    24.3      24.0
Cunrmt  rzi bhlat                         -5.4  -364.3  -295.0  -372.6  -646.1  -693.0              -681.0  -906.5 -1,04.2  -1,111.0
Direct privrte iesnt                      27.6    102.6    50.9    236.0    367.2   338.6            242.5    350.0   400.0    500.0
LT lomm (net                               55.3    167.8    479.3    322.8    282.7   354.4          4C0.7    669.3   773.4     871.0
official                                 59.2    130.     190.6    272.7    249.8   351.8          370.2    422.6   465.1    659.6
Private                                  -3.9     37.4    288.7     50.1     32.9     2.6           30.5    246.7   308.3     211.4
Other catal                                13.7    55.2   -111.3    121.3    101.9      -             -        -        -         -
e in reses                               -91.2      38.7   -123.9   -64.9   -105.7      -             37.8   -112.8  -169.2    -260.0
Intwmtimal reewves                        114.8    304.5    415.5   455.7    458.2   478.5          440.7
Reaves as umths of i,xtts                  2.6      2.2       1.6      1.4      1.4     1.4            1.3
kAbl 2/
i9n     1976     1979     1990     1981     1982
Official grants                            35.5    50.2     50.7    41.5      20.3     25.4
Gross disbursecents of K4T loosm          105.2   229.5    628.8    533.9    585.1   699.7
Coessional                                61.0   104.0    139.5    216.3    236.3    329.2
Bilateral                                52.8    95.1    13.7    196.2    230.3    230.0
MA                                       4.8     8.9      0.2       1.0      1.1      0.5
Other multilateral                       3.4      0.0      0.6     19.1      4.9     98.7
No-rcancessionsl                          44.2   125.5    489.3    317.6    348.8    370.5
Private                                 28.8    60.1    370.7    188.4    199.8    226.9
Official expot credits                   3.2      9.9     49.5     55.5    47.0      37.4
IND                                      12.2    25.3     55.4     51.1    69.4      83.4
Other multilateral                        -      30.2     13.7     22.6     32.6     22.8
EQr11RAL DEB
Debt Oitstatdige and Disbursed           619.5  1,166.5  2,981.8  3,172.5  3,171.0  3,525.3
Official                               440.0   971.9  1,823.0  2,017.6  2,133.9  2,485.6
18RD                                   39.3   127.9    232.0    269.0    319.5    379.8
IA                                     21.1    64.1     67.3     67.9     67.5     67.4
Other                                 379.6   779.9  1,523.7  1,680.7  1,746.9  2,038.4
Private                                 179.5   194.6  1, 158.8  1,154.9  1,037.1  1,039.7
Undisbwsed debt                          352.5  1,110.8  1,738.2  1,803.5  1,673.5  1,698.0
DEOr S&EVICE
Total debt service payanits               69.8    98.6    311.8    426.6    506.8    553.4
Interest                                 19.9    36.9    162.2    215.5    204.4    208.0
Payments as Z exports                     14.9     6.7      9.9      10.9     12.8     16.6
Payments as 1 CM                           4.1      2.2      4.3      4.9      6.1      7.0
Average interest rate of new Loans (2)     4.9      5.4      7.1      6.9      8.3      6.8
Official                                 4.6      4.3      5.6      5.9      6.9      -
Private                                  6.1      7.9      9.8     10.5     12.7      -
Average maturity of rew loans (years)      23.3    16.6     15.8     17.2     15.4     16.9
Official                                 26.2    20.4     19.4     19.4     18.2      -
Private                                  13.8     8.6      9.2      9.2      5.8      -
As Z of Debt Oatstax,ixg
at &hl of Meat Pecent
Year (1981)
DEBT S118E11J
Yaturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
AmDrtization due within 5 years                               37.7
Amortization due within 10 years                               65.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding (W)
Interest due witnin first year                                 4.3
1/ Including grants.
2/ Prelimiiway estimstes for 1982.
E4A CP 2C
May 1984



- 28 -
PV 1 of 2
1IC a21  or 81   mm OPR D  IN alum
A. SrATEUa OF BANK TIDE AND Mk aID    (As of Mlch 31, 1984)
$ mHillion
Loai w                                                                                     Atlt (Lms
Credit                                                                             C_lnc           _i_)_
tizber    Year         8 rroww                        Pna                                    IM      Ukdisbursd
Fcrty Loans aud Credits Fully Disbured                                              366.89  75.2
1188      1975      Reublic of lxnisia           Second Hi#mys                       28.00               7.95
1431      1977      Republic of Tunisia          IrriptiaL Develntomit               42.00               5.34
1I45      1977      SYEE.                        Fourth IWter Supply                 21.00               2.60
1601      1978      Republic of Taiia            Rural Roads (Third Higbmnya)        32.00              19.55
1675      1979      Repblic of nAiisia           Secrd Urban Sewerge                 26.50              15.65
1705      1979      Republic of Tunisia          Second Urban Iaw1lqmt               19.00              13.06
1746      1979      Repiblic of TUniia           Secrnd Fisheries                    28.50              19.80
1796      1980      Republic of Tuaisia          Southern Irrigation                 25.00              19.64
1797      1980      Office des Ports Natiaac   Third Port                           42.50               12.60
1841      1980      Repiilic of Tunisia         Fourt Higwmys                        36.50              31.23
1864      1980      SocidtI Tunisiere de
1'Electricitf et du Gaz     Secoad Nabzal Gas Pipeline          37.00              18.91
1AR5      1980      Banque Nationale de Tonisie  Third Agricultural Credit           30.00              20.73
161       1981      Republic of Tunisia         Fourth Ederation                     26.00              23.88
1969      1981      Republic of Tunisia          Sas1-Scale trdustry Developmd:     30.00              28.33
1997      1981      Republic of Tunisia         Northst Rural Deve1ont               24.00              19.22
2003      1981      Socie4 Tehnisieme de
l'Eleotricitd et dzu Gaz    Third Poww                          41.50              33.55
2005      1981      Republic of Tunisia          Haalth and Popul.tion               12.50              11.53
2012      1981      Republic of Tunisia          Textile PAbabilitatixn              18.60               4.49
2052      1981      Republic of Tumisia          Grain Distribution and Strage       42.00              41.23
21D8      1982      Republic of Tunisia          Fifth Ri*sy (Rural Roads)           35.50              34.98
2113      1982      H=                           Electrical and ?kchanical Ihsrl:ries 30.50             20.56
2134      1982      SOW3C                        Sixth water Supply                  30.50              20.90
2157      1982      Republic of Tunisia          Irrigation Developint               22.00              21.26
2197      1982      Republic of Tunisia          Technical Asaistance                 4.50               4.20
2223      1983      Republic of Tunisia          Urban Dnelopment III                25.00              24.63
2230      1983      Republic of Tunisia         FEdcation V                          27.00              26.60
2234      1983      Republic of Tunisia          Central Tunisia Irrigation          16.50              16.17
2255 a/   1983      Republic of Tunisia          Urban Sewrage III                   34.00              34.00
2289 al   1983      Republic of Tunisia          Sfax Flood Pzetection               25.00              25.00
2301 '/   1983      Republic of Tunisia          Indistry (IV) Foimry                16.80              16.80
2346 a/   1984      Republic of Tunisia          Mining Tedmical Assiscan:e          13.40              13.40
2386 a/   1984      Republic of Tunisia          Seventh Water Supply                50.00              50.00
TOTAL                                                       1,260.19  75.2
Of tLich has been repaid                                      158.86   8.1
Total am outstandirg                                        1,101.33  67.1
Amsuntc Sold                       14.3:3
of which has been repaid          14.33                    1,101.33  67.1
Total now held by Bank and mA, b/
Total Urvdisbursed                                                               657.82
a/  Not yet effective
b/  Prior to exhange rate adjustant
The status of the projects listed in Part A is describel in a separate zeprt
on all Bnk/IA financed pojects in execution, whidi is updated twice yearly sad
circulated to the Fxecutive Directors on April 30      October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as March 31, 1984)
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                      Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                    Fertilizers             2.0    1.5       3.5
1966     Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)                Dev. Finance Co.        8.0    2.2      10.2
1970     Societ6 Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Societe Touristique            Tourism                 1.6    0.3       1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975     Societe d'Etudes et            Tourism                 2.5    0.6       3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques           Chemicals                      0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                           Dev. Finance Co.               1.2       1.2
Total Gross Cornimitments                            14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                  11.4    1.8       13.2
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                 2.7    5.8       8.5
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                     0.0    0.0       0.0
'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-  30  -                         Annex III
Page i of 2
TUNI:SIA
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country               11 months (January-November 1983)
to prepare the project:
(b)  The agencies which prepared             Highway Department (DGPC) of the
the project:                           Ministry of Public Works and Regional
Transport Company of Sfax (SORETRAS),
with consultant assistance
(c)  Project first presented to the          October 1982
Bank and date of first Bank mission
to consider the project:
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal                  October and December 1983
mission:
(e)  Negotiations completed;                April. 1984
(f)  Planned date of loan                    Decenmber 1984
effectiveness:
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.             Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and SORETRAS Cpara. 51);
(b) Approval of a sector training program proposal and specific
plan of training activities for 1985, and assignment of a
training administrator and appointment of a training expert
(para. 57); and
(c) Payment by the Government t:o SORETRAS of compensation for
social tariffs for the period January 1 - September 30, 1984
(para. 60).



-  31  -                  Annex III
Page 1 of 2
2.            Other Special Conditions
(a) Required cofinancing for the training and technical
assistance component would be available by March 31, 1985 or the
Government would, by that date, provide the funds from other
sources (including, if need be, its own resources) (para. 51);
(b) An Interministerial Coordination Committee for Urban
Transport and its technical unit in the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MOTC) would be maintained (para. 56);
(c) The MOTC would prepare and present the results of studies
on productivity, fares and finances of regional transport
companies and on involving the private sector in the provision
of urban transport services to the Bank for review by September 1
and June 30, 1985, respectively, and implement the agreed
program in each area according to a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 58);
(d) SORETRAS and the Government would take all necessary action
to implement an agreed financial action plan for SORETRAS, and
SORETRAS would (i) maintain a working ratio of no more than
0.70:1 on its urban passenger services after 1988; and
(ii) submit to the Bank for review by September 30 of each year
its investment plan and financial projections for the next five
years (para. 60); and
(e) The Municipality of Tunis would prepare and present to the
Government and the Bank for approval a draft parking management
plan by May 1, 1985, including measures concerning extension of
the parking meter program and realignment of parking meter
rates, and implement the agreed plan according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 61).



I



;                           /      \     ra °9</98               l'               \                                                        TUNISIA
rARIAN                                                                                                             ATER TUNIS
,   r           X                              T~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~unis Airport  \
Tuni AirortLOCATION OF PRIMARY ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
E  \ \\ts     /D:  -
PROJECT.
Roads
t Interchanges
4f                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Viaduct
A                                                                       \\ o/ .. - s ', -> /F-- - - -'' Sub-Com,ponents
EZ   9 A H U -  Xt.  /   6Y    B X JY / R A                          A.    Interchange GP8/GP9/X2
\:L     VoaieX2,betweenGP9andGP10
Oak,- )un/sl                                        ",\3~~~~~~~~~~ InterchIange on Voie Z4 at Palais des
Congres
A )>,  :   t   t2/   Cp   tYake  < GOULETTE  Viaduct on Avenue de a Rgpublique
GP                                                                                                                  El~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (along voieZ4)over Avenue Bourguiba and
Metro L6ger de Tunis.
TUNIS  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                                Voie Z4, from Rue d'ltalie to Fi6n6trante
_______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~cSud
DI    Voie Z4, from 1`4n6trante Sud to Megrine
intercomomunaie Sud, between Z4 and
D2 GPI
Pi6n6trante Sud, between Z 4 and
Sortie Sud
M6tro Luger deTunis(Phasel)
Es 5 P, 6 k h c- t                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Roads  u ) Tun-
R Sedjous;   t   9 s   \*ADES  0   Planned Road|s
0                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Built-up Areais  .636
,i]  O /ISalt Lake
U N i s A
International Boundaries    ALGERIA)
E> h,: -  - -         .\ . .\                                                                       (    -
_15°_e   ---'=-     \           \          ' \!'~~ BN      \\N!/:
>    fXlEn 71_ ./S.X.-9-  . -   - -  \   \@   /  \   \s                   \ >  g                O        1       2       3       4       4t-3 ,+        t           3k~~~~~~~~~0  2 
zu   t   -  : \ / \ a / KILOMETERS z ,_ * . w-o~~OU                                                                                                                                  OD
na Fw, Cax ___ . _ _ \ , ,,a t ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LRY 






