OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 2429 TUN
Project Agreement
(Second Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE REGIONALE DE TRANSPORTS DE SFAX
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2429 TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  LL4U4*    ag              , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SOCIETE REGIONALE DE TRANSPORTS DE
SFAX (hereinafter called SORETRAS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three
million dollars ($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SORETRAS
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SORETRAS, part of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to SORETRAS on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SORETRAS, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherver used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section  2.01. SORETRAS declares    its commitment to    the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B (1) through
(3) of the Project, described in said Schedule, with due


﻿- 2 -
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,   financial, engineering   and   public  transport
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SORETRAS in the carry-
ing out of Part B (3) of the Project, SORETRAS shall employ
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist SORETRAS in the carrying out of
Part B (1) and (2) of the Project, SORETRAS shall employ
engineering  and   construction   supervision  consultants   whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SORETRAS undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower   against   hazards   incident    to   the  acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by SORETRAS to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) SORETRAS shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to Lt by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section  2.05. (a) SORETRAS shall furnish      to the   Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part B (1) through (3) of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-3-
(b) SORETRAS: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part B (1) through
(3) of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part B (1) and
(2) of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank: (A) by April 30, August 31 and
December 31 of each year a Project progress report concerning
Part B (1) through (3) of the Project in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request; and (B) at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Part B (1) through (3) of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SORETRAS
and the Bank, SORETRAS shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of Part B
(1) through (3) of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by SORETRAS and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) SORETRAS shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of SORETRAS and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. SORETRAS shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, SORETRAS shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.


﻿Section 2.07. SORETRAS shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in Part B
(1) and (2) of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) SORETRAS shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) SORETRAS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by SORETRAS of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SORETRAS
Section 3.01. SORETRAS shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public transport practices tinder the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SORETRAS shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance. with sound engineering,
financial and public transport practices.
Section 3.03. SORETRAS shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SORETRAS shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. SORETRAS shall:
(a) monitor its operations on the basis of a system of key
technical and financial indicators and targets acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank by April 30 of each year, starting
in 1985 until the completion of the Project, a report showing, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasnnably request, the results of
its operations in terms of said inaicators and targets; and
(c) shall promptly take all such remedial action as the
Bank may reasonably request to ensure that the targets referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section are met.
Section 3.06. SORETRAS shall not, without the prior approval
of the Bank, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any of its pro-
perties or assets required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertakings.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SORETRAS shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. For the purpose of computing its income and
expenditures from its freight and passenger services, SORETRAS
shall, by January 31, 1985, establish and thereafter maintain
separate internal non-statutory income statements and state-
ments of sources and applications of funds for its freight and
passenger services.
Section 4.03. SORETRAS shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenditures and related
statements including the statements referred to in Section 4.02
of this Agreement) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than: (i) six months after the end of each such


﻿year copies of its unaudited financial statements for such year;
and (ii) nine months after the end of each such year certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.04. SORETRAS shall submit to the Bank for its
review by September 30 of each year, starting in 1984, an invest-
ment plan and financial projections for the next five years, of
such scope and in such detail as shall be satLsfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.05. SORETRAS shall take all action required on its
part to implement a financial action plan (including a timetable
for implementation) for SORETRAS' operations.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SORETRAS shall for its urban passenger service operations main-
tain at all times after December 31, 1988, a ratio of direct
operating expenses to total receipts of not more than 0.70 to 1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "total receipts" means all revenues relating
to urban passenger service operations including revenues from bus
fares (net of taxes) and compensation for social tariffs, for the
last twelve months.
(b) The term "direct operating expenses" means expenditures
incurred over the last twelve months for salaries, fuel, parts
and other expenses related to urban passenger service operations,
but excluding depreciation of assets related to urban passenger
service operations and interest and other charges on debt related
to urban passenger service operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SORETRAS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify SORETRAS thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT);
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA); or
64145 (WUI).
For SORETRAS:
3 Rue Aziza Othmana
3000 Sfax (Bab Bhar)
Republic of Tunisia
Cable Address:                     Telex:
SOTRAS                            40890.
Sfax


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SORETRAS may be taken or executed by its
President Director General or such other person or persons as its
President Director General shall designate in writing, and
SORETRAS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
persono
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ k),
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE REGIONALE DE TRANSPORTS DE SFAX
By <
Auth rized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  <      -day of       ,198 I.
TOR SECRETARY


