DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use                FILE  CO-PY
Report No. 89a-GA
APPRAISAL OF
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GABON
April 10, 1973
Western Africa Projects Department
Public Utilities Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted I
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  CFAF Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00        =  CFAF 230
CFAF 1.00      .  US$0.0043h7
CFAF 1 million =  US$4,9347
FISCAL YEAR s Jan. 1 - De. 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter;(mm)                    . 0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (mi)                         a 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     a 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)                  . 10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 hectare (ha)                       . 10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)             = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                          = 0.264US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (i3)                   - 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)         _ 811 acre feet (ac-ft)
1 cubic meter per
second (m3/sec)                - 31.5 million cubic meters per year
or 22.8 million US gallons per day (mgd)
or 35.t cubic feet per second (cusecs)
liters per capita per day (1/cd)
a - pipe diameter in mm
PRINCIPAL ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BGD          - Banque Gabonaise de Developpement (Gabonese Development Bank)
BRGM         - Bureau de Recherches G6ologiques et Minieres, France
CCCE         - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, Paris
EdF          - Electricit6 de France
PAC          - Fonds dtAide et de Cooperation
FED          - Fonds Europ6en de DeveloQDSlent (European Development Fund)
SEEG         - Societ6 d'Energie et d'Eau de Gabon
SEURECA      - Societ6 dtEtudes pour ltUrbanisme, 1tEquipement et les
Canalisations, Paris
WSDL         - Water Supply Division Libreville



GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SThiRY ..Y.. . ... i-
1.   INTRODUCTION .       .........................................  1
2.   THE ECONOMYT AND THE SECTOR ..........................          3
A.   Economic Background .......         .....................  3
B.   Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Organization             4
C.   Technical Characteristics of the Sector .... ....         4
3.   THIE PROJECT AND THE LOAN ...................                   6
A.   Description of the Project .....         ................  6
B.   Cost Estimates .................................          7
C.   Construction Schedule . ..........................        8
D.   Amount of Proposed Loan ........................          8.
F. Procurement.   ................                             8
F. Disbursement.                                               9
C.  Supervision of the Project .9
H. Environmental Aspects.                                      9
I. Urban Development Aspects .10
J.   Disposition of Surplus from Bank Loan .10
4. JUSTIFICATION .11
A. Demand .11
B.   Selection of Proposed Project .11
C. Economic Return.                                           12
T.   Social Aspects and Tariff Structure .12
5.   TIE BORROWTER AND TIE BENEFICIARY .15
A.   Structure and Functions of SEEG .15
B. Management and Staffing .16
C. Accounting System .16
D. Audit .17
E. The Concession System .17
6. FINANCES .21
A. General ..........                                         21
B.   Water Supply Division Libreville ....         ......     21



Table of Contents - Continued
Page No.
Past Record and Present Situation ....       .........    21
Financing Plan and Loan Repayment ....       .........    2.1
Tariffs .    .......................................    23
Future Finances ........      .......................   24
C.   Consolidated Finances of Power and Water
Operations in Gabon .....       .................  24
Past Record and Present Situation ....       .........  24
Financing Plans ...................I............    24
Tariffs ..........      .............................   25
Future Finances .......       .........................  25
D.   Financial Covenants ......        .....................  25
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECDMMENnATION          .     .        29
This report is based on findings of a Bank appraisal mission in May/June 1972,
composed of 14essrs. R.C. Prevost and W.M. Schaefer, and an updating mission
in December 1972 by MIessrs. J.C. Rietveld, W.M. Schaefer and R.W. Bates.



ANINEXES
1.  General Data on the Power Sector in Gabon
2. Existing Water Supply Facilities in Libreville and General Data
on Water Supply in Gabon
3.  Technical Details of the Project
4.  Project Cost Estimates
5.  Cumulative Quarterly Disbursements
6.  Water Consumption Statistics and Forecast
7.  Water Tariffs in Libreville
8.  Rate of Return Calculations and Sensitivity Analysis
9.  Past Finances and Assumptions for Financial Projections
10.  Water Supply Division Libreville, Income Statements
11.    "     "        "           "      Cash Flow Statements
12.    "                                 Debt Schedule
13.  Power and Water Operations in Gabon, Consolidated Income Statements
14.    "    "    "        "      "          Consolidated Balance Sheets
15.    '   "                      "    "    Consolidated Cash Flow Statements
16.    "    "    "t               "    "    Consolidated Debt Schedule
17.  SEEG's Cashl Flow Return and Debt Service Ratio
CHARS
1. Construction Schedule - 6974 (3R)
2.  Past and Projected Water Production and Consumption - 6954 (6R)
3. SEEG's Organization Chart - 6959 (2R)
MAPS
1. Libreville Area with Water Sources.- IBRD 10090
2. Libreville Distribution System - IBRD 10091






GABON
APPRAISAL OF THE LIBREVILLE
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This report anpraises a US$20 million water supply project to
extend existing facilities in Libreville which are insufficient to meet
the city's demand, expected to grow over the next five years at an average
annual rate of more than 12%. Libreville's population of about 90,000 is
growing at about 7% annually.  With the addition of a further treatment plant
and distribution extensions which would be required by 1979, but not financed
under the proposed project, the whole scheme would satisfy demand at least
up to 1983.  Water shortages are however expected during implementation of
the proposed project.
ii.       The project would include a river diversion scheme to supplement
the insufficient drought flow of the existing source; extension of a treat-
nient plant from 14,000 m3/day to 34,000 m3/day and associated raw-water and
clear-water pumping stations; a 40 kn, 0600 mm pipeline to bring treated
river water to Libreville; distribution extensions; and consulting services.
All major contracts would be subject to international competitive bidding
according to Bank guidelines; domestic preferences of 15% will be applied to
local products.
iii.      Under the project, the distribution of potable water would be
extended to the low-income population, the majority of whom are at present
served poorly or not at all. Additional standpipes, together with changes
in the tariff structure, would encourage greater use of potable water by
the low-income population.
ivT.      The project would be financed by the  Bank with US$9.5 million,
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) with 'US$4.3 million,
the Government with US$5.2 million, and US$0.9 million from internal cash
generation. The Bank's share is lower than the estimated direct foreign
currency costs of the project, US$11.4 million.
v.        Although the Municipality of Libreville would be the owner of
the project facilities, Societe d'Energie et d'Eau du Gabon (SEEG) would
be the borrower. SEEG has the monopoly of managing Gabon's public water
and power supplies under French-type concession agreements, and levies its
own rates on power and water consumption to maintain the existing installa-
tions. The Government or local authorities normally own the installations
antd levy surcharges (to cover canital costs for new investments) which are
collected by SEEG, together with its own revenues. SEEG retains the net
income from its own revenues, which theoretically should cover all its costs



- ii -
plus a reasonable profit margin. SEEG pays no fee for the installations
provided by the concession grantor. On termination of the concession, SEEG
has to hand over to the concession grantor in good condition all installations
originally received plus those constructed over the concession period, but
receives an indemnity for: (i) that part of the investments financed by SEEG
which it could not recover through the concession amortization (caducite),
and (ii) on early termination, all anticipated net income until normal ter-
mination.
vi.       SEEG will, with the assistance of consultants, supervise execution
of the project, and will also operate the project and administer the debt
service payments. SEEG is sufficiently well organized and managed to carry
out these functions.
vii.      In accordance with the concession system, the accounts for power
and water facilities and operations in Gabon are separated between SEEG and
the concession grantor. They have had to be consolidated for the purpose of
this report to demonstrate the true revenues, costs and requirements of tthe
operations. Such consolidated financial statements have been prepared and
analysed for: (i) the water supply operations in Libreville _/, and (ii) the
power and water operations in Gabon.
viii.     As a result of the concession system which in Gabon involves SEEG,
the Government, and the Libreville Municipality, the Bank had to reach agree-
ment on many issues with all three parties concerned, and these are reflected
in separate documents: the Loan Agreement with SEEG, the Guarantee Agreement
with the Government, and the Libreville Agreement with the Municipality. The
financial covenants for the proposed Loan are particularly complex since they
had to: (i) cover both the water supply operations in Libreville, and SEEG's
power and water operations in Gabon; and (ii) take into account the division
of responsibilities between the concession grantor and the concessionaire.
Therefore, in addition to the normal covenants on return, debt limitation,
dividend distribution, consultation on investment programs, and financing
plans, the following covenants have been agreed to: SEEG would: (i) continue
to administer the Municipal surcharge proceeds for project debt service, (ii)
assist from its own resources in financing of the project and payment of the
project debt service, which participation would be an interest-free loan to
the Municipality, and (iii) make available the cash generated by its water
supply operations ir. Libreville for future investments in the city's water
supply system.
ix.       The financial situation of the Water Supply Division Libreville
ihas improved in the past five years, and this trend is expected to continue
in the future. The financing plan of the project is satisfactory. Consoli-
dated finances of the power and water operations in Gabon show that sales
have doubled over the past five years. The investment plan for both sectors
1/   By consolidating SEEG's records for its Water Supply Division Libreville
and the related records of the concession grantor.



- iii -
is ambitious, but- the reserve capacities remain reasonable. Financing still
has to be assured for most of the future investments. SEEG's debt service
ratio in 1973 would be 1.4 which, although 16w, is acceptable.
x.        The average water tariff in Libreville of CFAF 77/mr  (US$1.27/1,000
US gal.) was raised in March 1973 to CFAF 89/m3 (US$1.46/1,000 US gal.); this
increase was in anticipation of the need to generate sufficient funds for ex-
pected debt service of project loans and for future expansions. The average
tariff will be raised to about CFAF 110/0  (US$1.81/1,000 US gal.) in 1976.
Although high, this level is still comparable with other French-speaking
countries in West Africa. However, the tariff for small consumers has been
lowered to CFAF 50/m3 (US$0.82/1,000 US gal.) and potable water will be made
more accessible to low-income classes of the population following introduc-
ticn of easier payment terms for the construction cost of small-diameter ser-
vice connections, and after an increase in the number of standpipes from about
40. to 100. Generally, water service to low-income consumers as a result of
the project is expected to be better than in other West African countries.
xi.       The economic rate of return on the project is at least 10%. Health
and other important social benefits are expected to result from the proposed
measures to improve water distribution, especially to the low-income popula-
ticon; these benefits would be substantial, and if they could be quantified,
wotlId markedly improve the economic return.
xii.      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$9.5 million to SEEG,
guaranteed by the Government of Gabon, for a term of 25 years, including a
four-year grace period.






GABON
APPRAISAL OF THE LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Gabon has requested Bank Group assistance to
help finance a US$20 million project designed to relieve an impending water
shortage in the capital city of Libreville, and to improve and extend its
water supply system.
1.02      In order to cope with the rapid increase of water demand in
Libreville, the Societe d'Energie et d'Eau du Cabon (SEEC) -- the agency
responsible for supplying water and power in Gabon -- initiated comprehen-
sive studies in 1968, and started then to seek financing for new water
supply projects. Contracts were signed as follows:
(i)  with the Office de la Rechercne Scientifique et Technique
Outre-Mer (ORSTOM, France) for a systematic hydrological
survey of the Libreville area to determine sources to
satisfy water demand up to the year 2000;
(ii)  with the Bureau de Recherches Geologioues et Minieres
(BRGM, France) for a groundwater study in the Libreville
area: and
(iii)  with Electricite de France (EdF) for preliminary studies
for the dams included in the possible surface water schemes.
In 1970, the Societe d'Etudes pour l'Urbanisme, l'Equipement et les Cana-
lisations (SEURF`CA, France) prepared a comprehensive report which recommended
successive construction schemes, and prepared a detailed feasibility study
including extension of the distribution system for the first phase; in addi-
tion, SEnG carried out pum.ping tests where BP.C,M had indicated a possible
groundwater source. These studies were financed by a grant of CrAF 100 mil-
lion (US$400,0oo) from the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC, France), and
formed the basis for design of a project that was expected to cost approxi-
mately US$24 million. At the Government's request, a Bank Group pre-
appraisal mission visited Libreville in January/Februarv 1971 and recommended
early implementation of a reduced scheme, with a modified construction
schedule, to be completed in 1975.
1.03      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first lending
operation for ptublic utilities in Gabon, and would be financed jointly with
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economiquie (CCCE1, France). CCCE is also
a stockholder of SEEG, and currently finances part of the annual investment
programs of that agency for power and water development in Gabon. The Gov-
ernment has agreed to make a substantial contribution towards financing the
project, and SEEG would make funds available from its own resources.



2 -
1.04      This report Is based on information provided by SEEG, on the reports
of the consultants ORSTOM, EdF, BRGM, and SEURECA, and on the findings of
an appraisal mission in May/June 1972 by Messrs. R.C. Prevost (Water Engineer)
and W.M. Schaefer (Financial Analyst), and an updating mission in December
1972 composed of Messrs. J.C. Rietveld (Water Engineer), W.M. Schaefer, and
R. Bates (Economist), assisted during the part of the visit by Messrs. R.R.
Buehler (Lawyer), I. Erim (Loan Officer), R. Ribi (Power Engineer) and R.C.
Prevost, all of the Bank.



-3-
2.  THE EGONOMY AND THr, SECTOR
A.  Economic Background
2.01      Most of Gabon's land area -- 267,000 km , about half the size of
France -- is covered with dense equatorial rain forests. The country's
growth is based primarily on the otltput of its extractive export industries,
for example, timber, manganese, oil, and uranium.  As a consequence of the
exploitation of these resources, by mainly foreign private capital, per
capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was about US$800 in 1971, the third
highest in Africa after Libya and South Africa. Except for transport links
to the areas producing these products, Gabon's infrastructure in roads and
in supply of urban water and power are still at an early stage of develop-
ment.
2 02      The country has only about 500,000 inliabitants who are settled
mainly in the two major towns, Libreville (90,000) and Port-Gentil (45,000),
anid in townships and villages along the many waterways and near mining
centers. Average population growth is only 1% annually, a low rate explained
by the prevalence of endemic diseases -- malaria and waterborne afflictions,
particularly intestinal parasitism -- and of other medical factors. Infant
mortality is exceptionally high (230 deaths per 1,000 live births), with
males primarilv affected.
2.03      Between 1960 and 1970, the number of people living in settlements
of more than 2,000 inhabitants rose from 74,00( to an estimated 160,000.  The
population of Libreville is increasing at an average annual rate of 7%4 or
probably even higher; the city absorbs annually about 1%,' of the entire popu-
Iation of Gahon. In 1960/61, the urban natural population growth rate was
double the national average; nevertheless, the urban centers are few and
still relatively small.
2.04      By contrast, agriculture faces serious obstacles, and development
possibilities for the foreseeable future are rather limited. Gabonese soils
have generallv lowj productivity in the tropical rain forest areas. Tradi-
tional techniques of cultivation inhibit change in what is still basically
subsistence crop production.  In general, the prospects for modern agricul-
ture are hindered by the demand for labor in the booming modern sector where
regular wages can be earned.
2.05      The rise in modern sector employment has drawn to the cities more
than half of the potential active male labor force, and has been accompanied
by large inequalities in income distribution. The average annual African
income in the modern sector was about US$1,100 per worker in 1968 compared
with an estimated 1JS$160 to US$200 in one of the rTAore favored rural districts.
Agricultural output has stagnated as young people sought job opportunities in
the cities. The higher salaries and other attractions of the public service
have distorted the labor market, escalated wages faster than productivity, and
hindered the Cabonization of private enterprises which have difficulties find-
ing adequate numbers of trained local staff. The Government agreed that, for



-4-
the Droposed project, it will permit temporary employment of non-Gabonese
African workers, skilled and unskilled,, to the extent local labor is not
available.
2.06      Civen the present and foreseeable relationship in Gabon between
labor and capital, it is clear that the development strategy will have to
emphasize activities which produce relatively high value added per worker
in contrast to more labor intensive technolooies more appropriate elsewhere,
and that their activities will increasingly be concentrated in urban areas,
particularly in Libreville. Rural development will be necessary to improve
the living standards of the rural population. However, in the foreseeable
future, the exodus to cities is likely to create urban development pressures
that would override the rural development problem, and must be tackled with
priority. Vnder these circumstances, urban infrastructure investments such
as the proposed water supply project, make a direct contribution to the
productivity of urban areas by supporting the growth of production there.
Further, because of the shortage of labor, the health benefits from potable
water will increase the amount of effective manpower available, and will
thlus contribute to growth.
2.07      Primary education is compulsory in Cabon, and enrollment in second-
ary and technical schools has been increasing. Libreville University started
engineering training in 1970. All enterprises in Gabon are now required to
open their own technical training centers, or pay a training tax. SEEC, has
chosen the former alternative, so that over the long-term there should be no
shortage of trained personnel for junior staff positions in clerical and
technical areas.
3.   Water Supply and Sewerage Sector _ rganization
2.08      The concessionaire SEEC, a mixed Covernment/private company,
has the monoooly of the water and power 1/ supply sector in Gabon (see para.
5.n4).  It servels the two main cities and eleven secondary centers, of which
three do not vet have water supply installations.  The concession grantors
are the NMunicipalities or, in the absence of a municipal administration,
the Covernment itself.  Responsibility for the construction and maintenance
of drainace and sewerage systems rests with the same authorities.
C.   Technical Characteristics of the Sector (see Annex 2)
2.;)      Cabon has large water resources, a result of its abundant rainfall
(average of 2.5 - 3 m per year) and onlv a short dry season. flowever, Libre-
viyle and Port-Gentil are located on a peninsula and on an island respectively,
and abundant water supplies for these cities are only found inland.
Water SuRpy
2.10      Libreville's first water supply system was built in 1935, and its
capacitv has almost quadrtupled since then to about 14,000 m-/day.  Water
1/   Information on the power sector is given in Annex 1.



-5-
consumption has increased over the last four years by about 21% p.a., and in
1971 production and consumption reached an average of 12,800 m3/day and 9,700
m3/dav respectively. Unaccounted-for water in the distribution system was
13% during January-February 1972, which indicates that the system is in
reasonably good order. Total water losses in production, transmiission and
distribution are about 25%, which compares favorably with similar water
supply systems in other countries, but leaves room for leakage detection and
prevention measures. All service connections, including public standpipes,
are metered.
2.11      The present distribution of water to the low-income population is
unsatisfactory. Only about one-fourth of Libreville's population is provided
with piped water. Moreover, statistics on water consumption show that half
of the households connected account for more than 80% of total residential
consumption. A mere 5% of the water brought to Libreville is available to
unconnected householders through public standpipes located mainly in areas
with some planned infrastructure (see green areas on Map IBRD 10091); the
squatter settlements (red areas on Map IBRD 10091) are practically not served,
and their inhabitants use rainwater and nearby streams.  The proposed project
is expected to substantially improve this unsatisfactory situation (paras.
4.10 to 4.14).
2.12      The second largest water distribution system at Port-Gentil is
supplied from wells on the island.  This supply is however limited, and in
the near future other more expensive sources will have to be tapped.
2.13      The nine secondary centers which SEEG supplies use surface sources.
These installations are difficult to supervise from Libreville, as they are
several hundred kilometers away and surface transport is difficult. SEEG has
to rely heavily on expatriate personnel in these centers.
Sewerage and Dralnage
2.14      The only organized drainage and sewerage system in the country is
limited to the center of Libreville; for the rest of the city, drainage is
by ditches and streams which flow into the sea. Libreville is spread over a
large area, and the scattered housing pattern makes it expensive to construct
the necessary urban infrastructure such as roads, water supply, drainage
and sewerage. The Government has requested UNDP to finance a 2 1/2-year pre-
invastment study for drainage and sewerage in Libreville. The study is ex-
pected to start in mid-1973, and will be carried out by the World Health
Organization (WHO).



-6-
3.  TEIE PROJECT AND THE LOAN
3.01      The project is designed to relieve a water shortage in the Libre-
-ville area expected to start by the end of 1973, and to make available ex-
panded water supply facilities to satisfy the city's demand up to about 1979.
An additional treatment plant and distribution extensions, which would be
required by 1979 but not financed under the project will enable full use of
project capacity by 1983.
A.   Description of the Project
3.02      The project will consist of the following principal elements (see
also Annex 3 and Maps IBRD 10090 and 10091):
(i)  a river diversion scheme, consisting of a weir, a pumping
station, a 4 km, 0500 mm raw water pipeline, and a power
transmission line. 1/ It would increase the dry weather
flow of the N'Zeme river at N'Toum, and ensure a minimum
flow of 60,000 m3/day by pumping water over the watershed
from the upper Assango (flowing south) to the N'Zeme (flow-
ing north);
(ii)  expansion of the existing raw-water and clear-water pumpincg
station, and of the water treatment plant on the N'Zeme
river at N'Toum, increasing the capacity from 14,000 m3/day
to 34,00) m3/cday (a furtlher expansion to 45,000 m3/day is
planned for 1979), and of a transformer station on the
high-voltafoe Kinguele 2/- Libreville power transmission
line: also included are two modest houses for SEEr personnel;
(iii)  a 40 kim, 0600 mm treated-i7ater pipeline paralleling the
existing 0450 mm pipeline between N'Tour and Libreville
to increase the transmission capacity to 45,000 m3/day;
(iv)  a storage reservoir of 10,000 m  capacity to supplerment
the twqo existing 1,500 m3 tanks at the head of the distri-
bution system in Libreville, and about 1"1 km of distribution
mains (0150 to 0700 mm) out of 27 km required to cover
demand up to 1930,
(v)  r,iiscellaneous minor distribution works (including small
distribution pipes) and standpipes, sufficient to iLmprove
water availability in low-income quarters of the city; and
1/   Although the pipeline has to be built for the final capacity, the pump-
ing station can be staged and the project includes a first stage to
match the capacity of the N'Toum treatment plant.
2/   A hydroelectric plant is located at Kinguele, 100 km east of Libreville.



- 7-
(vi)  consulting services for detailed engineering 1/, super-
vision of construction, and administration of the project.
B.   Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated cost of the project 2/ is given in Annex 4 and sum-
rmarized below:
% of
Item                      Million CFAF             Million US$         Total
Project
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
1.  Upper Assango Diversion
Scheme                       114     277      391      .5     1.2      1.7      9
2. N'Toum Facilities Expansion 147         357     504      .6     1.5      2.1     11
3.  Pipeline N'Toum-Libreville  310   1,174   1,484    1.4         5.1      6.5     32
4.  Distribution
Mains and Storage Reservoir 145       367      512      .6     1.6      2.2     11
5.  Miscellaneous                  39       90     129      .2       .4     0.6      3
Sub-Total Construction    1,288   2,265   3,020    3.3         9.8    13.1      66
6.  Consultant Services and
Project Supervision          126     294      420      .6     1.3      1.8      9
7.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical                135     315      450      .6     1.4      2.0     10
(b)  Price Escalation        272     408      680    1.2      1.8      3.0     15
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT           1        3,282   4,570    5.6    14.3    19.9    100
TO BE FINANCED BY:
1)  Proposed Bank Loan                                      -      9.5      9.5      48
2)  CCCE                                                    -      4.3      4.3      22
3)  Government                                             4.7       .5     5.2      26
4)  Municipality and SEEG                                  0.9      -        .9       4
Total                                                  5.6    14.3    19.9    100
1/   Although the FAC grant mentioned in para. 1.02 was intended to cover all
engineering up to preparation of tender documents, it was exhausted be-
fore detailed engineering started because its cost was underestimated.
The cost of detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents is
therefore included in the project cost estimates.
2/   In prices at end 1972 with US$ equivalents after the currency realignment
of February/March 1973.



-8-
3 .04     Cost estimates were prepared by SEEG and by its consultants, SEURECA.
These estimates take into account current cost data, estimated quantities and
unit prices for similar works carried out in Gabon, and recent manufacturers'
proposals for major equipment (pumping gear). Costs for civil engineering
works are comparatively high, a result of the active construction sector and
a lack of competition. Engineering-and project supervision have been assessed
at 10% of construction costs.
3.05      Physical contingencies range from 5% for pipe supply to 20% for the
raw-water pumping station (see Annex 4), and are considered sufficient to
absorb possible cost increases from unforeseen hydrological and geological
prohlems and basic bid prices that may be higher than expected. Price
contingencies are based on the expectation of average annual cost increases
of 10% locally and 6% foreign, continuing the trend shown in 1972.
C.   Construction Schedule
3.06      The construction schedule for the project is shown in Chart 1.  To
have the project operational in 1975, and in order to eliminate as soon as
possible the expected water shortages in Libreville, it is necessary that
the detailed engineering, preparation of bidding documents, and bidding itself
proceed without delay. The first 12.5 km of the 0600 mm pipeline from N'Toum
will be the first project element to be put into service, thus increasing
the transmission capacity of the N'Toum scheme and providing possibly partial
relief of the expected water shortage in Libreville in 1974. Completion of
the pipeline is scheduled for mid-1975, at the same time as the extension of
the N'Toum treatment plant and pumping stations. Construction of the Upper
Assango scheme, which is a less critical item (see Annex 3), would follow
construction of the other project elements. Extensions to the distribution
system and installation of public standpipes will be spread over the period
of project construction, so as not to increase consumption while supply is
not yet adequate.
D.   Amount of Proposed Loan
3.07      A Loan of US$9.5 million is proposed to help finance the cost of the
project, estimated at US$19.9 million (net of interest during construction).
The Loan represents 48% of the total cost of the project, and 66% of the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost of USS14.3 million (para. 3.03), of which
US$11.0 million are direct foreign exchange expenditures and the remaining
US$3.3 million represent imputed foreign costs.
E.   Procurement
3.08      Except for minor works (about 3% of total project cost), procurement
for all civil works and equipment supply contracts under the project will be
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines; CCCE as co-lender is in agreement with this procedure. 1/
1/   Similar procurement and disbursement arrangements have been successful
for Loan 604-CAM, the Cameroon Water Supply Project, now completed.



-9-
Domestic preference in the evaluation of bids will be given to local sup-
pliers in accordance with the usual provision of 15% or applicable customs
duties, whichever is lower: There are no UDEAC 1/ preferences applicable to
this project. It has been agreed with the Government that project items im-
ported would be exempt from the 32% duty, and that contractors would be ex-
empt from the 8% turnover tax and from other taxes on contracts and invoices.
F.   Disbursement
3.09      Since the Bank loan represents only 48% of total project cost, but
the foreign exchange component is estimated to be about 72% of that cost, it
is proposed for convenience to disburse on a pari passu basis, 48% on each
element, including engineering and project supervision (para. 3.10). The
CCCE loan and the Government contribution (which represent 22% and 26% re-
spectively of the total project cost) are also to be disbursed on a pari passu
basis. The remaining 4% would be covered from SEEG's own funds. The Govern-
ment would provide annual budgetary allocations over the project period, and
these would be disbursed by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement du Gabon
(CAAG) as required. Such disbursement would be in accordance with agreements
between the Government and CAAG, and this arrangement would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Loan. An estimated schedule of quarterly dis-
bursements from the Bank Loan is shown in Annex 5.
C.   Supervision of the Project
3.10      SEEG has, with the Bank's approval, requested SEURECA, the consult-
ants who carried out the feasibility study, to prepare the detailed engineer-
ing for the project. SEEG will undertake bid evaluation and supervision with
its own staff, assisted as necessary by SEURECA. This arrangement which
proved satisfactory for the previous stages of construction of the N'Toum
facilities, will help develop the capability of the local staff in engineer-
ing and construction techniques.  SEEG's cost for construction supervision,
to be documented by specific records and invoices for these services, will
therefore also be financed pari passu as noted in para. 3.09.
Hi.  Environmental Asnects
3.11      Adverse effects of the project on the environment will be minimal.
The diversion of water fron the Assango to the N'Zeme river is small, and
the areas downstream of these small rivers are only sparsely settled and
covered with tropical forest. The additional water distributed in Libreville
will not appreciably worsen the present sewerage situation, since population
density is low, and thus the water volume distributed is small in relation
to surface area.
1!   Similar procurement and disbursement arrangements have been successful
for Loan 604-CAM, the Cameroon Water Supply Project, now completed.
2/   UDEAC:  Union Douaniere des Etats de L'Afrique Centrale.



- 10 -
I.   Urban Development Aspects
3.12      The Government has agreed to execute as soon as possible an urban
development study for Libreville under Terms of Reference satisfactory to
the Bank. The results of this study should help provide for more orderly
growth of the city, and a more economic urban infrastructure (roads, power,
water, sewerage, and telephone).
J.   Disposition of Surplus from Bank Loan
3.13      Any surplus Loan fuinds after completion of the project are proposed
to be used for advancing some of the additional distribution system extensions
now scheduled for 1976-78. Also, it might be necessary to construct more
standpipes if the public does not react as favorably as expected to the in-
centives for obtaining house connections. Such additions would be undertaken
only with Bank approval; otherwise, surplus funds would be cancelled.



4. JUSTIFICATION
A.   Demand
4.01      The main purpose of the project is to meet increasing needs for
potable water in.Libreville, where it is expected that, starting in 1973, the
present water distribution and production facilities will not be able to meet
peak denand. Since the project will become operational only in 1979, there
will be a temporary water shortage between 1973-75, probably compounded bv
the efforts to extend water services in future to the poorly served low-income
population (para. 4.13).
4.02      Libreville's aggregate water demand has grown at around 21% p.a.'
on average over the past five years. SFHMO projects, a growth rate of 16% p.a.
during 1973, declining to 8% p.a. by 1978 (see Annex 6), due to a saturation
of demand.  An independent forecast carried out by the consultants SEURECA
gave about the same demand for 1980 as calculated bv SEE(.
4.03      Both the SEEC- and the SEURECA forecasts are based upon a simple
methodology, but in view of the considerations detailed in Annex 6, the
mission concluded that the longer-term trend of the forecasts, whilst conser-
vative, is for the present acceptable as a basis for project planning.  The
SEEC forecasts imply an estimated daily per capita consumption in 1980 of
166 liters for consumers served by household connections, compared with the
present figure of 177. This decline appears reasonable in view of the grow-
:Lng proportion of lower-income groups with house connections to be brought
about by the easier payment terms for connection charges and the reduced
tariff for the first 5 m3 of water consumption proposed in paras. 4.11 and 4.12.
A, small part of the decline may also be attributable to the proposed increased
t:ariff for consumntion above 5 3 per month,  The SEEr forecast of 730,000 m3
standpipe consumption in 1980 compares with an estimated 790,000 m3 which
would be necessary to supply 90% of the population not served by private
connections with the desirable minimum of 25 liters per capita per day. In
vriew of the relatively small consumption from standpipes (an estimated 8%
of the total in 1980), this difference is not considered crucial. In light
of existing knowledge, SEEG's implied assumption of an average annual growth
rate of about 11% for large industrial consumers up to 1980 is also accept-
able.
4v.04     However, there is a definite need for SEEG to improve its demand
forecasting procedures, and. the urbanization study (para. 3.12) will help to
compile data in at least some of the areas detailed in Annex 6.
I.   Selection of Proposed Project
1.05      The project is the result of comprehensive studies involving a
survey of the available water resources in and around Libreville, and the
choice of the least cost solution (Annex 3). Present worth calculations at
a. discount rate of 10%, using pipeline and pumping costs, to meet demand for



- 12 -
the next 25 years, showed little sensitivity in pipeline construction for
pipe sizes between 0600 mm and 0800 mm. The minimum acceptable size (0600 nm)
was chosen in order to reduce the immediate capital requirements. However,
a final decision will be taken only when bids for the pipeline variants have
been received. Treatment plant, raw- and clear-water pumping stations ex-
tensions, are sized to meet expected. demand in 1979. Extensions of distri-
bution mains are based on the existing layout of the city, and will enable
the provision of services to the poorer areas of Libreville. The studies
have also shown that N'Toum, the location of the existing treatment plant and
pumping stations to be expanded, will remain the center of future source
expansions.
C.   Economic Return
4.06      Based on the calculations explained below, the economic return of
the project is expected to be at least 10%, as shown in Annex 8.  The sen-
sitivity tests showed a range of variation of about 3% above and below this
figure, these limits being reached with a 25% decrease and increase in total
costs. Costs were defined as the capital costs of the project, the capital
costs of additional works constructed after project completion to enable full
use of project capacity, and incremental system operating costs. All costs
are expressed at end-1972 prices, and exclude taxes, duties, depreciation,
financing charges, and consumer-financed works.. Incremental revenues arising
out of the project, expressed in end-1972 prices, were used as a proxy for
the economic benefits, applying the tariff proposed in para. 4.12 to the
demand forecasts for each consumer class prepared by SEEG.
4.07      In view of the simple methodology underlying the SEE. demand fore-
casts, the sensitivity tests included a 25% increase and decrease in the
growth rate assumed by SEEG. A 25% reduction in the growth rate is believed
to sufficiently reflect the risks; even then, the economic return would be
at least 7.8Z. A 25% increase in the growth rate raises the economic return
to at least 11. 4e ,
4.08      These estimates of the economic return are minimum values because
they omit non-quantifiable economic and social benefits in the form of
improved health and better living conditions, which would result from an ex-
tension of supply of potable water to the low-income population as discussed
below. There is no way to quantify these elements in the light of present
knowledge, but they would be substantial. As an order of magnitude, if un-
quantified benefits amount to only 25% of measured benefits, the economic
return rises to about 13%.
D.   Social Aspects and Tariff Structure
4.09      At present, only about one-fourth of Libreville's population has
access to water by way of service connections. This is partly due to Libre-
ville's rapid grouth; its population is dispersed and the settlements are
unorganized, so that construction of urban infrastructure is made expensive
and difficult. In addition, the high price of water, high connection charges,



- 13 -
and. relatively few public standpipes (42) have deterred large numbers of
people in the lower-income groups from using piped water.  Many people rely
heavily on rainwater, polluted dugwells, and nearby creeks, and are thus
exposed to water-borne diseases.  There is therefore a social need to in-
crease substantially the availability of potable water to the low-income
population.
4.10      To ensure that the extended water supply can and will be used as
fully as possible by all the citizens of Libreville, the Municipality and
SEEG have agreed to take all action necessary to extend the city's water dis-
tribution system; this would mean that by 1976, about 90% of the population
can obtain a certain minimum supply of potable water either by house connec-
tions at a reasonable charge, or by public standpipes installed at a reason-
able distance from all consumers without house connection. The minimum daily
consumption for each household has been estimated at 25 liters per capita, the
volume considered necessary to ensure an acceptable health standard.
4.11      As part of such action, the Municipality and SEEG have agreed to:
(i) increase the number of public standpipes from 42 to at least 100 by mid-
1975, so as to provide potable water to the lowest-income groups who cannot.
afford house connections even with the easier payment terms mentioned below,
or whose homes are not suitable for a house connection; (ii) facilitate the
provision of house connections to the lower- and middle-income population by
eliminating the monthly maintenance charges for meters and connections, and
by spreading payment of the connection charges over several years.
4.12      Moreover, the Municipality and SEEG have, in March 1973, implemented
the following new tariff structure:
Increase
Old Tariff               New Tariff             (Decrease)
/1
TaTiff  Consumption   SEEG  Investment  Total   SEEG`-/  Investment  Total
T3lcck   m3/month      Rate  Surcharge             Rate    Surcharge/2
(CFAF/mJ)-…     (CFAF/m)--------                       %
First   0 - 5       )                                50                   50       (33)
Second  5 - 30,000.    57         18       72        67        42        109        47
Third   30,000-60,000  54         18       72        64        42        106        4s
Fourth  60,000-100,000 51         18       69        61       42         103        49
Fifth   Above 100,000  48         18       66        58        42        100        52
Weighted Average        60        17        77       65        39        104        35
/1  Expected to increase by 3% annually
/2  Scheduled to be increased stepwise to this level in 1976 (see para. 6.09).



- 14 -
The main features of the new tariffs are:  (i) a substantial reduction in the
tariff for the first 5 m3 1/ of water consumption per house connection per
month, which will be of particular benefit to small consumers in the low-
income groups, and will ensure that the charges for 5 m3 of water, together
with connection charges, will not exceed 5% of the earnings of the lower-
income group (Annex 7, para. 8); and (ii) a substantial increase in the tariff
for all other consumers to a level greater than or about equal to the average
incremental economic cost (see Annex 8). The new tariff structure continues
to provide a progressive (but reduced) rebate to large industrial consumers.
It was agreed with SEEG and the Municipality to review, and if necessary re-
vise, the tariff str~icture from time to time.
4.13      The proposal to provide some 60 additional standpipes was based
upon a study using mid-1972 population estimates. Ideally, these additional
standpipes, as well as facilities of payment terms for house connections,
should be introduced immediately as was done with the. tariff structure. How-
ever, since these measures would aggravate a water shortage expected to start
at end-1973 and to last until mid-1975 when the project facilities become
operational, SEEG will implement these measures gradually until mid-1975.
4.14      By that date, a follow-up program must be established to increase
further the number of public standpipes and house connections in order to
provide a satisfactory water supply for over 90% of the future populationt of
Libreville.  This program cannot be formulated in detail until further infor-
mation has been gathered about: (i) the projected overall population growth
rate for Libreville, (ii) the distribution of that population by district and
by income group, (iii) the responsiveness of the demand for new connections
to measure (ii) in para. 4.11; and (iv) the impact of more public standpipes
upon the existing water-using havits of low-income groups. In this context,
the results of the urbanization study (para. 3.12) would be particularly
valuable.
1/   Equal to a per capita consumption of about 30-35 liters/day for a family
of five.



- 15 -
5. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
5.01      Although the Libreville Municipality will be the owner of the
installations to be constructed under the project, the proposed Loan would
be made to SEEG, which has the concession from the Municipality to operate
and maintain the Libreville public water supply system. SEEG will cover the
debt service out of the income from an investment surcharge added to SEEG's
water tariff.
A.   Structure and Functions of SEEG
5.02      SEEG was founded in 1950, when it was given a concession to supply
power for a period of 40 years to the town of Port-Gentil. It has since
acquired the other Gabonese public power and water supply installations, and
now has the monopoly in those sectors. Power operations account for 80% of
SEEG's revenues, and water operations for the remainder. SEEG has been and
is continuing to expand its facilities rapidly.
5.03      To allow for a Bank Loan of 25 years, SEEG's Board of Directors has
decided to extend the life of the company beyond 1990 (para. 5.02) to the year
2049.  SEEG's share-holders' meeting in April 1973 is expected to approve
this decision; sucic approval would be made a condition of effectiveness of the
propesed Bank Loan.
5.04      SEEG is a joint stock company with a share capital of CFAF 550
mnillion (US$2.4 million), of which the Republic of Gabon holds 49%, the
Gabonese Development Balk 1/ (BGD) 8C, and CCCE 13%. The remaining 30% are
controlled by three mainly French industrial enterprises which were founders
of SEEG (holding 8% each), by banks, and by other smaller companies.  The
shareholders have proportional representation on the 12-member Board of
Directors.  All shares are registered, with transfer being subject to Board
approval.
;.05      Tle. Board has full executive powers.  A two-third majority vote
-is needed for major decisions affecting such matters as investment programs,
acquisition and repeal of concessions, power tariffs, borrowing and approval
of financial statements, and appointment of the General Manager (on SEEG's
request proposed by Electricite de France, EdF). Water tariffs are not men-
t:ioned in SEEC's statutes. The Board has delegated to the General Manager
tuthority for day--to-day operations.  The President of the Board is named by
the Cabonese Government.
5.06      SEEG has so far been able to maintain satisfactorv autonomy, al-
though a recent dispute with the Government over the latter's payments for
power and water consumption led to a compromise agreement under which SEEG
1/   Major shareholders of the BGD are the Government (54.4%) and the CCCE
(22%).



- 16 -
cancelled the Government's debts and granted it a 5% discount on future bills;
for its part, the Government agreed to set up an equipment fund for SEEG,
and granted it a ten-year exemption from investment tax.
B.   Management and Staffin&
5.07      SEEG is a well managed organizatior, and its structure (Chart 3)
is adequate to handle the expected growth in the urban and rural systems.
Oualified EdF staff fill about three-quarters of the 20 executive positions.
No major management problems are foreseen in the near future. The staff
numbers about 725, with 8P working for Headquarters, about 240 each for the
centers in Libreville and Port-Gentil, and the rest for rural centers. The
number of staff seems appronriate to the level of operations. The profes-
sional staff consists almost entirely of expatriates who are either personnel
from EdF or recruited through that agency; clerical and secretarial staff
are recruited locally..
5.08      Management consultants (SESAM) retained by SEEC in 1971 to review
its organization recommended only minor changes to the present organization,
and that personnel planning, training, and salary structure be improved, and
a budget system introduced.
5.09      In 1971, SEEG set up a vocational training center for power opera-
tions, with a class of 16 students and four full-time teachers. Higher spe-
cialized training is carried out ahroad, either elsewvhere in Africa or in
France. Technical training for water supply personnel has started this year.
SEEG has agreed to extend the training program to cater to Gabonese manage-
rial, administrative, and technical staff.
C.   Accounting System
5.10      SEEC's accounting system had been organized according to the French
Charter of Accotnts, but was changed at the end of 1972 to comply with the
OCAT (Organisation Communes des Etats Africains, Malgache et Mauritien) stand-
ards.  Both the general accounting system and a cost accounting system by
center and kind of operation are well kept, and provide much useful informa-
tion. There are however several complexities generated by the requirements
of the concession system (paras 5.15 to 5.22).
5.11      SEEG prepares neither cash flow projections nor annual operating
budgets.  Recently, however, following requests from the Bank and from CCCE
for financial projections, SEEC, has decided to recruit an assistant to the
Deputv General-Manager to do its budgeting and financial planning.
5.12      The method of hilling and collecting is satisfactory.  Bills are
processed by a computer service company, and include the investment stir-
cbarges (para 6.08) which SEEG collects on behalf of the Municipality.  There
is a strict policy of disconnecting for non-payment, so that at the end of
1971 only one-fourth of the monthly private customers' billing was outstand-
ing, in addition to the December billing. The Government's and the Mfunicipality's
arrears for water and power consumption had been high until they were cancelled
at the end of 1971 (para. 5.06).



17 -
D.   Audit
5.13      The Board of SEEG appoints chartered accountants to carry out an
audit.  However, this audit does not meet the Banl s recuirements, since it
is limited to a somewhat superficial explanation of the changes of the bal-
ance sheet positions from the previous year. There is no thorough check of
bookkeeping or accounting procedures, or of income statement items.  Also,
no investigation is made to ensure that SEEG complies with its own by-laws
and commitments. It is expected that at least one of the chartered account-
ants, the Fiduciaire-France-Africiue in Libreville, could perform an audit
acceptable to the Bank and SEEG has agreed to such an external audit.
5.14      Because of the division of financing betveen SEEG and the conces-
sion grantors in the power and water sectors (see para. 6.01), and therefore
in the related debt service, SEEG's books in the past have not included all
assets and accounts of these sectors.  However, it is possible and more
meaningful to prepare consolidated financial statements.  It has been agreed
1hat a financial reporting system should be established which would include
revenues and assets owned by others but under SEICG's control, and that in
addition to the formal audit of SEEc's accotnts (para. 5.13), a review and
certification by independent auditors should be executed covering SEEG's
accounts consolidated with those of the concession grantors which are related
1:o the water and power operations of SEEG. This should be done (i) for the
I-later Supply Division Libreville: and (ii) for SEEG's water and power opera-
1:ions in Gabon.
r:.  The Concession Svstem
*5.15     SEEG operates under concession agreements, an arrangement common
in French-speaking African countries for the management of power and water
nublic utilities.  The concession for water supply in Libreville was signed
in 1958 for 40 years.
5.16      A concession agreement is basically a long-term management contract
tnder which a public institution (the concession grantor) which owns power
and/or water facilities hands over to a privately run company (the conces-
sionaire) resnonsibility for the oneration of these facilities. In Gabon,
there are three concession grantors: the Municipalities of Libreville and
cf Port-Gentil, and the Covernment for the rural centers. In all cases, the
concessionaire is SEEG. SEEG's major obligations and rights under these
agreements are as follows:
(i) to operate and maintain tne installations nrovided by the conces-
sion grantor;
(ii)  to execute the construction of new installations, which, unless
otherwise agreed, have to be paid by and belong to the concession
grantor (except for some power generation facilities);
(iii) to review and set the SEEG, rate from time to time with approval
of the concession grantor:



- 1is -
(iv)  to collect the revenue fron its own water charges and those from
any surcharges levied by the concession grantor;
(v)  to retain all net income obtained from operation of these installa-
tions (other than the concession gr-antor's surcharge), which is
presently reinvested by SEEG;
(vi)  not to pay any fee (rent) to the concession grantor for instal-
lations provideA.
Upon termination of the concession:
(vii)  to hand over to the concession grantor in good condition all in-
stallations originally receivecd plus those constructed over the
concession period;
(viii)  to obtain from the concession grantor an indemnity for the part
of the.investments financed by SPEC, which SEEG could not recover
through the amortization of its financing of concession assets
(caducite); and
(ix) on early termination, to obtain an additional indemnity for all
anticipated net income 1/ of future years until normal termination.
5.17      nvo major problems are inlherent in and arise out of the concession
system.  One is the possible conflict which may develop between the two par-
ties on termination of thle concession (who should receive the renewal fund,
and what indemnity the concessionaire should receive); the other is a com-
plex accounting system kept by the concessionaire.
5.18      The concessionaire accounts for a depreciation, called renewal
provisions, both) on the assets handed over by the concession grantor and
those financed by itself. These provisions, the accumulation of which is
called the "renewal fund",.should be used for renewal of concession assets.
5.19      On termination of the concession agreement, all concession assets,.
including - if any - those financed by the concessionaire, are handed over
to the concession grantor who is obliged to indenmify the concessionaire for
the unamortized part of those assets financed by the concessionaire.
5.20      The concession system involves a complex accounting system
particularly when, as in past, SEEG does not show all assets operated by it
in its balance sheet. Concession assets are not revalued since either they
do not appear in the concessionaire's balance sheet (when paid by concession
grantor) or, if they do appear (when paid by the concessionaire), the value
of the assets is considered a loan of the concessionaire to the concession
1/   Although the net income shown in SEEG's accounts is zero (para. 5.22),
the net income calculated for determination of the indemnity is posi-
tive, since it includes reserves.



- 19 -
grantor, which should not be revalued.  Depreciation (renewal provision) is
however calculated on revalued figures for assets, so that the concessionaire
has sufficient funds to cover increased replacement costs. Apart from the
or,linary depreciation (the renewal provision), the concessionaire charges
an additional amortization, called "caducite", on the assets financed by him
to recover his investment.
5.21      Two special features in the case of Gabon further complicate the
finances of the power and water sectors: (i) the Municipalities of Libre-
viLle and Port-Gentil levy investment surcharges on power and water consump-
tion in their respective areas; SEEG has to bill for and collect these charges
in addition to its own, and then prepare the annual investment programs for
Libreville and Port-Gentil financed by these surcharges: (ii) the Government,
as concession grantor, levies investment surcharges on S'EEG's power produc-
tion costs and power sales to finance investments in the rural centers, and
here again, SEEG has to prepare the relevant investment programs (Annex 9,
para. 57).
5.22      As a result of the investment surcharges, two types of revenues
derive from power and water operations in Gabon: SEEG's own revenue which
is devised to cover its operating costs, and the concession grantors' revenue
in the form of surcharges. Although all revenues from operations (including
surcharges) provide an acceptable financial rate of return (Annexes 10 and
13), SEEr's accounts showed zero net income over the past five years because
(i) SEEG's revenues do not include the surcharges, and (ii) SEEG accounlted
for somewhat high provisions for risks. Dividends were not distributed. In
1971 when SEEG expected to have to show a positive net income for future
yeEars, it established with Government approval an equipment fund, with the
intention that the annual provisions to this fund would be equal to its ani-
nual net income.  SEEG has reinvested all its excess cash flow.
5.23      In summarv, the concession system in Gabon has the following major
advantages and disadvantages: compared to the usual public-run water supply
systems, the major advantage of the concession system is that it is more con-
ducive to efficient management and is less subject to continuouis interference
by politically motivated forces. On the other hand, the concession system
necessitates a complicated accounting system, and may give rise to disputes
between the concessionaire and the concession grantor on termination of the
concession.  These drawbacks of the system cannot be solved by partial reme-
dies, and a fundamental change would introduce a totally different concept
which would require time to implement and might reduce the efficiency of the
now fairly independent management. Mforeover, although history has proven
that termination of contracts with privately oaned concessionaires results in
recompensation disputes, in the present case of a semi-public concessionaire,
there are not likely to be major disputes between the parties in the near
future. As shown in para. 5.04, SEEG's share capital is held by the Govern-
ment, a foreign aid agency (CCCE), apd locally established industries. These
local industries have up to now been more interested in aood water and power
supply than in distribution of profits. Moreover, the Government has a ma-
jority vote on SEEG's Board, and both it and the management of SEEG consider
the enterprise as a more or less public service company:



- 20
5.24      To reconcile certain stipulations of the concession agreement for
water supply in Libreville with the Bank procedures, the Municipality and
SEEG amended the agreement to provide for procurement on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding; to substitute, where appropriate, the titles
of Gabonese authorities; and to introduce the new tariff structure.
5.25      During negotiations, the Municipality of Libreville and SEEG also
agreed:
(i)  that SEEG will be the Borrower for the proposed Loan; and
(ii)  not to alter or prematurely terminate the concession agree-
ment for water supply in Libreville without the Bank's
prior approval;
and SEEG agreed:
(iii)  not to change its statutes without Bank approval; and
(iv)  not to approve changes in ownership of its share capital,
which would change its Board composition, before consulting
with the Bank. 1/.
1/   Such an agreement is possible since SEEG's shares are all registered, and
the Board has the right to veto any sales of shares by majority decision.



- 21 -
6. FINANCES
A.   General
6.01      In accordance with the concession system, the accounts for the power
and water facilities and operations in Gahon are separated between SEEG and
the concession grantor. Several elements are affected bv this separation:
the income by separate revenues from operations, the cash flow by separate
amortization and interest payments for loans made to SEEC and to the con-
cession grantor, and the assets by separate ownership. To demonstrate the
true revenues, costs, and requirements of the operations, the accounts of
SEEG and the concession grantors have been consolidated so that the financial
statements presented in this report may be comparable to those of standard
public utilities presented in other Bank reports (certain rearrangement of
accounts, described in Annex 9, was necessary for consolidation). Consequently
the following, while not an analysis of SEEG's finances as shown in its ac-
counts, gives a more accurate picture of the company's operations and of its
actual cash position.
6.)2      For this report, financial statements have been prepared and anal-
vzed for the following two hypothetical operating units:
(i) the Water Supply Division Libreville (WSDL) (Annexes 10,
11, and 12);
(ii) the power and water operations in Gabon by SEEG and the
concession grantors (Annexes 13,14, 15 and 16).
The power and water operations in Gabon were analyzed to give a picture of all
the operations of SEEG, the Borrower.  The financial projections take into
account investments in the power and water sectors up to 1973 (Annex 9, Ap-
ne:tdi% I), except for thie Poubara hydroelectric plant presently under pro-
curement which will be accounted for outside SEEG's accounting system and
for which SEEG does not provide financing.
B.   Water Supply Division Libreville
Past Record and Present Situation
6.03      The income statements for WSDL show improvements over the past five
years, when sales more than doubled. The operating. ratio before depreciation
dropped from about 60% to 45% over this period, and net operatin- income im-
proved from a negative to a positive value.
Financing Plan and Loan Repayment
6.94      The financing plan of WSDL for the project period 1973-1976 is
summarized below.  The Government and CCCE would finance 26% and 22% respec-
tively of the project cost. SEEG would contribute CFAF 253 million for proj-
eci: financing and interest payments during 1973-1976, and the Municipality



- 22 -
CFA5F 345 T-illion, representing together 4% of the project cost and all in-
terest during the construction period.  The Bank would finance the remainder,
or 43T of the total project costs.
FINANCING PLAN /1
(1973-1976)
US$
CFAF        Nillion
Million       Equivalent    ___
PROJECT COST                                 4,57             19.9         100
INTERNAL FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR PROJECT
Tlunicipality Libreville
Surcharge Revenues                     674            2.9
Minus: Debt Service on
Past Loan                           -39             -1.4
Sub-Total                                       345              1.5
SEEG Libreville Water Supply
Revenues                             1,453            6.3
Operating Costs                      -765            -3.3
Internal Cash Generation                 688            3.0
Transfer for Other Operations         -253           -1.1
Renewals                             - 65           -0.3
Increase in Working Capital          -112    _       -0.5
Sub-Total                                        258             1.1
Total Internal. Funds
(IMunicipality and SEEG)                        603             2.6
Interest on Project Loans                      -413             -1.7
Total Internal Funds Available
for Project                                  190            0.9           4
Y_TERNAI FtIITS AVAILABLE FOR PROJECT
Government Contribution                      1,200            5.2          26
Borrowings
IB RI)                        2,180                     9.5          48
CCCE.                         1,000                     4.3          22
Total Borrowings                             3,189           13.8          70
TOTAL SOURCES FOR PROJECT                    4,570            19.9        100
/1   This presentation--rather than a presentation of sources and applica-
tions of funds (as in Annex 12)--has been chosen to show the respective
contributions of the MHunicipality and SEEG to project financing (see
para. 3.03).



- 23 -
6,05      The proposed financing terms for the Bank/Loan are:  25 years
amortization, including 4 years of grace, at 7-1/4% interest.  The CCCE loan
would be for a term of 17 years, including 4 years grace (constant annuity), at
at 5% interest. The Government contribution would not be repayable, and wculd
thus be a grant to the Municipality.
6.06      SEEG has agreed to participate in project financing and debt ser-
v4ce, although according to its concession agreement it is not obliged to do
so.  SEEG's participation is desirable and justified for the following reasonst
(i) water operations in Libreville generate sufficient cash for SEEG, mainly
in the form of renewal provision (depreciation); SEEG's contribution would
come from this renewal fund; and (ii) the tariff would otherwise have to-be
higher than proposed.
6.37      The Municipality's surcharge revenues would be insufficient to
cover debt service before 1980, and SEEG would provide the balance from its
aown funds:
SEEG's Participation in Project Debt Service
TOTAL
1973-76  1977  1978  1979  1973-1979  1980
Surcharge revenues                   674     288   312   337    1,611       364
minus: debt service on
past loans                 -329      -87   -87  -30   -533         -28
Surcharge revenues available
for project loan debt service    345       201   225   307    1,078       336
Project loan debt service            413     312   312   312    1,349       312
SEEG's participation in project
loan debt service                   68     111    87      5      271        0
The SEEG participation would thus total CFAF 461 million (CFAF 271 million,
plus CFAF 190 million capital contribution, see para. 6.04) or US$2.0 million
equivalent. It would be an interest-free loan to the Municipality.
Tariffs (Annex 7)
6.08      The 1972 water tariff in Libreville of CFAF 77/m3 (US$1.27/1,000
US gal.) consists of two elements:  (i) a rate chatged by SEEG, which pre-
sently averages CFAF 60/m3 (US$0.99/1,000 US gal.) and had been increased in
accordance with a price index by about 3% annually, and (ii) an investment
surcharge averaging CFAF 17/m3 (US$0.28/1,000 US gal.) levied by the Munici-
pality, but also collected by SEEG.
6.09      Since the 1972 tariff level would have been insufficient to meet
future debt service and procide funds for future expansion of the water sys-
tem in Libreville, the average SEEG rate was increased to CFAF 65/m3 (US$1 .07'/
1,000 US gal.) in March 1973, and it has been agreed:  (i) to increase tariffs



- 24 -
further by about 3% annually as in the past, and (ii) to increase the Munic-
ipality's surcharge by CFAF 6/m3 (US$0.10/1,000 US gal.) each year until 1976
(para. 4.12). Thus, the average level of the water tariff is now CFAF 89/m3
(US$1.4611,000 US gal.), and would be CFAF 110/m3 (US$1.81/1,000 US gal.) in
1976, an increase of 42% over the 1972 price. The new average tariff is high
in comparison with other parts of the world, but still on a level comparable
with other French-speaking countries in West Africa. The level and structure
(para. 4.12) of the proposed tariff and of each of its two elements, namely
the SEEG rate and the municipal surcharge, were determined by taking into
account three criteria: (i) the different tariff blocks (except the first
social tariff block) should be as close as possible to the average long-run
incremental economic cost (see Annex 7); (ii) the average SEEG rate should be
set at a level where SEEG, which has no capital investment in the Libreville
water supply, can cover its costs, including management cost and provision
for renewal (1978 was taken as horizon); and (iii) the surcharge should be
set at a level to provide, together with SEEG's cash generation, sufficient
funds for future debt service and future expansion of the water supply system.
Future Finances
6.10      The income statement forecasts for the water supply division Libreville
(Annex 10) show satisfactory finances with the tariff increase proposed in
para 6.09. The cash flow return (see para. 6.17a) on average gross fixed
assets revalued by 3% p.a. from 1972 onward is projected at 10% in 1974, and
would drop to 7% in 1975 when most of the project works will have been trans-
ferred to fixed assets, but would rise to 9% in 1980. The operating ratio
before depreciation would decrease from 45% in 1972 to a more satisfactory
31% in 1980.
C.   Consolidated Finances of Power and Water Operations in Gabon
Past Record and Present Situation
6.11      Past consolidated financial statements reveal a rapid expansion
of operations and a sound financial position. Over the period 1967-1972,
operating revenues doubled and gross fixed assets tripled.  New inivestments
were financed to about one-fifth by internal cash generation. The balance
was financed by medium-term credits from CCCE and BCD, and by suppliers'
credits, the terms of which were softened for the Kinguele plant by Govern-
ment subsidies. The debt as a percentage of long-term capitalization (debt/
equity ratio) was sound, with an average of 48%. The cash generated was
twice the debt service. The operating ratio before depreciation averaged
54%.
Financing Plans
6.12      The consolidated financial projections have been based on a tenta-
tive investment and financing plan for 1973-78 prepared by SEEG for the pow-
er and water sectors in Gabon. The investment plan (excluding customers'
contributions) is ambitious in that it amounts to CFAF 20 billion (US$87
rmillion), about 1 1/2 times the gross fixed assets for water and power at



- 25 -
end-1972.  lowever, in the power sector it does not lead to unreasonable
reserve capacities, and the proposed project is the only major one for watcr.
Not included in the above figure is the future hydroelectric power plant at
Poubara which is not expected to be inter-connected with the other power sys-
tems, and which will principally serve two industrial consumers.  The Gov-
ernment has arranged the financing, and the plant will be accounted for out-
side of SEEG's finances.
6.13      Financing has still to be secured for most of the investments pro-
jected. As in the past, only about one-fifth of the program is expected to
be financed by internal cash generation; the remainder would be financed by
external resources, including supplier's credits, the terms of whicl are to
be softened for part of the projected investments by subsidies from the Gov-
ernment as was done for the first stage of the Kinguele project (para. 6.11).
However, this arrangement would only serve to shift from SEEG to the Govern-
ment the problem of short-term financing for long-term investments, but SEEG's
debt service ratio would be improved.
Tariffs (other than WSDL)
6.14      The level of average water tariffs in Port-Gentil and in the rlral
centers appears adequate to cover costs and part of future investments. Thev
do however have structural drawbacks similar to those in Libreville (Annex 7,
para. 6). Electricity tariffs are at a level sufficient to cover costs and
to provide part of the necessary funds for future investments.
Future Finances
6.15      Due to high debt service payments, the consolidated finances show
a somewhat tight cash position in the next Two to three years. However, the
financial situation thereafter improves substantially, although as a result
of large investments, the cash flow return on average gross fixed assets
(para.6.18(a))  revalued by 3% p.a. would stay at a somewhat low 7%.  The
operating ratio before depreciation would drop from 55% in 1972 to a more
favorable 45% in 1980, and the debt/equity ratio would not exceed 60%.
D. Financial Covenants
6.16      The above analysis of WSDL covers the related finances of SEEG
and the Municipality of Libreville. The proposed financial covenants for
WSD3L, which aim at assuring sound tariff, investment, and financing policies,
relate therefore to both SEEG and the Municipality. By contrast, while the
analysis of power and water operations in Gabon also covers the finances of
both SEEG and the concession grantors, the loan covenants for the combined
powiper and water operations relate only to SEEG's finances to assure its ca-
pacity to repay the proposed Loan.
6.17      The following covenants for WSTDL have been agreed:



- 26 -
(a) The Government, the Municipality of Libreville and SEEG
have agreed to set and maintain adequate water tariffs
for Libreville so that the cash flow return on gross water
supply assets in service for Libreville, realistically re-
valued from time to time as agreed by the Bank, would be
at least 8%, except for 1975-77 whien 7% shall be sufficient.
This would assure a level of average tariffs sufficient to
cover operating costs (excluding depreciation), debt serv-
ice, and a reasonable part of future investments. The
proposed cash flow return is calculated by dividing oDerating
revenues (including municipal surcharge) less onerating costs
before depreciation and interest charges, by gross wJater sun-
nly assets in service. The cash flow return covenant is pro-
posed in this case rather than the conventional rate of re-
turn covenant (based on net revenues after depreciation
charges compared to net assets in service) for the follow-
ing reasons (Annex 9, paras. 3-6): (i) it does not fluc-
tuate as widely as the conventional return over the years,
particularly when investments are relativelv large and made
at long intervals, (ii) it is easier to apply in the case
of this concession system, and (iii) it establishes a direct
link to the debt service covenant (which is particularly
useful if the debt service ratio is low, as it is in this
case). The assets will be revalued in accordance with a
formula agreed to by SEEG for the purpose of testing com-
pliance with this covenant only, since the concession system
does not allow recording such revaluation in the books.
(b) The Municipality of Libreville and SEEC have agreed:
(i) to submit to the Bank for comnents their annual
investment programs for the Libreville water sup-
ply system;
(ii)  that the proceeds of the water surcharge in Libreville
will continue to be managed by SEEG, and that these
proceeds will be utilized, to the extent necessary,
for debt service related to WSDL.
(c) SEEG, has agreed:
(i) to service the debt of the CCCE and Bank loans from
its own resources to the extent that the Libreville
water surcharge revenues are insufficient;
(ii) to take part in project financing to the amount of
CFAF 190 million; and
(iii) to make available, when necessary, the cash generated
by WSDL for financing new investments in tne Libreville



- 27 -
water supply system; such funds to be considered an
interest-free loan to the Municipality by SEEC. This
would: ' 1) enable financing pf future extensions of
the Libreville water supply system (including treatment
plant), and (ii) provide a reasonable reserve for fi-
nancing of a next project, from internal cash generated
by WSDL (Annex 9, para. 19), avoiding in future the
necessity of almost 100% external financing, as in the
case of the proposed project.
(d)  The Government has agreed to provide a contribution to the
oroject of CFAF 1,200 million, and to provide for possible
cost overruns.
(0)  The signing of a CCCE loan to SEEG in the amount of CFAF 1,000
million, for 17 years, with 4 years grace, at 5% interest,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed Loan.
6.18      Although the cash flow return covenant for WSDL (para. 6.17(a))
should assure sufficient cash generation to service the proposed Loan, ac-
count must also be taken of the impact of its other operations and debt in-
curred for them. Therefore the following covenants are designed to assure
SEEG's capacity to repay the proposed Loan, and consequently to cover SEEG's
cash flow and debt service, including WSDL (Annex 17).
(a) The Government, the Municipality of Libreville, and SEEG
have agreed:
(i) to set and maintain the average SEEG rates for
power and water supply in Gabon such as to assure
from 1973 on, a cash flow return from all opera-
tions (excluding Poubara plant) of at least 7% on
average gross fixed assets operated by SEEG (real-
istically revalued from time to time, as agreed by
the Bank; see para. 6.17(a)). This will provide
that a sufficient amoumt of cash will be available
for expected debt service and for a reasonable por-
tion of future investments.
(ii) to submit to the Bank for consultation, financing
plans for all major investments in the power and
water sectors of US$2 million or more.
(b) SEEG has agreed:
(i)  not to incur any debt with maturity of more than one
year, other than money borrowed for financing the
Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
preceding such incurrence or for a later 12-month



- 28 -
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is
greater, is at least 1.2 times the maximum debt serv-
ice requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt, including the debt to be incurred 1/. This would
limit SEEG's expected debt service, so that the cash
available (para. 6.18(a) above) would cover it.
(ii) not to distribute dividends of more than 5% on the par
value of its share capital unless otherwise agreed by
the Bank, to assure a reasonable cash position. This
would support a similar agreement of April 22, 1969,
between the Government and SEEC.
1/   The proposed ratio of 1.2 which may be low in comparison with other
cases, is considered adequate for the present case since SEEG's rapidly
increasing operations make a comparison of future debt service with past
cash generation particularly unfavorable.



- 29 
7- AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances specific
to this project were obtained, and have been included in the Loan Documents
in addition to the usual covenants for public utilities projects:
fa)  from the Government:
(i)  to waive import duties and turnover tax for project
items (para. 3.08); and
(ii) to provide a. contribution to the project of CFAF 1,200
million (para. 6.17(d));
(b)  from the Government, the Municipality of Libreville, and SEEG:
?i)  to establish a financial reporting system covering
gonsolidated accounts of SEEGts and the concession
grantor's water supply operations in Libreville, and
power and water operations in Gabon (para. 5.14);
(ii) not to alter or prematurely terminate the concession
agreement for water supply in Libreville without the
Bank's prior approval (para. 5.25 (ii));
(iii) to set and maintain adequate water tariffs for Libreville
so that the cash flow return on gross fixed water supply
assets in service, realistically revalued from time to
time as agreed by the Bank, would be at least 8%, except
in 1975-77 when 7% shall be sufficient (para. 6.17(a));
(iv) to set and maintain adequate SEEG rates for power and
water supply in Gabon so that the cash flow return for
SEEG on average gross fixed assets, realistically re-
valued from time to time as agreed by the Bank, would
be at least 7% fror. 1973 on (para. 6.18°(a)); and
(v)  to submit to the Bank for consultation financing plans for
all major investments in the power and water sectors of
US$2 million or more (para. 6.18(a));
(c)  from the Municipality of Libreville and SEEG:
(i)  to take all action necessary to extend the Libreville
water distribution system so that by 1976 about 90% of
the city's population can obtain a minimum potable water
supply either through house connections or through public
standpipes (paras. 4.10 and 4.11);



- 30 -
(d) from SEEC:
(i)  to extend its training program to allow training
of Gabonese managerial, administrative, and technical
staff (para. 5.09);
(ii) not to change its statutes without Bank approval (para.
5.25 (iii));
(iii) not to approve changes in ownership of its share capital
which would alter its Board composition before consulting
with the Bank (para. 5.25 (iv)):
(iv) to service the debt of the CCCE and Bank loans from its
own resources to the extent that the Libreville water
surcharge revenue is insufficient (para. 6.17(c));
(v)  to take part in project financing to the amount of
CFAF 190 million (para. 6.17(c)); and
(vi) on a debt service limitation (para. 6.18(b));
(e)  from CCCE-
(i)  to international competitive bidding for all project
items, except minor works (para. 3.08).
7.02      It was agreed that the following items would be made conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed Loan:
(a)  disbursements arrangements made between the Government and
CAAG (para. 3.09);
(b)  approval by SEEG's general shareholder assembly of extension
of the life of SEEG (para. 5.03);
(c)  conclusion of the CCCE loan agreement upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.17(e)).
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$9.5 million to SEEG,
guaranteed by the Government of Gabon, for a term of 25 years, including a
four-year grace period.
April 10, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
General Data on the Power Sector in Gabon
1.        SEEG has power distribution systems in 13 cities and rural centers
throughout the country. All generation facilities are diesel powered, except
in Port-Gentil where there is also an old steam power plant, at present gas
fired. In 1971, the total installed capacity for Libreville and Port-Gentil
was 31 MW with a peak load of 21 MW.
2..       SEEG's power sales were 100 Gwh in 1971.  Libreville's use amounted
to 50%, Port-Gentil's to 47%, and rural centers' to 3% of total sales, as com-
pared to the number of customers: 66% (7,600 customers), 20% (2,300 customers),
and 14% (1,600 customers) respectively. Increases in sales have been declin-
ing slowly from 23% in 1969 to 19% in 1971.
3.        The major industries have their own power plant, Comilog (Manganese
Nine) in Moanda and Shell in Gamba, both supply energy to SEEG in these towns.
The refinery and the plywood factory in Port-Gentil are inter-connected with
SEEC. At N'Toum, power is supplied through the plant included in the water
supply facilities (see Annex 2).
4.        SEEG is constructing a hydroelectric power plant in Kinguele, de-
signed for 60 MW, on the 110 m falls of the M'Bei river, 100 km from
Libreville. A 20 MW first stage and a 90 KV transmission line was expected
to be completed by January 1973 at a cost of CFAF 4 billion (US$16 million).
The power plant will in the near future be expanded to 40 MW. The third
stage, bringing the capacity to 60 MW, would require the construction of a
regulation dam at Tchimbele, upstream from Kinguele, where a further hydro-
electric plant could be constructed. Electricite de France is the consultant,
and also supervises construction.
5.        The investment plan for Gabon's power sector is summarized together
with the plan for the water sector in Annex 9, Appendix I.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
POWER TARIFFS IN LIBREVILLE
I.   Price per kWh                                                 CFAF/kWh
1)   Lighting and Domestic Use
Times Monthly Use of Subscribed Power
0 to 40     KWh                                     42.30
40 to 130   KWh                                      39.20
above 130   KWh                                     27.70
Kitchen Use                                               37.20
Municipal Surcharge on First Block                         3.00
Municipal Surcharge on Second and Third Block              1.50
2)   Other Uses than (1)                                       28.20
Municipal Surcharge                                        3.00
3)   Industrial Use (high tension connection)
(a)  During Peak Demand                                  30.70
(b) Outside Peak Demand:
For Contracts up to 200 kWh                    20.50
For Contracts above 200 kWh
Times Monthly Use of Subscribed Power
0 to 3500   KWh                           10.11
above 3500  KWh                            6.20
Municipal Surcharge on (a) and (b)                   2.00
4)   Air Conditioners
(a) Air Conditioners Connected to Regular Circuit
Times Monthly Use of Subscribed Power
0 to 40   KWh                             42.30
40 to 130 KWh                             39.20
above 130 KWh                             23.20
Municipal Surcharge on First Block                   3.00
Municipal Surcharge on Second and Third Block        1.50
(b)  Air Conditioners Connected on Separate Circuit    23.20
Municipal Surcharge                                  1.50
5)   Public Lighting
the first 2000 kWh monthly                          40.30
the following 2400 kWh                              38.70
the following 3600 kWih                             27.70
all the following kWh                               23.20



ANNEX 1
Page 3
II. Other Charges
1)   Connection Cost n.a.
2)   Customer's Advance and Monthly Charge
Subscribed             Customer's             Ionthly
Power                 Advance              Cliarge
CFAF                   CFAF                 OFAF
lonophase      220
Threephase    380
Monophase              600 - 3,000      1,500 -  7,500            85 - 211
Threephase 4 Wires  1,500 - 7,000       3,750 - 17,500           148 - 275
Other Use Low Tension
Threephase 3 or 4
Wires            1,500 - 7,000      1,500 - 7,000            148 - 275
Monophase 127
Threephase 220
Domestic Usage
Air Conditioner
Monophase              600 - 2,000      1,500 - 5,000             85 - 211
Threephase 4 Wires  1,500 - 7,000       3,750 -17,500            148 - 275
Other Low Tension Use
Kitchen
Threephase           1,500 - 7,000      1,500 - 7,000            148 - 275






ANNEX 2
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Facilities in Libreville and
General Data on Water Supply in Gabon
(A) LIBREVILLE
_i;tory
1.        Libreville's first water supply system was constructed in 1935
based on four local springs. In 1953/54 three boreholes were drilled, and
six more over the period 1961-64, of which three were later abandoned. Based
on studies by the consultants ORSTOM (France), the first stage of a surface
water treatment plant at N'Toum, a pumping station, and a pipeline to
Libreville capable of producing 6,000 m3lday were completed in 1967. During
19157-69, a second stage of the N'Toum treatment plant was constructed, which
brought its capacity to l0,000 m3/day, and the total capacity of the Libre-
viLle water system including springs and boreholes to 14,000 m3/day. Further
studies were carried out over that same period for the extension proposed
under the present project.
2.        In 1972, to reduce the expected water shortages in 1973/74, SEEG
conistructed a "first emergency scheme" consisting of a booster station in
the N'Toum - Libreville pipeline about 12 km from Libreville and other minor
works, at a cost of about CFAF 75 million (US$300,000) financed by the Govern-
ment.  This increased the N'Toum capacity to about 14,000 m3/day, and the
total water production available for Libreville to about 18,000 m3/day.
3.        Due to delays in preparing the present project, and in order to
avert a water shortage expected to start in 1973, SEEG contemplated in 1971
a 'second emergency" scheme, including a 12.5 km pipeline and a 4,000 m3/day
treatment plant expansion. This scheme was estimated to cost about CFAF
759 million (US$ 3 million), but CCCE declined financing it, because of
possible Bank objections to the higher overall costs which would have resulted
fram separating these works from the proposed project. Unfortunately, the Bank
had to postpone the possible financing of the project to 1973. The construc-
tion schedule howeyer provides for early completion of the first 12.5 km
of the pipeline, which will increase the capacity of the existing pipeline
by about 2,000 m3/day in 1974. Tests have determined that the N'Toum treat-
ment capacity can be increased by about 2,000 m3/day to 16,000 m3/day by
using floculant aids.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Description of the Existing Facilities
4.        Springs and boreholes (about 200 m deep) are located within the
present urban areas; they are therefore unprotected against pollution. The
deep-well water has a high iron content, and tends to clog the borehole
screens; water is treated for iron removal at two plants. The groundwater
facilities are not expected to last beyond 1980.
9.        The N'Toum surface water works are located on the N'Zeme river,
40 km from Libreville, and just upstream of tidal waters. They consist of
a small dam., a raw-water pumping station, and a treatment plant. The raw-
water pumping station has three pumps (each with a capacity of 260 m3/hour)
which deliver the raw water to a Degremont treatment plant, including two
'pulsator" sedimentation tanks (upward flow 2.75 m/h, sludge blanket type),
followed by eight rapid sand filters, designed for a filtration rate of 5 m/h.
Chemicals used include aluminum and lime; treated water is disinfected with
sodium hypochlorite. The raw water has a low mineral content, low hardness,
0.6 mg/liter iron; pH normally 6.2, and varying turbidity.
6.        The three main treated water pumps (of 350 m3/h capacity each, but
together 530 m3/h when the pumps run concurrently) supply Libreville through
a ductile iron pipeline, 40 km in length and 450 mm in diameter.  Pressure
surges are relieved by a watertower at N'Zengbourg, 17 km from N'Toum, which
has a capacity of 1,000 m3 and a surge tank at N'Toum. The pipeline is laid
in the right-of-way of the paved road from N'Toum to Libreville, roughly
following the watershed which separates the area draining south into the
Cabon Estuary from that draining into the rivers flowing north. The pipeline
crosses hilly country with dense tropical forests.
7.        A diesel power station supplied the treatment plant and pumping
station at N'Toum, as well as domestic consumers in the area. As N'Toum is
on the route of the high-voltage power transmission line from the Kinguele
hydroelectric power plant (see Map IBRD 10090) to Libreville, a sub-station
was completed there to replace the existing diesel power plant which has
become a stand-by facility.
8.        Libreville has six storage reservoirs (total capacity 5,500 m3) and
nine pumping stations. Chlorination can be done at some of these reservoirs.
9.        The total length of the distribution sXstem at the end of 1971 was
156 km, with diameters ranging from 60 mm to 500 mm (see Map IBRD 10091).
The number of service connections in 1971 was 4,223, an average of 27 per km
of distribution pipe.
(B) PORT-GENTIL
10.       The tovm of Port-Gentil (45,000 inhabitants) is located on an
island in the Ogooue delta. Port-Gentil is supplied from groundwater only;
the water-bearing sand stratum rests on clay and is connected with the sea.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
It is tapped by two series of boreholes, one of which includes 100 shallow
wells (up to 4 m deep), and the other eight deeper wells (up to 30 m).  Drawdow
is limited by the risk of salt water intrusion into the fresh water aquifer,
fed only by rains. Studies are under way to determine the possibilities of
expanding the catchment, and particularly of keeping the existing wells in
good condition (they tend to clog rapidly, and need to be cleaned with
solvents, an expensive and not fully satisfactory method). A project for
supplying water from the mainland is also under consideration, at a prelim-
inary estimated cost of about CFAF 4 billion (US$16 million).
11.       Iron content in the water supplied to Port-Gentil is quite high
(15 to 20 mg/l.), and is removed by aeration, sedimentation, and filtration.
Total capacity of the system is about 12,000 m3/day now that a new Degremont
treatment plant is in operation.
12.       The 'distribution system is being expanded based on a master plan by
SEURECA.  There are about the same number of standpipes (40) in Port-Gentil
as in Libreville, even though it has only half the population.
(C)       OTHER CENTERS
13.       General data on water supply distribution in the other small towns
or villages in the country are tabulated separately.  There seems to be no
problem of water sources, since settlements are small and rainfall is plentyful.
14.       In Moanda, SEEG bought water from COMILOG, which operates the
manganese mine in the area; in addition, a new Degremont plant for treating
river water has recently been cotnpleted.  In Gambia, the Shell refinery sells
water for private use. In the N'Toum area, water is distributed from the
Libreville treatment plant.



GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJBCT
General Data on the Water Supply Systems in the Country
PRODUCTION AN~D DISTRIBUTICN                                               CCNSUMPTION_
1971 Popu- Start of  1971 Daily  1971 Pro-  1971 % Pro-  1971 Pro-   1971 %    1971 Num-   1967    1968          1969    1970      1971    Average     Liter
lationl/   Operat.  Production  duction    duction of   duction        Unacctd. ber of                                                     Yearly      per ca-
Centers        (Thous.)               Capacity    m3/day     Capacity    in 1000 m3 for          Connect.                       1000 m3/year              Increase    pita
-3/day                               /year       Water                                                              btw. 1967   per
& 197 1.%   da
LIBREVILIZ       84           1935     14,000       12,800     98            4,688       24       4,223       1,662   1,986    2,610   3,183   3,552          21        115
PORT-GENTIL      45           1948     11,000        8,100      74           2,077       15       1,182       1,197   1,554    1,592    1,619   1,785         10        109
LAMBAREN4E        5           1961        330          285      86              91       37          115         34      41       56       5       57         15         31
MOANDA            8           1962        440          350      80              72       10           84         27      38       51       43      65         20         23
OYEM              7           1966        220          220    1 00/             65       10          104         19      27        43      50      58         32         22
BITAM             -           1969        220           55      25              13                    49                 _        -         7      13         -          -
MOUILA            8           1969        220          180      82              54       13           62                            1      24       47        _          i6
FRANCEVILLE       8           1969        220          220    1002/             59       21          103                           9       32       45                   16
GAMBA             3           1969        110            80     73              20                   181                            3      14      .19        _          16
N'TOUM            -           1969        See            _      -               13       15            8                            2       9      11         _
Libreville
1/ The population in the towns an v illages increases at the rate of 6 to 8% annually
2/ Being expanded
Febriwy 22, 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Technical Details of the Project
Source Studies
1.        The initial project proposals made in 1970 were based upon studies
of possible water sources carried out by BRGM and ORSTOM, and on a comprehen-
sive report prepared by SEURECA, following a detailed feasibility study.
2.        The BRGM survey was based on geophysical exploration and test
borings, and indicated a shallow aquifer (less than 4 m deep) adjacent to the
seashore and connected to a peculiar karstic formation. Pumping tests proved
the safe yield during the drought season to be less than 1,000 m3/day as
against a BRGM preliminary estimate of 6,000 m3/day. This supply would not
meet even one year's demand increase, and, moreover, SEURECA considers that
the cost of this water would be prohibitively high. The use of this source
has therefore been rejected.
3.        ORSTOM surveyed several rivers near Libreville and beyond N'Toum,
and constructed gauging stations. Short-term records were interpreted by
correlating them with gauging records on the N'Zeme river and rain records
over a period of 11 years (the uniformity of rain patterns and soil formations
allowed this procedure). the 1 in 20 years recurrent drought flow of the N'Zeme
river at N'Toum was estimated at 190 1/sec or 16,500 m3/day, equivalent to
the estimated Libreville demand in early 1973, which implied that an addition-
al source was necessary to cover peak demand in exceptionally dry years.
4.        SEURECA has proposed as the least-cost alternative for the addition-
al source, the diversion of water by pumping it from the upper Assango river
over the dividing ridge into the N'Zeme, upstream of N'Toum (map IBRD 10090),
and expanding the facilities at N'Toum. This diversion scheme would help
satisfy Libreville's demand up to about 1986. Several alternatives were
envisaged, for example, a dam on the N'Zeme or another diversion scheme, and
all were based on the N'Toum facilities.
Changes to Initital Project Proposals
5.        The inital project proposed an 0800 mm pipeline from N'Toum to
Libreville with auxiliary works. In 1971, after a Bank identification mission
had demonstrated that present worth calculations using pipeline and pumping
costs, showed very little sensitivity to pipe sizes in between 0600 - 0800 mm;
the minimum acceptable size 0600 mm was chosen in order to reduce the imme-
diate capital requirements. However, a final decision will be taken only
when bids for the various pipeline variants have been received.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Treatment plant extensions were reduced to meet expected demand
only up to 1979 instead of 1983-85. Originally, the new treatment plant was
planned at a new site close to the present one; the revised project provides
for a smaller expansion at the present site.
7.        Proposed extensions to the diesel power plant were substituted by
a less expensive transformer station on the nearby Kinguele-Libreville high
tension line. Distribution extensions have been restricted to the area of
Libreville that is already urbanized.
Project Description
Upper Assango Supply Scheme
8.        The Upper Assango diversion scheme includes:
- a small dam (about 35 m long) at Kougouleu to control the level
at the intake of the pumping station;
- a raw-water pumping station (ultimate capacity 43,000 m3/day)
and related equipment;
- a pipeline (4 km, 0500 mm) to be laid along the N'Toum-Kougouleu
road over the dividing crest between the north and south-flowing
rivers;
- a 900 m access road; and
- a power line (13 km, 20 KV) between N'Toum and the Upper Assango
pumping station, and a transformer station.
N'Toum Facilities
9.        The existing raw-water pumping station, treatment plant, and treated-
water pumping station will all be expanded from a capacity of 14,000 m3/day to
34,000 m3/day. Further expansion will probably be needed around 1979. A
sub-power station has recently been completed on the 90 KV Kinguele-Libreville
power transmission line, and the proposed project provides for an additional
transformer and related electrical equipment.
N'Toum-Libreville Pipeline
10.       The major component of the project is the new pipeline (40 km, 0600-
0800 mm) to be laid along the N'Toum-Libreville road, next to the existing
0450 mm pipeline.  The transmission capacity of these two pipelines (45,000
m3/day) would suffice intil about 1983.  Constrnction of the new pipeline will
be carried out so that the first 12.5 km will be put into early operation to
help relieve the expected water shortage in 197T. Laving of the pipeline
will involve widening the existing site.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       The pipeline will be fitted with anti-surge devices, including a
pressurized surge vessel at N'Toum, and a small surge tank 10 km from N'Toum.
Storage Reservoir
12.       A storage reservoir of 10,000 m3 capacity will be added at the end
of the N'Toum-Libreville pipeline, and will, with the existing tanks, bring
the total storage capacity to about one day's supply at the 1972 level.
Distribution
13.       The extensions of distribution mains (Map IBRD 10091) are part of
the network designed by SEURECA, based on the existing general layout of the
city and taking into account the road extensions known to be proposed. The
mains included in the project either close links which are now open, or
extend the network within urbanized areas. The mains would include the
following:
Length          Diameter
(m)            (am)
1,300          0700
300          "600
2,000          "500
2,000          "350
1,000     .     '300
2,000           "250
4,500           "200
5,000          "150
Total          18,OQO
This would be the first stage of a 27,000 m extension of the distribution
system estimated to meet demand until 1980.
14.       $mall diameter distribution pipes (0100 mm or below) are included
in the project partly for conneeting standpipes. The number of standpipes in
Libreville will be increased from 40 to 100, which is a number and distribu-
tion sufficient to make water available within a maximum walking distance
of 200 m from any dwelling in the squatter areas.






LatirciLIZ -k- 5awFFLY PrZ.CT
ect Cost  stimtes
Pr,po5d alloation 01 bank Lo..
-- - - ------------ COT ESTTATES -----------------------------   --- -------  POOSED ALCATION OF RS  LOU ----------
3 of Total     Foreign as  Percentage
Description                                                LAnai  Foreign   Total  LD.0l  Porign   Total    Projeq t Cost  S of Total    Basis                 Amount         ___
(in nillion -AF)          (in million  5$)                                                    (in million CFAC) (in uiUion WU)
A. WPPSi A555*5O DIVEISION SCHD4
1. Weir, access road                                   42      62         IG4     .1I      .27       .65           2            60            48% of Totl 50                *22
2. Pui4ng station and power line - tranuformer         45    106          15      .20      J46       .66           3            70            4      s -    72
3.FiPelim(4*e-500-dieter1)                             27    109          136     .12       ?7       .S9           3            OD 9%    - 65                                32S
Subtotal                    -        y          i                           17I        -r ^                                                       .62
S. 3ITUK JACIUM
1. Pus,Ag statios  extenpion                           37      as         125     .16      .38       .54                        70            4      o     60               .26
2. 20.C00 *3/day Trea_ent Plant extension              I7 226             325     .2       .99      1a1            7            70            4 %          16               .68
3. Trasforer Station                                   13      111        S14    .06       .17       .23           1                                 e5 49  26              AA
Subtotal                         5 Ph                                     in 11 .
C. elmZ LIK WITOOK - LU B
1. Pipe ewply (40 h.600 st-diameter)                   -       no         no       -      3.09      3.09          16           100            418%    -    341             1.4
2. LVing                                              214      320       3534      .93    L39       2.32          12             60           48%    s    256              1.11
3. Pipe li    route broadeoing                         96    lh4          240     .42      .62      1.04           5            60           118%    s    11                .so
Subtotal                            TM11 135                                                                        -                            3.09
D. STORM  AND DISaIBUTIN
1. 10.000G   3 Storage Reservoir                        8S    127         212      .37      .56      .93           5             60           4118%        102               ^
2. Distributionm  ins                                   60    2h0         300      .26     l.0G      1.30          7             80           48      . -   114             .63
Subtotal                            -          3                            77-                                                                  1.07
E.  IlSIRUAD0S
Ditribution extenwion, stand p'pe- ando
Housing (reconstruction) etc.                        39      90        129      .17      .40       .57          3             70           1.8%    '     62              .27
Total                       -       iN6                                                                                                          6.3o
F. CONISI1N7' SJRVICS AID PROJECT
L11  ISTRAI0E  I/                                  126    29S         420      *5      1.21      1.82          9             70            h8%    "    201              .87
Total (cnt of cootengesei-c)          2           IS i 3594                                 3 13  ihi                       15                                       7.18
G. COFfIN8NCIES
1. Physical 2/                                         135    315         b51e     .59     1.37      1.96         10             70           0'           210             .91
2. Price esealation 3/                                 272     408        680     1.18     1.78      2.96         15             -60           8%          319            1.39
-                    411~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
SROSAL CME Os (including  continpncie.) 57S56f112 91f17Z.OS4
1X.8. Totals m_   not bala   because of ocun.iag
aEtiatted ot lCS Of project eo t wi4th cntingencies
2/lt-  t d PVA7soa  ontingencies e   with trmature of the wocka and the byallable engineering
.t.   10 to 13% for pipe .opply, pipe laylng and aOsooiated civil wortsI lo  for clear
water pmping station and electricel gear; 17% for treatent plant; 20% for raw water punping
station extension; 20% for the weir, etc. Averag physical contingency a.wunteto 10.5%.
A/ Ul contzects noroaly have scalation pzave±onw; average escalation fron April 1972 to November
1972 wa 6% (duriog eit months).
Ilbrc 29. 1973






ANNEX 5
5ABON
LIBREVILIE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CUMULATIVE QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                                   Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                       at End of Quarter
(U.5$ Tousand)
1972/1973
June 30, 1973
1.973/1974
September 30, 1973-
December 31, 1973                                             212
March 31, 1974                                                419
June 30, 1974                                                 888
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                                          2,430
December 31, 197)4                                          3,968
March 31, 1975                                              5,594
June 30, 1975                                               7,030
1975/1976
September 30, 1975                                          8,131
December 31, .1975                                          8,639
March 31, 1976                                              8,801.
June 30, 1976                                               8,857
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                                          9,098
DeQember 31, 1976                                           9,i00
Pbbruary 27, 1973.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Consumption Statistics and Demand Forecasts
Consumption Statistics
1.        Water consumption in Libreville for the period 1966-71 as recorded
by SEEC, and for 1972 as estimated by SEEG, is shown below:
1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972
(thousands of   F
Small Consumers /1
(NDkmestic, Commercial,
Ac.ministration and
Small Industry)             1239   1516   1716   2220   2416   2765   3205
Large Industry /1               50     40    159    259    58S    613    710
Public Standpipes               74    105    111    131    179    175    203
TOT'AL                        1363   1661   1986   2610   3183   3553   4118
Grcwth Rate                           29%    20%    13%    22%    12%    16%
/1   The terms "Small Consumers" and "Large Industry" correspond to the first
two and last three tariff blocks respectively.
The average growth rate over the period was 21% p.a.
Denmand Projections
2.        The following table gives SEEG's current projections of consump-
tion up to 1980:
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
(thousands of mi5         -           -
Smaill Consumers              3485   3140   3555   4999   5496   5994   6488   7018
Large Industry                770    925   1015   1105   1195   1290   1429   1585
Public Standpipes              380    570    630    690    700    710    720    730
TClAL                        4635   4635   5200   6794   7391   7994   8637   9333



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        These projections assume a water shortage in 1973 and 1974.  From
1975 onwards, consumption is assumed to revert to a long-term trend based on
the following forecast growth rates:
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Forecast Growth Rate    16%    15%    12%    10%        9%      8%     8%      8%
SEURECA's Forecasts
4.        An independent study carried out by consultants (SEURECA) in 1970
analyzed Libreville's water consumption by administrative zones.  The results
were used to classify the zones in three groups, representing "high", "medium",
and "low" water consumption zones with daily per capita consumption of 215
liters, 100 liters and 43 liters respectively. The per capita daily consump-
tion in 1980 for the three classes of zones was estimated at 250 liters, 150
liters and 100 liters, and the total 1980 consumption for Libreville was
obtained by taking into account the anticipated population growth in the
different zones and adding the estimated consumption of large industrial and
commercial consumers. The study resulted in much the same demand for 1980
as that projected by SEEG.
5.        Both the SEEG and SEURECA forecasts are based upon more or less
arbitrary assumptions, but any forecast is of course complicated by several
major uncertainties about the future, such as population, number of house
connections and people served per connection, personal incomes, effect of the
proposed water tariff increase, effect of increasing the number of public
standpipes, and growth of industrial and commercial consumption.
6.        Since there is inadequate information on all these factors to make
anything but a highly speculative forecast of future water demand in Libre-
ville, the mission analyzed the longer-term trend of the SEEG forecasts in
order to Judge whether or not they form an acceptable basis for project plan-
ning. The following three groupings were used in assessing the forecasts:
first, consumption by domestic, commercial, administrative, and small in-
dustrial consumption; secondly, consumption from public standpipes; and
thirdly, industrial consumption.
Small Consumers (Domestic, Commercial, Administration and Small Industry)
7.        SEEG's data do not permit distinguishing between purely domestic
consumption and consumption by commerce, administration, and small industry.
Such a statistical separation should be made to improve the demand forecast-
ing techniques in so far as the factors differ which influence consumption
by these groups.  Probably a large part of commercial consumption -- notably
restaurants and cafes -- is influenced by the same variables that underlie
household consumption, notably population and personal incomes. However,
small industry and even hotels need to be linked to an appropriate indicator
of business activity such as turnover.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        A 1972 study requested by the Bank appraisal mission showed that
household connections represented 81% of total connections, and average annual
consumption per household connection was 323 m3 p.a. With an estimated five
persons per household, this is equivalent to 177 liters per capita per day.
Ideally, future water consumption by households should be assessed by calcu-
lating the existing relationship between income and water consumption, and
applying this relationship to a forecast of the future income pattern of
fauilies with household connections, taking into account the expected increase
in the number of house connections attributable to the easier payment terms
for connection charges proposed in para. 4.02 of the main report. Data for
such a study do not exist. The main effect of the easier payment terms for
connection charges will be felt by the lower income groups who can be ex-
pected to consume less water per capita than the present average. Consumption
per person served by a house connection is therefore likely to fall, although
the number of persons served per connection will probably rise due to the
larger family size of lower-income groups. A plausible rate of growth in
cornections is given in Annex 10 and implies a total of some 10,500 connections
by 1980.  If in 1980 the number of persons per household rises to six, the
proportion of total connections represented by household connections rises to
85%, and consumption per non-domestic connection remains unchanged, then the
SEEG forecast implies a decline in the daily consumption per capita of house-
holds to 166 liters, a not unreasonable reflection of the growing number of
lo,wer income families.
Public Standpipes
9.        The population in Libreville has grown rapidly since 1960 and is
currently increasing at about 7% p.a. 1/. Such a growth rate could be main-
tained for another decade even though Libreville is absorbing per year about
1% of the population of Gabon. If so, population in 1980 would be about
15CI,000. 2/ If house connections are 85% of total connections, as assumed
abc've, with an average of six persons per connection, then in 1980, 65% of
the population will be relying on public standpipes. Even if this figure
were known with mor3 certainty, a refined forecast of public standpipe consump-
ticin in 1980 could not be made because too little is known about the willing-
ness of the population to alter their present water-using habits, e.g. collection
of rainwater and the use of wells, and the ease with which standpipes can be
macle accessible. However, if 90% of the estimated population not served by
house connections in 1980 consume 25 liters per capita per day -- considered a
desirable minimum -- public standpipe consumption would be 790,000 m3 compared
wit:h 730,000 m3 estimated by SEEG.
1/   See "The Current Economic Situation and Prospects of Gabon", IBRD Report
No. AW-29a dated December 17, 1971.
2/   This compares with an estimate of 130,000 cited by WHO.  See the Project
Document for the project entitled "Drainage, Traitement et Evacuation des
Dechets Liquides et Solides de Libreville".



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Large Industry
10.       Large industrial consumption accounts at present for 17% of total
consumption. Information here is also sufficient only for speculative pro-
jections. SEEG's asaumption of an average annual growth rate of about 11%
is reasonable in the light of existing knowledge.
Conclusions
11.       It is apparent that any attempt at forecasting future water demand
in Libreville is complicated by poor data about the existing situation and
major uncertainties about the future. Apart from the problems already
mentioned, the effect of the proposed increase in the average water tariff
represents another unknown.  SEEG's judgement is that the effect is likely
to be small in relation to total demand. The mission accepts this judgment,
and believes that the effect of the tariff increase may be allowed for
sufficiently in the anticipated decline in consumption per connection from
840 m3 p.a. in 1972 to 820 m3 p.a. in 1980.
12.       In summary, the long-term trend of the SEEG forecast, although per-
haps conservative in relation to past trends, is for the present acceptable
as a basis for project planning. However, the mission's view is that there
is a definite need for SEEG to refine its demand-forecasting procedures, and
to this end it is strongly recommended that SEEG and the proposed urbanization
study should attempt to compile data in at least some of the areas indicated
above. In particular, it should be possible to obtain empirical evidence on
the responsiveness of water demand and the demand for new house connections
to the proposed tariff increase and to easier payment terms for house connections.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Tariffs in Libreville
Present Tariff
1.        The average 1972 water tariff in Libreville of CFAF 77/m3
(US$1.27/1,000 US gal.) is on a level comparable with several other French-
speaking countries in western Africa, but very high in comparison with other
parts of the world, including most of the industrialized countries. Moreover,
while these tariffs have been just sufficient in 1972 to produce a positive
rate of return, they would be insufficient to cover service for present and
future debt of the water supply facilities in Libreville. The tariff con-
sists of two elements: (i) a rate charged by SEEG of CFAF 57/m3, which
becomes slightly less for large consumers (para. 6 ); and (ii) an investment
surcharge of CFAF 18/m3 levied by the Municipality.
2.        The SEEG rate may, according to the concession agreement, be
adjusted to cope with price increases according to a formula based on price
indices and stipulated in the concession agreement. The rate may also be
adjusted to match changes in the cost structure as a result of the construc-
tion of new facilities being commissioned. The SEEG rate has been increased
gradually from CFAF 44.1/m3 in 1967 to its present level of CFAF 57/m3.  In
addition, SEEG levies a monthly maintenance charge for meters and connections,
the amount of whicn is dependent on the meter size. Finally, there is a
connection fee which for 16 mm house connections averaged CFAF 39,000 (US$170),
and in addition a customer advance of about CFAF 2,000 (US$9).
3.        The surcharge was first levied at CFAF 12/m3 in 1964, and increased
in 1968 to its present level of CFAF 18/m3.
Proposed Tariff
4.        The level and structure of the proposed tariff and each of the two
constituent elements, namely the SEEG rate and the Muniripal surcharges, were
determined by SEEG and the mission by taking into account three criteria:
(i) the different tariff blocks (see para. 6), except for the first social
tariff block, should be as close as possible to the average incremental
economic cost 1/, (ii) the average SEEG rate should be set at a level where
1/   Defined as the cost per m3 of supplying the incremental water volumes
attributable to the project. It was calculated at CFAF 98/m3 as follows:
the present value of capital and operating costs due to the project were
divided by the present value of all sales due to the project. The cost
stream (expressed in end-1972 prices) and output streams (expressed in
m3) were discounted at 10%.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
SEEG, which has no capital investment in the Libreville water supply, can
cover its costs, including management costs and provision for renewal (1978
was taken as horizon); and (iii) the surcharge should be set at a level to
provide, together with SEEG's cash generation, sufficient funds for future
debt service and future expansion of the water supply system.
Average Tariff Level
5.        The average SEEG rate was calculated at CFAF 65/m3, and is ex-
pected to increase by 3% annually.  The average surcharge was set at CFAF
39/m3, a level which it would reach after gradual increases over the coming
four years as follows:
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
(CFAF/m3)
Actual Surcharge                       18      24     30      36-  42
Average Revenues from Surcharges /1  17        22     28      34      39
/1   The average revenue from surcharge per m3 sold is lower than
the actual surcharge, since the First Block tariff is exempt
from this surcharge (para. 4).
Tariff Structures
6.        The structure of water tariffs in Libreville in 1972 resulted in
prohibitive charges for lower income householders. The following new tariff
structure was therefare tentatively agreed between SEEG and the mission:
Old Tariff                      New Tariff
Tariff  Consumption  SEEG  Investment  Total  SEEG-  Investment  Total  Increase
Block   m3/month      Rate  Surcharge            Rate    Surcharne/2         (Decrease)
-----(CFAF/m3)              ------- ---  %--- 
First  0  -  5                                    50        -           50      (33)
57     18          75
Second 5  -  30,000                               67      42          109        45
Third  30,000-60,000  54       18          72     64      42          106        47
Fourth 60,000-100,000 51       18         69      61      42          103        49
Fifth  Above 100,000  48       18         66      58      42          100        52
Weighted Average       60      17          77     65       39         104        35
/1   Expected to increase by 3% annually
/2   Scheduled to be increased in stages to reach this level in 1976 (para. 5).



ANNEX 7
Page 3
7.        The main features of the new tariff are:  (i) the introduction of
the low First Block for consumption of the first 5 m3 month, which will benefit
particularly the small consumers in the low-income groups; (ii) a substantial
increase of the tariff for high consumption which will have its major impact
on the larger consumers, and thus (iii) a proportional reduction in the present
"rebate" to such larger consumers. In addition, (iv) the monthly maintenance
charges for meters and connections will be eliminated, which will proportionally
benefit small consumers in the low-income group more; and (v) arrangements
will be introduced allowing consumers to repay connection charges by monthly
installments over a five-year period.
8.        As a result of (i) and (iv) consumers of only 5 m3/month would, as
compared to the present tariff, pay approximately 60% less. Consumers who
use over 5 m3/month and under 16 m3/month would also benefit from lower
charges, but not as much. For example, a consumer of 10 m3/month would pay
about 20% less than the present tariff. Consumers who use over 16 m3Imonth
(less than 60% of connected households) would pay more (100 m3/month will
cost about 35% more). This tariff change is not expected to have a signi-
ficant impact on demand (see Annex 6, para. 11).
9.        The different tariff blocks were determined as follows:  the First
Block tariff was set at a level so that consumers who can afford house con-
nections and whose houses are fit for service connections, would not pay more
than about 4 to 5% of their monthly salary for water charges. With a minimum
monthly salary of CFAF 20,000 (US$87) for the low-income group, the monthly
'ater charges should therefore not exceed about CFAF 900. With monthly payment
for installation of a connection estimated at CFAF 650, CFAF 250 would be left
for a monthly consumption of 5 m3 considered the minimum to obtain an acceptable
hlealth standard. Therefore, the First Block tariff was set at CFAF 50/m3 and
exempt from surcharge payment, which is judged reasonable on social grounds
and on what the people can Ray, and is higher than the estimated incremental
ciperating cost of CFAF 32/min. For the Third, Fourth and Fifth Blocks, SEEG
insisted on having a stepwise preference of at least CFAF 3/m3 over the next-
lower block (see para. 6). On this basis, the SEEG rate for the Second through
F'ifth Blocks was then calculated at a level which would ensure an average SEEG
rate of CFAF 65/m3, taking into account the respective consumption in each
block. The surcharge would be imposed on top of the SEEG rate in the Second
through Fifth Blocks.
10.       It might be argued that the size of the tariff rebate granted to
consumers above 30,000 m3/month, although reduced, is still not fully justified,
ssince given the characteristics of the water system in Libreville, economies
cof scale in the distribution system (larger connections and less administrative
work, e.g. billing for large consumers) are small, and probably exceeded by
:he high marginal cost of water production and transmission. However, consid-
e ring that SEEG initially suggested much higher preferences, it was felt that
as much as possible had been achieved at this first attempt by the Bank to
siuggest a tariff structure that represented an improvement, at least from a
social point of view. It is possible hosever that the Government may still
decide on higher preferences for larger consumers, since it argues that the
proposed high tariff would discourage industries and hotels from establishing
t:hemselves in Libreville.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Public Standpipes
11.       Consumers from public standpipes will, as in the past, receive
water free of charge, and the Municipality would pay SEEG according to the
Second Block tariff. To enable the Municipality to meet increased payments
(due to increased water tariffs and increased consumption from public stand-
pipes), the power surcharge for consumption by air-conditioners would be in-
creased from the present CFAF 2.5/KWh to about CFAF 5.0/KWh 1/. This means
in effect that the higher income groups would finance the water consumption
of the lowest income groups. Electricity consumption is not expected to be
significantly affected.
12.       The alternative solution for reducing the Municipality's payments
for water, namely lowering the tariff for public standpipe consumption, was
considered, but was rejected by the Government and SEEG because it would
have required an even larger increase in the water tariff for the Second
through Fifth Blocks.
1/   The tariff for air-conditioners is CFAF 23.2/KWh excluding surcharge.
The proposal represents a 14% increase.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        Existing production capacity is sufficient to support a maximum
consumption of nearly 5 million m3 per year. On the basis of SEEG's demand
projections (see Annex 6), this level will be reached in 1973 and water
3hortages are expected until 1975, the date for project completion. All sales
above this level up to project capacity (nearly 8'million m3 per year) 1/
can therefore be attributed to the project. It is estimated, again on the
basis of SEEG's forecasts, that project capacity will be reached in 1984. A
project life'of 50 years is assumed.
Costs
2.        The costs used in the economic return calculation, shown in the
Table "Project Cost and Benefit Streams" below, are defined as the capital
costs of the project, the capital costs of additional works constructed
after project completion to enable full use of project capacity, and incre-
mental system operating costs.  All costs are expressed at end-1972 price
levels, and exclude taxes, duties, depreciation, financing charges, and
consumer-financed works.
Benefits
3.        The economic benefits of the project cannot be fully quantified for
the reasons explained in para 4, and incremental revenues arising out of the
project were used as a proxy in the following way. SEEG's forecasts of sales
were used to find the sales attributable to the project for each consumer
class defined by the proposed tariff. 2/ The proposed tariff was then applied
to these projections to obtain the project benefits as incremental revenues,
stated in end-1972 prices and allowing for the phased introduction of the
tariff proposed in para. 5 of Annex 7. The financial calculations elsewhere
in the report assume that the SEEG rate will increase at 3% p.a. up to 1980
to reflect inflation, whilst the Municipality's surcharge will be held
constant in money terms. Viewed in end-1972 prices, this means that the
1/   Including the additional: treatment plant and distribution extensions
planned for 1979.
2/   Since these forecasts employ a simple methodology (see Annex 6),
sensitivity tests were carried out as described in the next section.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
SEEG rate remains constant, whilst the surcharge declines by 3% p.a., which
is the approach adopted in the economic analysis. By 1980, the tariff for
the Third Block will have fallen to the level of the average incremental
economic cost (CFAF 98 per m3 as described in Annex 7) and the average
tariff will be slightly below this level. It is therefore assumed that from
1980 onwards, the surcharge would remain constant in real terms (i.e. at
*nd-1972 prices). The resulting benefit stream appears as Column 5 in the
Table below, and gives an economic return of at least 10%.
Project Cost and Benefit Streams
(million CFAFPand end-1972 prices)
Investment    Operating
Year            Cost           Cost          Total Cost          Benefits.
(Col. 1)        (Col. 2)      (Col. 3)          (Col. 4)           (Col. 5)
1973             102                             102
1974            1586                            1586
1975            1801             -2             1799                 55
1976             301             10              311                218
1977              26             26               52                276
1978              26             41               67                333
1979             295             57              352                392
1980              31             79              110                456
1981              31            100              131                528
1982              31            123              154                606
1983              31            149              180                691
1984              31            178              209                745
1985-2024                         178              178                745
4.        These estimates of the economic return are minimum values because
they omit consumer surplus 1, and "social" benefits, notably improved health
conditions resulting from the proposed measures to promote the use of potable
water by the low-income population. There is no way to quantify these factors
in the light of present knowledge. The former would require knowledge of the
demand curve, but in the case of Gabon, with its very high tariff level, may
be less than elsewhere. Calculation of health benefits requires much more
information than is available about the likely impact upon health of the
additional water supply, as well as a valuation of this impact in money terms.
It is known that there is extensive pollution of streams in Libreville, that
these streams are used by low-income families for drinking, cooking and
washing 2/, and that there is extensive infection from waterborne diseases,
1/   The additional amount of money which people would be willing to pay
for what they actually consume.
2/   A sample survey of low-income families carried out by SEEG showed
that 232 used for drinking water, 41% for cooking, and 78% for washing.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
inlcluding bilharzia 1/. Whilst impossible to quantify, it is believed
that the health benefits of the project are likely to be substantial. For
example, as an order of magnitude, if health benefits amount to only 25% of
miasured benefits, the rate of return rises to 13%.
Sensitivity Analyses
5..       Analyses were carried out to test the sensitivity of the.economic
return to variations in capital costs, operating costs, total costs, and
demand. These results are summarized below:
Rate of Return (%)
Increase t%)    Decrease (%)            in case
(Case A)        (Case B)          A.          B
1,  Base Case                    -               -                   10%
2. Operating Cost               25              25             9.1         10.6
3.  Capital Cost               .25               25            8.0         12.7
4. Total Cost                   25               25            7.4         13.5
5. Growth Rate of Demand        25               25           11.4          7.8
6.        As stated above, benefits in the L'ase Case were calculated from
SEEG's consumption forecasts which, although not unreasonable, employ a simple
methodology (see Annex 6). Particular attention must therefore be given to
tlhe sensitivity of the rate of return to variations in demand. The growth
rates forecast by SEEG (see Annex 6) were increased and decreased by 25%
with the results shown in the above table. The mission's view is that the
S:EEG forecast may be conservative, and a 25% decrease in the growth rate is
believed to.be sufficiently pessimistic. Of course, if the growth rate of
demand is more than 25% above forecast, the economic return would improve
beyond 11.4%. In general, the sensitivity tests indicate a variation in
t'he economic return of about 3% above and below the Base Case of 10%. The
mDst adverse case, namely a combination of a 25% increase in operating costs
and a 25% decrease in the growth rate of demand, was not considered because
of the very low probability of its occurrence.
1/   See WHO Project document for the project entitled "Drainage, Traitement
et Evacuation des Dechets Liquides et Solides de Libreville".






ANNEX 9
Page 1
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Past Finances and Assumptions for Financial Projections
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No,
As  General  *.......*   .0...... ......ee 0.......... e....e.e..............  1
Consolidation of Accounts of SEEG and the Concession
Grantors 9.............e...e...0e                                1
Basis for Projections    , ..............................          1
Rate Covenant                                                      1
B.   Water Supply Division Libreville ...                                     2
B1.  Income Statements (Annex 10)                                       2
Operating Statistics and Projections .......... ....          2
Operating Revenues        ......3.......... ..*               3
Operating Expenses                   e                        3
B2.  Cash Flow Statements (Annex 11)                                    6
B3.  Debt Schedule (Annex 12)                       .e...g.eee.         8
C.  Power and Water Operations in Gabon ..........                           8
Cl.  Consolidated Income Statements (Annex 13) .......... ,,           8
Operating Statistics and Projections                          9
Operating Revenues ..........           ,                    10
Operating Expenses                                           10
C2.  Balance Sheets (Annex 14) ....,                                   11
Assets                            ...nn-**.-..@@.........-* .11
Equity and Liabilities .........................,       . 11
C3.  Cash Flow Statements (Annex 15) ..........................         13
C4.  Debt Schedule (Annex 16) .............................        ,, 13
D..  SEEG's Cash Flow Return and Debt Service Ratio (Annex 17)   ,           13
Appendix:
I.   Power and Water Sector Investment Program
II. Rearrangement of Equity Accounts for Past Years
III. Past and Projected Provisions to Equalization and
Compensation Funds.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Past Finances and Assumptions for Financial Projections
A.  General
Consolidation of Accounts of SEEG and the Concession Grantors
1.        According to the concession system, the accounts for the power and
water facilities and operations in Gabon are separated between SEEG and the
concession grantors. Several elements are affected by this separation: the
income by separate revenues from operations, the cash flow by separate amor-
tization and interest payments for loans made to SEEG and to the concession
grantors, and the assets by separate ownership. To demonstrate the true rev-
enues, costs and requirements of the operations, and because management of
resources are of more concern to the Bank than questions of ownership, the
accounts have been consolidated so that the financial statements presented
in this report may be comparable to financial statements of public utilities
presented in other Bank reports.  This required some rearrangement of past
accounts as presented in SEEG's documentation.
Basis for Projections
2.        Unless otherwise indicated, all income statement and balance sheet
items were projected by taking as base the respective figures for 1971 given
by SEEG's accounts. Annual inflation of 3% has been applied to all cost pro-
jections on the basis of past long-term increases in the price index in Gabon.
Rate Covenant
3.        "Cash flow return" is proposed as rate covenant -  rather than the
conventional rate of return covenant -  since the SEEG accounting system (as
based on the concession system) does not provide the data for calculating
the conventional rate of return. The cash flow return is defined as operat-
ing revenues less operating costs (before depreciation and interest charges)
divided by gross fixed assets in op-ration:
I
net income (before depreciation)
gross fixed assets in operation
In comparison, the numerator of the conventional rate of return is reduced
by the annual depreciation, and the denominator is reduced by the accumulated
depreciation:
not income (after depreciation)
net fixed assets in operation



ANNEX 9
Page 3
4.        In accounting systems kept according to the concession system, the
concession grantor's assets must not be revalued, but depreciation (renewal
provision) is accounted for by the concessionaire on somewhat highly revalued
assets. As a result, both the annual and the accumulated depreciation
(renewal fund) on assets of the concession grantor are too high in relation
t,o the value of these assets 1/. An arbitrary adjustment would be necessary
fDr calculation of a meaningful rate of return.
5.        Moreover, the cash flow return has the advantage over the conven-
tional rate covenant in that it does not fluctuate as widely over the years
(see Annexes 10 and 13), particularly when investments are relatively large
and made at infrequent intervals, since the gross rate base stays more or
less constant between two taajor investments, whereas the net rate base de-
clines due to deducted accumulated depreciation. Therefore, a fixed cash
flow return ratio allows more accurate financial control than a fixed con-
ventional return ratio.
6.        Finally, the cash flow return covenant establishes a direct link
to the debt service covenant in that it assures a minimum level of cash gen-
eration, while the debt service covenant limits the future debt service which
has to be covered by the cash generation. This is particularly useful in the
present case, where the debt service ratio 5.8 low.
B.  Water Supply Division Libreville
7.        For the Water Supply Division Libreville (WSDL) income and cash
flow statements and a debt schedule were prepared. A balance sheet has not
been prepared, since only part (the assets) of the balance sheet is known.
I11, Income Statements (Annex 10)
Operating Statistics and Projections
8.        Past and projected increase of the "number of connections" are as
f'ollows:
-----Past   ………_r___----------Pocted------ -
'1969  1970  1971  1972   1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
15%   12%   10%   10%    10%   10%   12%   12%   12%   10%   10%   10%
9.        The "total population" is expected to increase by 7% annually.  The
"population served" was calculated by assuming five persons per connection
lip to 1973 and six thereafter, to reflect the influence of the project in
persuading larger families of the lower income population to obtain house
connections.
/j In the present case, immediate revaluation of assets is not necessary,
since the project assets are large (twice the value) in relation to the
existing assets.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
10.       "Volume produced" is expected to increase by 16% in 1973, tapering
off gradually to 8% in 1979, except in 1974 and 1975, when sales will be
limited by the existing water production capacity (see Annex 6). The pro-
portion of water unaccounted for is conservatively projected to be constant
at 25% of production, although SEEG is expected to take measures to reduce
leakages and other causes of physical or accounting losses.
Operating Revenues
11.       Operating revenues consist of "water billings" by SEEG, and an in-
vestment "surcharge" levied by the Municipality of Libreville. The average
SEEG rate would be CFAF 65/m3.in 1973, and would increase by about. 3% annually.
The surcharge will also be gradually increased as follows:
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
------------CFAF /m3-------
Actual Surcharge                  -18     24      30     36     42
Average Revenue from Surcharge   17       22      28     34     39
The average revenue from surcharge is lower than-the actual surcharge, be-
cause the surcharge will not be billed to the first 5 m3 per month consump-
tion per connection.
Operating Expense
12.       "Labor" cost will increase by 5% per year to reflect salary and
price increases of 2% and 3% respectively.  When the additional treatment
plant becomes operational in early 1976, a deputy plant manager and 12 addi-
tional employees are expected to be hired at a total cost of about CFAF 6
million annually.
13.       The cost of "chemicals" was calculated taking into account the follow-
ing consumption per m3 of 'water produced and anticipated price increases of
about 3% per annum:



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Dosaqe          Cost in 1972       Cost/m3 in
Chemicals                    gr/m3             CFAF/g               1972
Purifloc             0.25 in 1972 then           1.809           0.4523
0.5 in 1973 and 1974
Aluminum Sulfate               20                0.027           0.5400
Lime                           14                0.0218          0.3052
Calcium Hypochlorite            1.5              0.2             0.3000
Amnonium Sulfate                2                0.078           0.1560
1. 7535
1972  1973  1974 .1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Production
(in million m3)         5.5   6.2   6.2   6.9   9.1   9.9   10.7  11.5  12.4
Cost/m3                 1.75  2.27  2.34  1.42* 1.46  1.51   1.55  1.60  1.65
Total Cost
(in million CFAF)       9.6  14.1  14.5   9.8  13.3  14.9   16.6  18.4  20.5
*    Use of Purifloc to be discontinued after new treatment plant becomes
operational.
14.       "Power" consumption increases geometrically with water produced, ex-
cept in 1975 when the pipeline will be completed. The price of power increases
by 3% annually.
Power Consumption
1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980
Consumption KWh/m3      0.667 0.795 0.795 0.585 0.440 0.440 0.474 0.509 0.564
Production
(million m3)            5.5   6.2   6.2   6.9   9.1   9.9  10.7  11.5  12.4
Total Consumption
(million KWh)           3.7   4.9   4.9  .4.0   3.7   4.3   5.1   5.9   7.0
Price CFAF/KWh          9.8  10.1  10.4  10.7  11.0  11.3  11.6  11.9  12.3
'otal Cost
(million CFAF)         36.4  49.5  51.0  42.8  40.3  49.0  58.6  69.8  86.4



ANNEX 9
Page 6
15.       The cost of "materials" will grow proportionately to gross fixed
assets, and by an additional 3% per year to reflect price increases.
16.       "Administrative and general" cost (costs of Headquarters and center
responsible for Libreville operations, which are allocated to water operations
Libreville) are expected to increase by 10% annually. This figure includes
bad debts which amount to about 0.5% of total annual billing.
17.       "Other" are direct costs of distribution and production (turnover
taxes, billing, etc.); they are expected to rise by 10% annually, to reflect
3% price increases and 7% increases to expanded operations.
18.       SEEG calculates "depreciation" on revalued fixed assets (para. 4
of this Annex). Since it is proposed to use as rate covenant the cash flow
return (paras. 3-5 of this Annex) where depreciation does not enter, the
depreciation was calculated here approximately as it is done by SEEG. The
annual depreciation charge is revalued by 3% p.a., to which depreciation of
3 1/2% on additional gross fixed assets (g.f.a.) is added.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Depreciation
Year              1971  1972  1973  1974    1975    1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
…-----------------      -CFAF million ---------------_----___
Annual Charges   104   110   119   125  (134+70)/1  277   303   313   323   346
= 204
Revaluation
Index              3%    3%    3%    3%        3%        3%    3%    3%    3%    3%
Revalued Depre-
ciation           107   114   123   129       207       283   312   322  .333   356
Addition to
Gross Fixed
Assets            100   150    50    50   4,000         570    30    30   370    40
Additional
Annual Deprecia-
tion 3 1/2% on
Additional
g.f.a.              3      5     2      2      70/1      20     1      1    13      2
/1   Since works will be operational by mid-1975, the depreciation on addi-
tional g.f.a. for 1975 and 1976 is 1.75%.
B2. Cash Flow Statements (Annex 11)
19.       Under the concession agreement, SEEG is allowed to, and has in
fact in the past, used its cash flow generated by Water Supply Division
Libreville (WSDL) for other operations:
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972
… ----------CFAF million----- …
"Transfer to other operations"               9     46      60     81      84
For the future, however, SEEG has agreed to the following compromise: (i)
it would be allowed to retain that part of the future cash flow of WSDL which
has already been committed for debt service for previous loans; but (ii) over
the coming years, it would make available an increasing percentage of the
cash flow of WSDL for water supply investments. The part already committed
has been calculated as follows: the debt service for all loans to SEEG and
SEEG's contribution for investments approved at end 1972 was divided by
SEEG's total future cash flow from water and power operations:



ANNEX 9
Page 8
1973    1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Percentage of SEEG's
Total Future Cash Flow
Already Committed               90%     60%   50%   30%   30%   25%   20%   15%
Under the assumption that equal percentages had been committed from the fu-
ture cash flow WSDL (excluding the cash flow from the new project), SEEG should
be allowed to use that part of the cash flow WSDL for other than water opera-
tions:
1973    1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
-------------------…CFAF million----------------
SEEG Cash Flow WSDL
(excluding cash flow
from project)                  112     107   112   111   115   119   113   117
Percentage Already
Committed for Other
Operations                      90%     60%   50%   30%   30%   25%   20%   15%
Transfer for Other
Operations                     100      64    56    33    34    30    23    17
20.       The part of SEEG's cash flow from WSDL which would not be trans-
ferred to other operations would serve to service part of the project debt
until the surcharge revenues would be sufficient to do so in 1982 (para. 6.06
of main report), and in addition serve to finance: (i) future extensions of
the distribution system, (ii) the extension of the treatment plant in 1979,
and (iii) a reasonable proportion of a new project expected to be nlecessary
in 1983/84.  These financial participations of SEEG in assets of the Municipal-
ity are assumed to be interest-free loans to the tmunicipality. It cannot be
expected that all these loans could be paid back from the Municipality's
surcharge before 1990, on termination of the concession agreement. However,
SEEG would then have to hand over - at least according to concession agree-
ments elsewhere - to the Municipality the renewal fund from which SEEG's loans
to the Municipality were financed, so that mutual obligations would Just be
cancelled.
21.       "Renewal works" are assumed to be about CFAF 15 million annually
until 1975, CFAF 20 million until 1978, CFAF 25 million in 1979 and 1980.
Extension of the treatment plant in 1979 is assumed to cost about CFAF 340
million. Distribution extensions will be financed until 1976 under the proj-
ect and are therefore not listed below for these years.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
…-CFAF million---------------
Renewal                15    15    15    15    20    20    20    25    25
Treatment Plant &
Distribution
Extensions              -      -     -     -      -    30    30   370    40
22.       The "Government" would allocate in its budget CFAF million 350, 350
and 500 in 1973, 1974, and 1975, respectively and transfer these amounts to
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement du Gabon, which would disburse on all
project items 26% pari passu with CCCE and the Bank.
23.       The cash accumulated until 1980 and thereafter would be used to
help finance the next project expected to become necessary in 1983/84 (see
para. 20).
B-I. Debt Schedule (Annex 12)
24.,      Interest, amortization and debt ar, listed for loans made to SEEG
and the Municipality of Libreville.
C.   Power and Water Operations in Gabon
Cl. Consolidated Income Statements (Annex 13)
Operating Statistics and Projections
2').      Power and water connections are expected to increase by 12% in 1973,
the rate of increase dropping by 1% until 1977.
20,       "Power sold" increased in the past and is cautiously expected to
increase in the future as follows:
…-----Actual-------    ----------------…           Projected-----------------…
1968  1969  1970  1971    1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
18%   19%   26%   16%      15%   15%   14%   14%   13%   12%   11%   10%   10%
27.       Total "Water sold" increased in the past as follows:
1968      1969       1970       1971
20%       23%        23%        22%



ANNEX 9
Page 10
"Water sold" in future years is the sum of "Water Sold" in Libreville, shown
in Annex 10, and "Water sold" elsewhere in Gabon, expected to increase as
follows:
1972    1973    1974   1975   1976  1977   1978   1979   1980
15%     14%      13%    12%    11%   10%      9%     8%      8%
Operating Revenues
28.       "Water billings" are the product of water sold times average water
rate of CFAF 57.55/m3 in 1971, which is expected to increase by 3% annually.
29.       "Water investment surcharge" is levied only in Port-Gentil and
Libreville. The surcharge revenue of CFAF 29.7 million collected in Port-
Gentil in 1971 is projected to increase with water sales in that city, i.e.
at 9% in 1972, decreasing by 1% annually to 7% in 1974. Projections of the
surcharge revenues levied in Libreville are explained in para. 10 of this
Annex.
Water Surcharge
(CFAF million)
1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Port-Gentil          30    33    35    37    40    46    43    49    52    56
Rate of Increase
(%)                      10     9     8      7     7      7     7     7      7
Libreville           60    70   100   130   178   265   288   312   337   364
Total Water
Surcharge          90   103   135   167   218   308   334   361   389   420
30.       "Power billings" are the product of power sold times average power
rate of CFAF 18.2/KWh in 1971 which is not expected to increase.  An expected
increase of the rate for private power consumption will be balanced by a
rate decrease for industrial power consumption. SEEG intends to lower the
latter rate to make it competitive with power systems owned by industries.
31.       The revenue from the "power investment surcharge" is expected to
grow at an average of only 10% annually; this is less than the increase in
power sales, because the portion of power consumption which is surcharged is
expected to increase slower than the rest.
32.       "Other" operating income, consisting mainly of revenues from monthly
maintenance charges, will increase by the same percentage as the number of
connections.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
Operating Expenses
33.       "Personnel" costs increase by 10% annually, to reflect a 5% increase
il the number of staff employed and a 5% increase in salaries (3% for prices,
2% for promotion).
34.       "Materials" increase proportionately to the increase in power and
water revenues. The exception is in 1973 when CFAF 130 million will be saved
when a new hydroelectric scheme (Kinguele) becomes operational, and in 1975-
7B whea CFAF 60 million is added annually to take account of operations of
the Libreville power plant during the dry season when Kinguele will be unable
to cover demand.
Material Consumption
1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Increase                   15%   15%   14%   14%   13%   12%   11%   10%   10%
-     -----…cFAF million ------                   --        -
Variations           620   713  (820)  787   897 1,013 1,134 1,259 1,385 1,523
Reduction Due to
Kinguele                      -130
Increase Due to
operations of
Diesel Plant
Libreville                                   +60   +60   +60   +60
Total                 713   690   787   957 1,093 1,194 1,319 1,385 1,523
15.      "Services and supplies" include rent, maintenance, insurance, and
fees, and are assumed to increase at 7% per year. Annual increases of 7% are
also projected for "transport and travel", and for "administrative and general"
expenditures. The latter category includes a provision for bad debts which
are estimated at 0.5% of total annual billing.
36.       "Duties and taxes" are calculated at 7% of the power and water
revenues (excluding surcharges).
37.       "Rechargeable works" (a typical account under the concession sys-
1:em where works for clients are accounted for) increase proportionately to
the number of connections.
38.       "Works for own company" were inflated in 1971 (CFAF 344 million)
due to substantial repairs to the Libreville power plant which was reverted
to standby status at end-1972. In 1974/75, the power plant at Port-Gentil



ANNEX 9
Page 12
will need further repairs. After 1975, a 10% annual increase reflects ex-
tended repairs for older and for other assets, particularly in Libreville
and Port-Gentil, as follows:
1971   1972   1973   1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
CFAF million      344    300    300    315   315   346   381   419   461   507
39.       "Depreciation" consists of (i) the annual provision for renewal,
(ii) depreciation of initial establishment costs, and (iii) depreciation of
the concessionaire's assets. "Amortissement de caducitell is not included in
depreciation, and is accounted for as net income. In the past, the average
depreciation rate (partly calculated on revalued gross fixed assets) was high
(about 6.5% on unrevalued gross fixed assets), reflecting partly high de-
preciation rates for diesel power facilities. To take account of longer-
lasting hydroelectric facilities presently under construction, an average
of 5.5% was applied to the projections. This rate is still considered too
high, but it was adopted to match as closely as possible the depreciation
SEEG is expected to account for in accordance with the concession system.
The depreciation rate is not relevant for the proposed cash flow return
covenant, which excludes depreciation (paras. 3-5 of this Annex).
40.       "Other income" is expected to be constant at the 1971 level, except
in 1972 when uncollectable debt of the administration (CFAF 139 million) has
been deducted.
C2* Balance Sheets (Annex 14)
Assets
41.       "Gross fixed assets in operation" include those financed by SEEG,
by the concession grantor, and by customers, and capitalized costs for ini-
tial establishment.
42.       "Accumulated depreciation" is the sum of (i) the renewal fund, (ii)
the depreciation of the private domain, and (iii) the depreciation of the
capitalized initial establishment costs. Not included is the concession
amortization (caducite).
43.       "Works in progress" for future years comprise:  (i) the Libreville
water supply project; (ii) the Kinguele-Tschimbele hydroelectric scheme; and
(iii) other investments financed by SEEG, the concession grantor, and by
customers. The construction schedule and the transfer to gross fixed assets
is given in Appendix I to this Annex. The first stage of the Kinguele plant
of CFAF 4 billion will be operational in 1972, the second group in 1973, the
third group in 1975, and the fourth group together with the Tschimbele regu-
lation dam in 1978. The other works comprise SEEG's annual investments, the
concession grantor's investments financed on surcharge fund and equalization



ANNEX 9
Page 13
aad compensation funds, and customer's contributions. Two-thirds of the an-
nual construction of other works are expected to become operational during
the year of construction; the rest would become operational in the following
year.
44.       For past years, "inventories"t equal the figures shown in SEEG's ac-
counts after reduction of the amounts for studies in progress (which amounts
were transferred to fixed assets).
Transferred to Fixed Assets
1967  1968  1969  1970  1971
CFAF million    15    25    80    119   129
The "inventories" have in the past been about 80% of annual material consump-
tion; this proportion is expected to be maintained.
45.       "Accounts receivable" include:  (i) bills unpaid by SEEG's customers,
&ad (ii) advance payments on construction works and other deliveries. Unpaid
b:ills are expected to equal two months' billing (16.6% of yearly billings).
The advances are 5% of yearly orders for wo-ks and materials.
415.      "Other" represents deferred expenses which are expected to increase
with the number of connections.
47.       "Long-term receivables" (mainly advance payments on purchases) are
projected to grow proportionately to the number of connections. In 1971, the
actual long-term receivables were inflated mainly due to the inclusion of an
uwcollectable debt of the administration (para. 39 of this Annex). Instead,
C:TAF 100 million was assumed for 1971 as a basis of calculation.
Eqluity and Liabilities
43.       For past years, total equity was calculated by addition of share
capital, concession grantors' and consumers' contributions, funds belonging
to the concession grantors' (compensation account, equalization fund, surcharge)
and funds belonging to the concessionaire (provision for risks and concession
amortization, caducite). Details are shown in Appendix II to this Annex under
columns "as shown in accounts". The concession grantors' contributions were
calculated by subtracting from the concession grantors' investments the loans
made to the concession grantors for these investments.
49.       To reconcile the separation between SEEG and the concession grantors'
finances, the equity was rearranged into: (i) share capital, (ii) contributions
(of concession grantors and consumers), and (iii) accumulated surplus, as
shown in Appendix II to this Annex. However, part of the surplus (as shown in
the rearranged income statement and accumulated for the rearranged balance
slheet) was reinvested and is shown in the accounts as "concession grantors'
contributions". Therefore the contributions "as shown in accounts" do not



ANNEX 9
Page 14
coincide with the "adjusted" contributions after 1967, which were calculated
from total equity under reduction of share capital and accumulated surplus.
50.       "Contributions" are expected to grow with the number of connections.
51.       "Accounts payable" are expected to equal 1 1/2 months' purchases
(12.5% of annual purchases) including cost of works and materials (not in-
cluding Kinguele in 1972, since this was accounted for outside SEEG's book-
keeping).
52.       "Customers' deposits" are expected to increase with the number of
connections, after reduction of an overdue current maturity for CCCE of CFAF
102 million in 1971 which was included in that category.
53.       "Deferred revenues" (advance payments by Municipality on studies,
retirement funds, etc.,) are expected to increase with the number of connec-
tions.
C3. Cash Flow Statements (Annex 15)
54.       Works in progress are summarized in para. 42 of this Annex, and
loan disbursements are given in Annex 16.
C4. Debt Schedule (Annex 16)
55.       At the time of appraisal, SEEG had some 50 loans and suppliers'
credits outstanding, and the concession grantors in addition some 20 loans
and credits for power and water facilities in Gabon which are summarized
separately for SEEG and the concession grantors. The blend of future loans
to finance annual investment programs of SEEG and the concession grantors
were assumed to have somewhat softer terms than in the past, reflectiig less
reliance on suppliers' credits, In addition, the loans for the water supply
Libreville and for the Kinguele hydroelectric power plant were included.
D.   SEEG's cash flow return and debt service ratio (Annex 17)
56.       SEEG's cash flow return and debt service ratio, were calculated
by dividing SEEG's cash generation plus Libreville water surcharge by total
average gross fixed assets operated by SEEG, and by SEEG's debt service in-
cluding debt service for 1WSDL, respectively.  SEEG's cash generation is the
sum of water billings, power billings, and other revenues, minus operating
costs (Annex 13) and net provisions for the equalization and compensation
funds (Appendix III to this Annex).
57.       The Government established in the mid-60's the equalization and
compensation funds to finance expansions and deficits of rural power and
water operations from the profitable urban power operations.  The equaliza-
tion fund for rural power operations is supplied by a 5% levy on SEEG's first
CFAF 10 million low voltage power sales, and a further 10% on the rest of the
low voltage power sales. The equalization fund for rural water operations



ANNEX 9
Page 15
is supplied by a 5% levy on SEEG's power production costs. Both levies have
two effects: (i) to subsidize the rural operations from profitable urban
power operations, and (ii) to levy a Government tax on SEEG. Part of these
taxes, however, are reimbursed to SEEG to cover its deficits in rural centers
which would otherwiso have to be paid directly by the Government in accordance
with agreements between the latter and SEEG. The respective provisions for
these funds and for their corresponding reimbursements as projected by SEEG
are shown in Appendix III to this Annex.






AlNviqx 9
Page 1
GABCN
LIBREVILLE WATER 5UPPLY PROJECT
Power and Water Sector Investment Program
A. Projects under construction or included in the Development Program
1972-1978 and taken into account in the Financial Projections
ESTIMATED     EXPECTED
COST CFAF     SOURCES OF
SECTOR                       PROJECT                    BILLIONT       FI1IANCING
Power            Kinguele I                                h           Government
20 MW hydroelectric plant under                    CCCE - FAC
construction - operational by                      Suppliers'
October 1972
Note: This investment will be taken
over from Governuint by the
SEEG at completion.
Kingu&l1  II                             2           SEEG and
Additional 20 MW stage under con-                  Suppliers'
struction - operational in  1973                   Credits
Kingu6le III - Tchimbel6                 5           To be arranged
Second additional 20 MW stage -
proposed for construction in 1977-
1978 (may be contingent on the
implementation of a wood pulp
mill scheme)
SEEGts annual investment programs:       5.25        SEEG
Diesel power plant  and some dis-.                 OCCE
tribution extensions; 1972-78                      BGD IJ
(included); CFAF 0.75 billion                      Supplierst
per year                                           Credits (to
be arranged)
Power & Water    Production.and Distribution               4.5         Concession
1972-1978 (included) averaging                     Grantors
CFAF o.64 billion per year
/ Banque Gabonaise du D6veloppement.



ANNEX 9
Up x I'
Page z
ESTIMATED       EXPCTED
COST CFAF       SOURCES OF
SECTOR                          PROJECT               BILLICN         FINANCIENG
Power & Water    Power (and water) distribution          2.8           Customerst
averaging CFAF 0.4 billion                         Contributions
per year
Water             Libreville water supply project        4.5           Govemnment
IBRD, CCCE,
SEEG
Total 1972-1978 investment program: CFAF 28 billion (US$110
million) (or about three times the 1971 power and water sector
total assets).
B. Projects under consideration and not included in the Financial Projections j
Power            Poubara-                                4             French
10 MW hydroelectric power sta-                     Subvention
tion in the Franceville - Moanda                   plus others
area (1973/75)                                     to be arranged
Kingu41  - Port-Gentil power          2             To be arranged
transmission line (1973/74)
Water            Port-Gentil new mainland water          4             To be arranged
source (1974/76)
] Because the Poubara power station will be financed from outside resources
and the other two projects are unlikely to be financed in the near future.



ANNEX 9
1DIx I
Page 3
C,,  Financing Conditions
For Kinguel6 I, the Goverrnmet wll pass on to SEW  the servicing of
the debt on reduced tems so that SE1 will make the first amortization pay-
mernt only by 1980. A similar arrangenent is expected for Kingu6l6 III.
Financing of future inveatments by SEED is expected to be 50% from
internal cash generation, 25% from sauppliers' v'eit (five years at 2%) and
the rest from OCCE (ten years at 5%) and BdD.
Financing of the concession grantors' schenes are expected to be
from Government sources and bilateral aid (ten years at 5%). The servicing
of the loans will be from the different investment funds (investment sur-
c].arge fund, equalization fund and com,pensation furd).



ANNEX 9
MFl7ix t
Page 4
L I3BSBRVI LLE WATJL SUPPLY PROJECT
x orks in Progress and Transfer to Fixed Assets
7?72  1973  1971i  1975  1976  1973-76  1977  1978  1979  1980
------------CF.F million----------------------__________-____
1) Project                         10b l,63 2;20i3   ?18   L,570    -           -      -      -
a) Transfer to Gross
Fixed Assets                               ,COO   570  l4,570
b) Works in Progress              10(  1390Q9   152             -
2)       K T              !!,3      0  ';'30   150   550         -     3,0002 0or      -
in-terest dLrng
Construction              ll    2 1    15    50    37        -        027    7            -
a) Transfer to Gross
Fixed Assets           O,0OC   760    -    965,         -           -   5,681
b) Works in Progress        Ll    70   81.5    5C   637         -    3,66)                   -
3) Other Works
SPM  (including
renewal)                   550   950C  825   74h5   895               ,Q  (-(!           3( C (0
Concession
Grantor                    <,3   f c5   790   800   550        - C5o   4'            -
Custosner's Con-
tributions                 370   387   396   4(1   396         -       3C  u15    -        _
17. 3  l9b2  2011 -  9Lc  iSLjl            1J!74    1525   390   300
a) Transfer to g.f.a.
- Rest Investment
Previous Year          JVc 1 594   687      70   G48       -       613   !91   508   130
- 2/3 .Investment
Present Year          11.89  1295  131  1298  1228             -   983  1017   260   20(
b) 'Wrks in Progress
(1 /3 investment
present year)                   64 ('7   660   6!t<   613    -       891   5C8   130   100
- TOTAL TRANSFER TO
ASSES                      53  2(IS  1996  6933  2LW"         -     1596  71899   7'   033
'T-  A    WORKS INT
PROGRF.3S                 Q9 '13 338Bt4          ; 81'2402    -     4U 5   18 1. 498



GABON
LI9BRVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Raarr ar    ont of Equity Accounts for Past Years
As               As               As               As                As
shown    Ad-     shown    Ad-     shown    Ad-     shown    Ad-      shown    Ad-
in       just-       in   just-       in   Just-   in        just-   in       just-
Acets.   ed      Acets.   ad-     Acats.   ad      Acets    ed       Acets.  ad
1967     1967    1968     1968    1969     1969    1970      1970    1971     1971
(A)      (B)     (A)      (B)     (A)      (B)      (A)      (B)     (A)     (B)
EQUITY  S                                                                                                                               Equit-y (B)
SbaT  Capital                                   400       iO     400      400     400      400      572      512     550      550   Share Capital
Contribution of Conoession Grantor              -52)  1,403      826)  1,585      782)  1,811   1,137)  2,061   3,258)  2,850   Contributions
Customer Contrib u ion                        1,455      3       800)             172)            1,148h)
-                                        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                  ~ ~ ~ ~~)  )  )  )         )
Funds Belorging to 'Joncesiou Grantor:                      ) .      )
Composat on Account, Eq.alisation            108)             1473             173               2483             356)
Fund, Surcharge./                                                               173                 )3
Funds Belonging to the Concessionaire               )    296         3    403         )    659          )    998         )  1Ac9lated
Provision for Risks                           28 )-                                              222              249
)                )                )                 )                )
Concessio4i Depreciation (oaduoijt)         160)             196)              244)             304)              378)
TOTAL EQUITY                                      2,092           2388    2,388   2,870    2,870   3,791  TOTAL,791I,791 
1/-                -  8            2-870 from       3571 43.                        HQUITY
1/ Transferxed from Account 43.






G A B 0 N
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Past and Projected Provisions to Equalization
and Compensation Funds
-Past------ --Projected----------
A) Equalization Fund                                 68   69   70   71   72   73   74   75   76   77   78   79   80
-----------__----------(CFAF million)-----------------------
Provision                                     71   85  107  124  136  150  163  176  188  200  208  220  231
Minus reimbursement for deficits of
rural power centers                         49   62   81   89   90  107  117  117  111  106  100   95   90
Net provisions for Equalization Fund         22   23   26   35   L6   L3   h6   59   77   9b  108  125  1i1
B)  Compensation Fmnd.
Provision                                     20   25   65   78   86   95  lo1. 112  120  127  133  14o  1L7
Minus reimbursement for deficits of
rural water centers                           9   14   30   35   44   54   73   75    71   68   6h   61   58
Net provisions for Compensation Fund         11   11   35   4 3   h2  li   31   37   9   59   69   79   89
TOTAL net provision                                  33   3h   59   78   88  8l   77   96  126  153  177  20t! 230
H-






aL   AD AR  sO          P                                       -u-
VA= EfffOM  L=ln
1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       1
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978               1979    1980
t------ --cta-                                   ---       ----          - --- Fort ---__------------------
NO.OF CONNECTIONS        2990    3449    3853    4223    4645    5110          5723    6410               7897    8686       ss         11
TOTAL. POPULATIOtl    6800o    73000   78000    84000    90000   9600    103000   110000                126000   135000  1         10
POPULATION SERVEDO/g  15000    16000   19000    21000    23000   26aRx        3400     38000 440o  O47000m   52000   57000   63ooo
%POPULATION SERVE-/   22            21      24       25        25      27        33    -  34       36       37        38      39       40
VOLUME PRODL6ED ^o#X42523    3375    4177    4688    5491    66180               180    6933    9059    9855   10659   11516   12444
VOLUtE SOLDM (00)    1986    2610          3183    3553    4118    4635    4635    5200    6-7-94    7391    7994           8637    9333
UNACCTED FOP %             21       23       24       24       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25        25
WAu   pRIcf lpAZvh3    491.85   52.11   55.29   58.82   59.84   65.o0    66.95   63.95   71.02   73.15   75.35   77.61   79.94
SB3cHA2S CFAP/MJ       14.10   16.48   16.65   16.89   16.89   22.00    28.00   34.00   39.00   39.0o    39.00    39-00   39.00
_____ -------------------'--------------OFOI-----------
OPERATING REVENUES
WATER BILLINGS             99      136      176      209      246      301      310      359      483      541      602       670      746
28       43       53       60 _     70      102        0      177      26       288      312        7        64
127      179      229      269              1103      440o              TM ...  .2        917 191   W7  -
OPERATING EXPENSE
LABOR                      18       17       18       13       14       15       16       18        26      28        30       33       35
CHEMICALS                   4        2        4        6       10       14       15       10        13      15        17       1°       21
POWER                      17       20       23       26       36       50       51       43        40      49        59       7°       5e
MATERIALS                   4        4        5        4        4        5         5       13       14      15        15       16       17
ADMINIST-GENERAL           13       1ll      17       20       22       214       27       29       32       35      ?I9       43       47
OTHER                      20       2        26       36       57       65 2               78       92     102       112      124      137
~~~~~~80            9R 1 5            l       3173    1 4       lal0   217        24427301 t
INCOME BEF.DEPREC          51       99      1        1164    1173      230      256      345      531      585                 ) 73    i7 
DEPRECIATION               53       69       91      1104     110      119      125s    120l 4             30,       313     -aa  , 0
OPERATING I IICOME         - 414                              10        1                 0        2 -1ZZ.l-2 2
_0                   60  5                     13                                  32  - -    - 4 -(-
INTEREST NIOT CAPIT        24                25     __25       2        40....           161      217      224      211; 0,
NET INCOME                           7       20       35       40       71       TR      -20        3      34 lll             1722
OPERATING RATIO %
(BEFORE DEPREC.)       59.84   44.6S9  40.61    39.03   45.25   42.93   41.82   3;.53   29.02   2).43    29.76   30.19   30.90
OPERATING RATIO %
(AFTER DEPREC.)       101.57   83.24   80.35    77.70   80.06    72.46   70.23   73.69   66.04   65.98    64.00   62.26   62.07
AVERAGE RATE BASE        1734     1773    1793      1796     1814    1799    1727    3588    5632    5642           5364     5246    5117
RETURN ON
AVE.RATE BASE %         -0.12    1.69      2.51     3.34     3.47     6.17     7.59      3.93    4.51    5.00       6.13     7.24     8.23
CASH FLOW RETURN ?/   2.62        4.83     6.33     7.29    7.28      9.15    9.70       7.27    7.40    7.61       8.07    8.38      8.67
B/ B   *ervi   oo. meottons
in I e before d.pr.oi&tLon divided by sveag. grose fi    amsets revauied by 3% p.a. after 1972
March 29, 1973






_OK 11PY                                             ,ANNEX 11
1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8        9                          10       11        12        13
1968     1969      1970      1971     1972      1973      1974      1975     1976      1973-1976         1977     1978      1979      1980
SOURCIE S
INTERNAL CASH GEN.
NET 114COME BEF.INT          -2        30       45        60        63      111       131       141      254         637             282       329      380       421
IDEPRECIATION                 53        69       91       104       110      119       125       204      277         725             303                323       34.6
SUBToTAL                     51        99 1                        173      230       256       3        531        115-5    42                         703       7b7
CONTR [BUT IONS
TRLW.IW   TO 0T!. OMU.       -9      -46       -60       -8I       -84     -100       -64       -56      -33        -253             -34      -30       -23       -17
11M11 G3vWI                   0         0         0        0         0        30      470       590      110        1200               0         0         0        0
SUBTO TAL                  -9    -46           -60           -81  -- 8      -70       l4        5-34      n77       77                34      -30 °     -23       -17
BORRO'1 I NGS
FROJIIT LOUIBllD             0         0        0         0         0       48       862     1070       200        2180               0         0        0         0
PROJRMT IO OGCCI             0         0         0        0         0       22       395       491        92       1000               0         0         0        0
MIR9S LOANS                  3      215       105        27       153         0        0         0         0          0               0         0         0        0
SUBTOTAL                      3      215       105        27       153       70      1257      1561      292    e                      0         0        0         0
TOTAL SOURCES                45  268        18 1         110       22        230     1919 -114f 920!               ) 5489            551     6                    750
APPLICATIONS
CONSTRUCT ION
PROJECT I                     0         0        0         0         0      106      1803     2243       418        4570               0        0         0         0
OSHI!E  mi/                  3      215       105        27       153         0        0         0         0                         30       30       370        40
ANOMIJS                      12        12        15       1         1         15                           20          65             20        20       25        ?5
SUBTOTAL                     15      227       120        42                121     1        28 350                                            50       395
DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION                  6        18       36        43        51       55        59        63        70        247            175       'nil     2.0        147
INTEREST NOT CAP.           24        23        25        25                140        7       161       217         495           271J       215      202       1
SUBTCTAL                     30        41       61        68        7        95       136      224       28 7                       399       399       042 32     1
OTHEF APPLICATIONS
CHANCE IN CASH                0         0        0         0         0       14       -35       -42      179         112            1l'O      l63      -          344
SUBTOTAL                      0                  0 0       0                                                    o                                                  14 -!2   ?75  TT  ?   1lf3
TQTAL, APPLICATION          24       2         181       110      22        930      1919  211540r                                  55?       f                     97
'w0CWUULATEO CASHHV                    -                           r
i   AT ENID OF YEAR    -         0         0         0        0         0       114      -21      -63       112                        214       377       320       6f5
3/g Ii , XeIs4at tao trat plantn is :ue 
kim& d.fiuit i3$ThT5 vU1 to nminL bv4m . o_ °f =GI*                                                                                                        I,
ftFch 29, 1973



LIVThILK                PROJECT
iu  AXD coMuIOI athUnxES
W&a SUPPLI DIVIQ- LI3ETTW
1        2         3         4        5         6         7        8         9       10        11        12        13
1968     1969      1970      1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980
DEBT CALCULATIONS
BORROWINGS
PROJECT LON IID               0         a         O        0         0       48       862     1070       200   o               a         a        0
PR  RTIM 30CGS                0         0         0        0         0       22       395       491        92        0         0         0        0
PRYfIOB LOANS                 3       215      105        27       153         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0
TOTAL BORROWINGS              3      215       105        27      153        70      1257     1561       292         0         0        0         0
AMORTIZATION
PROJET LOAN ID                0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0        0        47       5)        54        5S
P xno7 Lo oz OCCE             o         o0  0    0         0         0        0         0         0        0        -                  (3        66
PRlMOUS LOAS                  6        18       36        4         51       55        59        6        70        1                  23722
TOTAL AMORTIZATION            6        18       36    43            51       55        59   b3            70      17 5     T     14            T1T 10
LONGTERM DEBT GROS
PROJECT LOAN IBRD             0         0        0         0         0       48       910     1980      2180     2133      2003      2029     1971
PBan W LOAN CCU               0         0        0         0         0       22       417      908      1000      94?       H 33      820       754
PR!mOUS LOAUS               342      551       620       604      706       651       592      529       459      383       314       201       290
TOTAL GROSS
LONGTERM DEBT              342       551       620      604       706       721     1919      3417      3639     346'C     3280     3140    .2093
INTEREST
PROJECTLU-AiED               0         0         0        O         0       18        45       107      151       153       155      151       147
PROJET LOAN CCCE             0         0         0        0         0         1       11        33        48       50        47        44       CD
PRTIious LONS              24        23        25       25        23        22       21        21        18       1G        13         7         5
TOTAL INTEREST
NOT CAPITALIZED              24        23       25        25       23        40        77      161       217       224      215       202       1e3
DEBT SERVICE
INCL.INTER.CAPITAL
PRWJCT LOAN IBHD             0         0        0         0         0       18        45      107       151       205      205       205       205
PROJECT LOA  CCCE            0         0         0        0         0         1       11        33       48       107      107       107       107
PRToDsT LOANS               30        41       61        68        74       77        80        84       88        87       07        30        28
TOT.DEBT SERVICE
INC.CAPITAL.INT.            30        41        61       68        74        95      136       224      287       399       399      342       340
March 29, 1973



GABON
LIVTILLE wM  SMPPLY PIDJFCT
s   1ND M  MINIM  CNl&TQ1S                                   AN    13
PM= A*n UA   F tmjMufi RSq nAWU
CONSOLDTID iilcaS sTA2UTS
1       2                                   6 '     7        °        ^'       1  2r1           12       1 3
19f,8    1fisr'J    1)70 1Jj71   1r7?    1' ,,  ,    71;  17        1,7       1'7     2517-    1979    15>1
POsB S.D 10c   !)      64657   73480   87612  100173  100173  100173  100173  100173  100173  100173  100173  100173  100173
dIA MsO  (103 M)        3645    4368    5035    5653    6533    7388    7746    8684   10662   11645   12631   13645   14742
OPERAT1liG REFVFI.-E      --,  _______                           _    _    _    _    _    ___*-_                            ;    _ 
VIATER bILLINGS          177      217      267     325      387      451      487      562      711      800      8911     995    1107
VLM  SnuhR                38       88      68       90      103      135      167      218      308      334     3fl      389      420
POwM BfLfn8             1049    1243    1564    1826    2099    2414    2752    3138    3546    3971    4408    4849    5333
PYWE SCReWn               20       23       32      58       70       77       85       93      103      113      124     136      150
OTMR                     71       76       72      7o1               94      104      1114     125      135      146              170
OPERATING EXPEtlSE
PUSO9EL                  327      388     459      564      620      682      751      826      908      999    1099    1209    1330
NA aIh1A                 328      334      424     620      713      690      ?87      957    1n93    1194    1319    1385    15?3
SUICES AND SM¶IRS        121      184      227     242      258      277      296      317      339      363      388      415      444
TRANSPCt AMD TRAVZ        51       66       67      95      102      100      115      124      133      142      151      162      173
ADMINIST-GEI ERAL         17       23       31       51      55       58       62       67       72       77       82       88       94
DUTDS AND $AXtS          112      130      145     150      174      200      229      262      29f      333      370      402     4150
RECHARMUAZ kRKS          -72      -84    -155       -99    -111    -126    -14n    -154    -168    -182    -1()(,   -212    -229
W FRN A  12 151    -344          -300                15     -346 1785          419 23 z
~~nis r~~ ~~ew o~~s      909    147    12.2                 1590    17U1m             2127      3814   279T4    46
INCOME BEF.DEPREC        556      73T     956    1094    1232                1810    2041                                          1902
DEPRECIATIOtl             7       4233     504     561      72 _   930    1058.   1303    1561    1672    1914    2133    2163
OPEPATING INCOt1E                 4052              533     530      651      752      738      905    1136    1225    1399    1739
OTHER INCOtfE-IIET1/      10       46       18  _ 1        -126       1        13       13       13       13        U       13    13
NET INCOME IIEF.INT      195      351      470      547 404          66       765      751      918    11419    1238    1412    1752
INTEREST tlOT CAPIT       88       95      131     _5 _22A           288               463      520_  _           534      702      634
tlET INCOME              10T               339      393      22O              288                 8      596 3
OPERATItIG RATIO %
(BEFORE DEPREC.)       58.97   55.19   52.27   53.90   55.09   50. 14   49.65   50.52   41.55   117.511   47.09   115.88   145.65
OPERATING RATIO %
(AFTER DEPREC.)        86.35   81.48   77.43   77.54   80.68   79.417   79.n8   82.11   81.12   7n.78   79.35   78.56   75.78
AVERAGE RATE UASE       3727    3985    4620    5042    7929   111877   1181)    !i61)i   17555   17576   19761   21267   19185
RETURN ON
AVE.RATE BASE %         4.96    7.65    9.78   10.57        6.68    5.99     6.37    0;.0      5.i< (le          6.20    C.5p    9.06
I/ In 1972 CFAF 139 milliOn lave bea 4#se4e for uncollectable adinidstration's debt.
March 29, 1973



QiDx
LOW, ASYWMV PHDj3GT
am Am Wommium WMTUKS                                                          Amia 14
MM AND ULTM 2:H "TIONS, OLM
-,E T'S
19"     lw           im       1971        1972    1973         1974    IM            1976    1977          1978    1979        1980
F'IXED ASSETS                 ------------- Act=l - -----------          -    -       -  --------------- -  - 7WOORAlt - --------- -  -------------
------------------
,Rfxs C,                                                     9929    15582       18211    20:12p                  2(rinll   31;)nIl
m  OPERATION         5762      6966       8231                                                  2716P
LESS:DEPRECIATION            i82        211       2523         6                    112,11    1 j it 9  (I r,
___.W       ___"                    2 59    13ig,                                          8213       '),5   .1170      13932    1(fq
.9                                      ZL
NIE7 ',I.' OPERATION                                         7278         '21     13nfl=O    14H80    2r)"ir)   21,9    2111    2C5011   25229    211j"
,:rlf?K IN PROGRESS          290 -_ 578            60.4       464      --a5                  -13 8 4       4 f)    12jin      !l )I,,    lly       121)        1)
FV2                                                                                     o 2    7rT7
SUBTOTAL                                                     7T34  TNnT   777, -7777  7i 7   -7,-7,79                                    27                -7-7
CURRENT ASSETS
--------------------
NVENTGRIES                   257        295        74       1155       570        57r)       r.29       I                              !W
ACCt'ITSRECEIVABLE            392       4 1 3       68        410        599        7ir
CASH.                          311       297        387        274        410        3111     1171       3                    1417
OTHH,q                         118                             16q                   III       I FC        172       il)r      "il        21
10                                          7      21i       21-79      27n7,
SUBT(JA,                                                                                                                                               r r
L--,M Mk XMWVAXW                12                   8         284
TOTAL ASSETS                 5               --7+           9326 --Tg*          1667 _777PT,         23M'l             _77 =l)
EQUITY+LIABILITIES
------------------
I T
-------------------
CAP 1 TAL                     400        4oo        512       550        550        55,           C                                          C,
ACCUMULATED SURP.             403        659        998      1391       1571        L94       233!'    ;,r,;?,      n2l       3r!7      ';.,ii
CONTRIBUTION                  585       1811                 2850       j2         3 6ill     t          "JI(4      r, o o P,  6384      6
SUBTOTAL                     23n        2tiTO     3571       4791        3iol __7131                    " 7       95 1    11551 _711 ,7_0                ___VR21
DE67
------------------
_DNGTERM DEBT GROS          24 50      3186       3598      3857       8931       )612    119411   13929    !JI9711   !73-118    1`7'j    l7nr'
LESS:CURRENT MATUR            243       2j4t        272        529                 1120       1121         )77     12         1320       1
LONG-TERM DEBT-NET                                                      79 2__7772'
2207                 3326       3329                               -3   12952    llrnP    ICn29
CURRENT LIACILIT.
-------------------
ACCOU'NTS PATABLE             igi        215        225        216        36a.       117r       710       532        45,-,      9-19       66         11 7
CUSTOKER DEPOSITS               96       107        117        234        ilig                  i         21)h       22        2                     2 r'!     -11
2,1 1
DEFERRED+DTH.ITEMS            122        252        272        228        257                   32r)      T; 2        311       lljii      01         4 (33
CURRENT MATURITIES            24        341        2          529         8       iiIIn      1121                             132(       1 f,qr-.    11,14t,
654                            1207                 20"l       P7
SUVOTAL                                  915                                                                                   2!) T it                         211?i
7763                15039 --7T71-7 __TTMT -770r    25504                            T
ASt or tow...
4 CAfl ITA. Zr I oN        4 8       50         48         41         6o
1.22      1.56       1.08       0.97                 0.92       1.0c          i 6     1, 3 2     'j. "i Il  2.13
uu



GABON
LIEL E     IIPL    PfiOJZCT
ANNEX 15
POWER AND WaTER OPERATIONS  ABON
CONSMIDATED CAlEi FLOW
(CFAF ujillion)
1        2        3         4        5        6         7        8        9        10        11       12       13
1968     1969     1970      1971     1972     1973      1974     1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980
------- -------Actual--------------   ----------------------------------Forecast------- -…-------------------------------
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASH GEN.
NET INCOME BEF.INT         195      351       470      546      404       6f4      765       751      913     11149    12313    1412    1757
DEPRECIATION               371      33       504       561      102       93n     1         11' 15r,          10'?      1I    213          21r.,
SUBTOTAL                   56r      78i      974      1107     1106      1594    123        2051     ,^7      2,2'1    3152      3r4       391,
CONTRIBUTIONS
JR ClBTIES                182       226      250      789       370       3,       39?g 1403          320        5:I
MM GOVEURENT                 0        0        0         0        0        30       ,        n        11'        0         e
SUBTOTAL                   182      226      250       789      370       41t7     r6f       30'      500       394               7T,      I4'5
BORROWINGS
PMJECOnlawUB                 0        0        0         0        0        70    1257      1'.        297        o         ^ 3                ?
0   ]DAIS FO SEG          134       764      493      359       350       590      675      503       31,      294'      n4         n         4'
OTH.LQSCGOCOS.GRANTOR.  43          215      260       172      863       6os      7sn      300       93'      450       "          4'        0
K3tGJ   LOANS                0        0        0         0        o 390   40        30      13 50     3,0     7n n     20ln r                 n
SUBTOTAL                   177      979      753       531     5603      1670  3152          102737                                  3
OTHER SOURCES
CHG.IN CUR.LIAB.            68      163       40        64       89       1011     285     -120       _2n      535      -230)    -377        79
CHANGE IN CAPITAL            0        0      112        38        0         0         0        n        e         ^        O _                n
SUBTOTAL                    6       163      152       102      78977 -f,'1 ,                          1        535    2')n    -°77          7
TOTAL SOURCES              993     2152     2129      2529     7168      31¶i 1; T37,    f,n0 02'         7 --'         f^7   7 5         3T
APPLICATIONS
CONSTRUCTION
WATER 'IUPPLY PROJECT        0        0        0         0        0       lO      1930     22143     417"                  n        n?
lWUS:                        0        0        0         0    L390       lir0      730)     154       030     3Yr      "'1^         ?         0
INTEREST CAPITALIZ           0        n        0         0       11        211      15        5n0       7       27        17         2        0
OTHER WORKS               14911    11192    1291      1558     1636      1792     131,f     1751     1021,    1           -14'  1  73B        o
ASST IIEPLA(3HET           43       137      100      4 i42      4 147    110      16[-     1^ '4     22       223       2'n      ?nA *
SUBTOIAL                   537     1629     1391      19 3               2 47 --- 4 7Tl7 tr7F  2              9 I1'', l r         390       32'
DEBT SERVICE
AMORTIZATION               191      243      3411      272      529       090     1 1120    11?1      077    ''0r,       32         10'<    151l4
INTEREST NOT CAP.           88       95      131      15        224       28^      37?      4f3       520- n                     _ t  4  702  3114
SUBTOIAL                   279      338      472   425          753      12777   119?    1544'4    ^ 427         27s9R    217_
OTHER APPLICATIONS
CHANGE IN CASH              37      -14        90    -113       136                -5    6 117  133   3314      74r      527,     809      1739
CHG.Ih OTH.CUR.ASS         141      121      181        35      266       133      24^,      16?      133       ho'       ^^         3      214f
OTHER APPLIC-NET            -1       78 _          -           -171        114      13        10       13        13       14,      1f        17
SUBTOIAL                   177     1A5       266       121      231        91      37r0      :3°      53r    TT. n        21      823     2002
TOTAL APPLICATION          993    2152      2129      2529     716       3                                    7.                  616 47
-OTU L  BT SERVICERATIOI/2.03      2.32      2.06     2.60     1.47      1.25      1.22     1.30     1.60      1.53     1.70      1.48     1.80
ACCUMULATED CASH
AT END OF YEAR       !    311       297       387      274      410o      354      1171      338  f 72        11417    19144     2753     41492
/ SKEG's p]m concession grantors' cash generation divided by SESG0' pl.us co_beaien gr&ateors' debt service
Nerch 25', 1973



AINN  16
LIRVIlI  WAT  SUPLY IJEGCT
SING AND CONCZS9ION oRAXTORS
POWER AND WATER OPERATIONS  AkBON
aoNSOIn=TIDLIM 3cuionz
(CIFAl minon)
1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9        10       11        12       13
1968     1969      1970     1971      1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
DEBT CALCULATIONS
BORROWINGS
EqOX£  LOW                    0         0        0         0        0        70     1257      1561       292         0        n
OTL  JQU laR mU;           134       764      493       359       350      590       675      5r5       530       290      220         n
OTH. M  OeM. fAiNS          43       215      260       172       863      c65       750       900      590       4 50      9
INGUILS lQAY                  0        0         0        0     4390        1       2o         1 0      550      300         0         0n  o  _
TOTAL BORRo9tlNGS          177       979      753       531     5503      1670      3452      16         22      3740     2730
AMORTIZATION
PiiiiTULWaS                   0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0      1L0       110       117      1?)'
OTMn   LOWS Ps am          159       198      278       197      368       4132      450      478       49       515       533       5059     117
OTX. PM COWG. 'NANTOS       32        45       63        75      123       270       329      34        37        135      ?93       .I       os
IDKLE W OAN                   0        0         0        0        38      2         341      297       114      192      1:9l       r|g
TOTAL AMORTIZATION         191       24*3*    341       272      529       9-9     1120      112l       ?77     12(6      1320     1695
LONGTERM DEBT GROS
PWJECT lOANS                 0         0         0        0         0       70     1327      2082     3190      3079      2,((     2,149    2725
OTIM 14*35   SnG          1850     2416      2631      2793     2775      2933     3158      3275      3312     37 -7 29041        2295      1077
0n Th    OONC. ~A!TORS    600        770      967      1064     1804      2130     2600      305      323       3255      3009     2725      2223
111GEtL L0AN                  0        0         0        0    4352    '4470    1185 5       4712         4     791 6     r) 72      93      1397
TOTAL GROSS
LONGTERM DEBT             2450      3186     3598      3857     8931      9612   1194,1    13929    148741   17348    19753    17062   15522
'TOTAL INTEREST
ipdfU4UI; A                   0         0        0         0        0        19       56       140      199       609       ?02      195       139
ON[IR lowg Wm  am           67        73      103       114      132       136      152       142       137      1l43      131      115       109
-Th. -FO1 OM. aWUIS          21        22       28        39       57        99      121       146      150       145      150       142       130A
EINEZ LOAN                   0         0        0         0       46        53       63        85        71       I0        63A,    250       210
TOTAL INTEREST
INCLUD.CAPITALIZED          88        95      131       153      235       312      392       513       557      530       551      702       63'4
INTEREST CAPITAL.
jIuOmuZI  WuA                 0         0        0         0       11        214      15        5°       37        27       17         0         0
ItNTEREST CAPITAL.           0         0        0         0       11        24       15        50        37       27        17         0        0
INTEREST NOT CAP.
?IROAT WANS                  O   0               0        0         0       19        569 10            55       208       202      195       189
MM LiANS FM SmG             67        73      103       114      132       136      152       142      137       1)40     131       115       106
iO. FO    NG. 0-  MS        21        22       28        39       57        99      121       1146     150       145       150      142       130
IMMU LOAN                    0         0         0        0       35 2               48        35        3                  31      250       210
TOTAL INTEREST
NOT CAPITALIZED             88        95      131       153      224       298       377      463       520      553       534      702       fi34
ZDEBT SERVICE
INCL.INTER.CAPITAL
FIMM£ B0ARJ0                           0         0        0         0       19       56       140      199       312       312      312       312
OTBU_LOnS FO1 REG          226      271       381       311      500       568      602       620      630       6i89      664      624       524
OM. MU  CONW.  ANTORS       53        67       91       114      180       36G      1450     )192      520       59II      643      623       632
KPIGUWZL OAN                 0         0        0         0       84       3115     4041      382      185       262       252      839       706
TOT.DEBT SERVICE
INC.CAPITAL.INT.           279       338      472       425      764     1301      1512      16314    1534      18146    1871      2398      21714
MArch 29, 1073



GABONT
LI '-Ib-ILLE V''ATER SUPPLY PWJJE T
rEIGa Cash F~low Return and Debt Service Ratio '(Including Wateir Supply Division Libreville)
(CFAF million)-,                 
Pievenues                           19658  1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   19714   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979  1980
VTater Bill ngs                   177    217    267    325    387    457    487    562    711    800    8914    995  1107
Power Billings                   10jA9   12l,3   156L,  1826   2099   2414   2752   3138   3546   3971   4408  14849  5333
Other                              71      76      72     74      814     94    104    114    125    135    1146    157   170
TAbreville 'water Surcharge        28      43      53     60      70    102    130    177    265    288    312    337   364
"ot,al Revenues                     1325   1579   1956   2285   26140   3067   3473   3991   46147  51904   5760   6338  69714
Minus: net provisions
to equalization and
corrpensaticn funds         33      31L    59      78     88      8L      77      96    126    153    177    20L   230
Cperating G'osts           799    909   10147   1279   1511   1590   1785   2084   2327   25145   2794   2994  3278
-as;a  Generation                    193    636    850    928   1041   1373   1611   1811   219,   21496   2789   3140  3466
Cash Flow Return 1/                   8.5   10.0   11.2   10.2   8.16   8.01   8.06   7.23   7.19   7.h6   7.18   7.1   7.56
Debt Service
kater Supply Libreville             30     Li      61      68     7       95    136    224    287    399    399    342   310
Other Loans SEEG                  226    271    381    311    500    568    602    620    630    688    661    624   52L,
Kingu6l&                            0      0       0       0      84    345    401i   382    185    262    252    839   709
rotal Debt Sermice                   256    312    442    379    658   1008   1112   1226   1102   1349   1315   1805  1573
4ebt Serrice Patio                   1.92   2,03   1.92   2.144   1.58   1.36   1. 11   1.147   1.99   1.85   2.12   1.74  2.20
1/ SE'GS cash generation divided by average gross fixed assets operated by SEEG, and revalued by 3% p.a.
- starting 1973
March 29, 1973






GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1972                                   1973                                                1974                                                 1975                                                  1976
J|A|S   O| N D   J   FM    A| M I J   J I A I S  O ° 1N  I D   J I F I M| A I M I I I J I A I S I O  | N   0 D   J   F                                                                      F   M M I  A IM I I  J I A I S I O  | N I D
1. Upper Assango diversion scheme                                                                                                      t
WeirAccess road                                          -  __  __++  '                                                 . 4 - - -                      td      I,ir
Pumping station and power line
Pipeline  .                                                                                                            ...............................................
2. 'N Toum Facilities
Pumping stations andassociated equnpnent               …-------.'---- _                                                                                                                 ---
20,000 m3/day Treatment Pleat                          | _               _          _       -------         +  * -  *_-
3. Transmission Lina 'N Toum  Librevill.
Pipe  supply                                            L          …                                                                  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _
PIpe supPIV  ft----_  _ _ ______+ . _  . _               =          -        _         _     -                                              _     _   pertial reliet ot the mater srorte1se afte
Laying                                                  c-…- --                                    -    -  t-                                                     _                                           nompletion .  the first 12.5 km  f the pipeline
Pipeline routes widening                                                                                              _-
t ul i-eliet oif the -ae  hq w  itts -rPler- on th.
I    tpelino. treat-e  Plant, pumph n  sttion and resOrsOird
4. Storage and distribution
10,000 m3 storage reservoir                            I… _ __                                 _____4-- *- _.vl                                                                           etc
Distribution mains                                                                               -  - -  -- - -        -
5. Distribution axtensions - standpipes - etc.….-_'----+                                                                                                      -
-       Biddin dotn.- t praneresion                                                     Note; Depedidg on the amount of con -trurtior mehnnery put on these jobs, Ppe d.l,-, on and the number of -nt--, thn
-_-_-'Tender period                                                                              works 1, 4, nd Sean he rompleted earlier then shown
- Bid tual-ation
.......   PI n.... d ddnla
_     Mmnfactr, shipping nr mobili-esion period
Con-ttusson Or ereonion ot elnotrisal ane m-h-anioil  ipmentPn
ronimissiooing dstes
W-nd Beok - 6074(3R)






GABON
LIBREVILLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PAST AND PROJECTED WATER PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION
Demand            I                                                                                                                                                            Consumption
m3/day                                                                                                                                                                       20
(production)                                                                                                                                                                    MILLIONS
m3/Year
50,000
45,000 m3/day
Transmission capacity
-d-TREATMENT PLANT
EXTENSION
40,000                                                             -38,000 m /day                                                L .                    . '
Water production capacity                                                                             14
.  *-*.,,  :  NECESSARY DAILY WATER
£               P~~~~RODUCTION CAPACITY
.       BOREHOLES TAKEN;                               (Left Scale)           2
. OUT OF COMMISSION                                                        00 1
30,000                                      _PROPOSED                          _      .                   ._f __
5--4--..--K -10
. ] <  _TOTAL WATER
.o 7  _ _CONSUMPTION
PIPELINE BOOSTER STATION                                                                                                 (RightScide3
20,000                   ("FIRST EMERGENCY SOLUTION")
1800 m3/day.
14000 m3/day
2nd stage N' Toum
10000 m3/ day                 _I
1st stage N' Toum                                                                                                                                     4
1000 springs and               ;;f            .     _                          / 
Boreholes   '                                      _ _  __                                                                            _
EXPECTED SHORTAGE
.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
- - - - - - - - -  ~LARGE
CONSUMERS
o  L   .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _          I                  I                 I +-tt z
1966     1967    1968      1969    1970      1971     1972    1973       1974    1975      1976     1977    1978       1979      1980    1981    1982      1983
f      f     I     -   ACTUAL                       m  go                                               PROJECTED                                        -       g






UB6REWUH V~R_PLY.ow0jm
,MOt*AMWWZAflOU MANT
|   ,xd of Di-et-r 
Deputy General Manager           Deputy Gnel MjPe                                     n,    n
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gtn TramigmI
|Data
services  l     l    ~Ma age       |                 fie                                                          F lu Fiaca ManagerCnutns |w||- Amnsrtvad
Pow    Operarions    L            P Water Op..tio
Engine.,        r                 Engine.,
Se"mn  Semii 1-00j1eo
I                                                                                                                                                                                 I
Hyd,.                                         Opertion Oprpeatti                                                                                         OPerain
Power Plant                                             Sectio                                              Seto                                                    serto
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pa                                                                        ns  H cping|
Warld nank - 6959 12R)



I



BUILT-UP  AREAS                                 (F    OF
ASEAFOFIA  GAREMAtCONGO
GABON                                                                        MAIN ROADS
LIBREVILLE  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT                     .                                         RIVERS O  8A                                     MANOR
,   . :   ...  ,   . w                                         ,   . ,~~~~-- I N E N l I O A   O N D R EN TlC>  , Ms A PE E
SOURCES AND  TRANSMISSION  LINES                                           I                                                 RNTlL 
0                                        i ID                                                                                 0X 
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                   ORAFACRL¶
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 0o               -' -"
..  ,    WA-               A,/V/                        X         'A-    X    ,)                        QW °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nk-d  I
PROPOSED PIPFLIN              N'TOUM   FACILIT ~ ~   P/S//NE    ROPSFOWEl
o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X~1GTREAI1MANT                                                   T ORWA
1-                                                                           S PUMP/N&SFAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ION  odK~g
Xrt Qa iRT ClPW"~Cli   <     ,} Asrl                                           Y                          G /
E X IS T IN G   L A-IIN G
WATER TOWER 
k,,i                                                        r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NoTog      (,N-, A,,F
PEAT BERTh, RRRFEFTFOTOTF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~07






GAB.ON
LIBREVILLE  WATER SUPPLY  PROJECT
LIBREVILLE DISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM
AIRORT 
A      EXISTING  STANDPIPES
C                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  MAINS
PROPOSED  MAINS
=r     - ' 9>L\URBAN AREA WITHOUT INFRASTRUCTURE
URBAN AREA WITH INFRASTRUCTURE
_____PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
:    _, \-  - INTERNATIONAL  BOUPIDARIES
RIVERS
0        U <
K I LOMET ER
p    RONPIPO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q 
0 zx X 03 3 Xt; XF@&__ EDm3RE.ERVOIEBR V <
0   = t;   t   00    0   ;        5     X           2;< SO  m3    ESEV 1 2%(p  
'MA'f,,W GABON



