Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/14/2006 
Report No.:  AC1610
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Mauritania 
Project ID:  P094278 
Project Name:  Second Health and Nutrition Project 
Task Team Leader:  Astrid Helgeland-Lawson 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 28, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 30, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTH2 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (80%);Other social services (20%) 
Theme:  Other human development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
10.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
1.00
1.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [X] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The HNSP overall objective is to strengthen the health system and its capacity to improve 
the health and nutrition status of the population, notably of women, children, and the 
poor, as it will support the implementation of the Government Program for the health and 
nutrition sectors during the period 2006-2008.  
 
HNSP would have the following more specific objectives:  
 
(i) improve access to basic health services in underserved areas;  
 
(ii) ascertain the equitable allocation of resources to underserved areas;  
 
(iii) strengthen the health sector management to raise efficiency; and  
 
(iv) improve and expand community-based communications for improved nutrition.  
 
Progress towards the achievement of these specific objectives would be monitored 
during HNSP implementation   
 
3. Project Description 
HNSP would provide support to priority activities for which there is a financial gap, 
provided that they are consistent with the sector policy and there is agreement on their 
relevance. However, based on lessons learned from past operations, it was deemed 
necessary to pre-identify the entire set of civil works and major goods that would be 
Page  2
supported from the credit. Also, the implementation of the Health Sector Investment 
Project demonstrated that a certain focus on key issues is necessary, thus making possible 
to evaluate outputs in a more specific manner. Focusing on key issues would also allow a 
more substantial contribution to the achievement of MDGs, which is the fundamental 
priority of the country. Lastly, and based again on past experience in Mauritania and 
elsewhere, it was deemed useful to retain a certain flexibility in financing, to monitor 
progress periodically and to plan in a transparent manner depending upon the ever 
evolving situation in the sector (in terms of needs, financing and implementation 
capacity). As a consequence of the above features, activities to receive financial support 
from the credit would fall into two categories:  
 
(i) Civil works and major goods would be identified for the entire duration of the 
operation, and  
 
(ii) Support pertaining to all other disbursement categories would be discussed and 
agreed upon on an annual basis using the annual progress review and operational 
planning process already in place.  
 
The HNSP funding would remain flexible because part of the credit will be allocated on 
an annual basis and also because the totality of IDA funded activities will be reviewed 
every year and adjustments made when and if needed.  
 
The proposed HNSP will provide support focusing on the areas identified below. The 
MOHSA will implement the health package described in paragraphs 4.1-4.4 and SECF 
will implement the community-based nutrition interventions as described in paragraph 
4.5.  
 
4.1 Further develop human resources and improve their geographical distribution.  The 
project would support activities to review staffing norms, train health sector personnel, 
improve the incentive system, and strengthen the sector capacity to manage human 
resources.  
 
•
Review of staffing norms. The project would support review of the staffing 
norms, especially for outpatient facilities and regional hospitals and update the Human 
resources development plan, including (a) measures to decrease the disproportionate 
number of qualified health providers working in the administration and to recruit and 
train administratively qualified personnel, (b) reasonable projections of staff needs and 
growth, and (c) benchmarks for staff redeployment to regions.  
 
•
Training of health sector personnel.  Activities to train essential personnel, such as 
nurses, anesthesiology nurses, midwifes, generalist physicians, general surgeons and 
obstetricians would be supported. Additionally, the project will support activities to train 
the health sector personnel in safe medical waste management.  
 
•
Improvement of the incentive system will be supported to motivate staff to 
discharge quality services, work in remote areas and be responsive to the needs of 
underserved groups.  The incentive system needs to take into account the potential to 
generate funds through cost-recovery but also that facilities in remote areas have low 
utilization rates and should focus, first and foremost, on rendering drugs and services 
affordable and attractive to the poor.  
Page  3
•
Additionally, activities will be supported to strengthen the sector’s capacity to 
manage human resources centrally and at regional level and to harmonize human 
resources development with infrastructure development, estimate the cost involved and 
render the planning process realistic.  
 
4.2 Ensure adequate sector financing and an equitable allocation of resources for the 
poor and for underserved geographical areas. The project would support activities (i) to 
improve the existing process and methods for mobilizing the different sources of sector 
financing and for allocating them more equitably; and (ii) to strengthen measures to 
ensure financial accessibility to health services, increase utilization of services by the 
poorest and most vulnerable, and to rationalize the existing cost recovery system.    
 
•
Mobilization and allocation of sector financial resources. To further 
supportMOHSA's progress since 2003 in improving the annual budget preparation 
process, the HNSP will provide technical and financial assistance to strengthen ministry 
capacity to: (i) prepare the annual updates of the medium-term expenditure framework 
(MTEF) for the sector; (ii) establish criteria for overall budget ceilings and for allocations 
by level of care, region, type of expenditure, etc.; and (iii) organize annual sectoral 
expenditure reviews.  The project will also finance a national health accounts (NHA) 
study.  
 
•
Financial access of the population to health services. Given the increasing 
financial needs of the sector, the stabilizing of available resources for health, and the 
relatively low level of budgeted health expenditures over the last three years, the HNSP 
will support efforts: (i) to subsidize essential health services for the poor and other 
targeted populations; (ii) to organize payment of health services for the poorest and most 
vulnerable populations who are unable to afford subsidized services; and (iii) to help 
those populations interested in and able to establish alternative financing systems 
(mutuelles) at community level to share risks.  In addition, the HNSP will provide 
support for strengthening the cost recovery system, including revising the regulatory 
basis for charging and collecting monies and training facility-level management 
committees.  
 
4.3
Improve health sector management to raise efficiency. This component would 
finance activities: (i) to support ongoing health sector reforms to improve resource 
allocation and program effectiveness; (ii) to promote the sector-wide approach; and (iii) 
to develop the management capacity of health sector personnel at all levels.  
 
•
Implementation of health sector reforms. HNSP would support MOHSA in 
achieving ongoing or proposed reforms supported by the National Health and Social 
Action Policy (PNSAS).  This includes support to reinforcing sector management 
capacity for human and financial resources, reform of the hospital and pharmaceutical 
sub-sectors, development of capabilities for maintaining health facilities and equipment, 
and strengthening health service delivery and outreach in particular.  
 
•
Development of the sector-wide approach. Initiated in 1998 with support from the 
HSSP, the sector-wide process has advanced, and HNSP would provide support to MOH 
in the process of formulating a memorandum of understanding clearly establishing the 
objectives, roles, and relationships of the collaboration.  
Page  4
•
Strengthening of sector management capabilities. HNSP would concentrate 
especially on: (i) enhanced coordination of the planning and budgeting process; (ii) 
increased budget execution through more efficient organization of the procurement 
process and improved financial management; and (iii) development of measures and 
modalities for monitoring and evaluating the programmatic interventions.  
 
•
Monitoring and evaluation. HNSP would monitor and evaluate progress within 
the overall context of: (i) the poverty reduction strategy through achievement of the 
MDGs pertaining to health; (ii) the development of a consolidated sectoral program with 
common measures and procedures for supervising, monitoring, and evaluating results; et 
(iii) the regular submission of project reports on physical and financial results as well as 
periodic supervision of HNSP's key performance indicators.  
 
4.4 Improve the accessibility to quality and affordable health services in underserved 
areas.  This component include activities to (i) improve access to and quality of basic 
health services, (ii) raise demand for services, and (iii) strengthening of the monitoring 
and evaluation of the quality of the services.  
 
•
Construction of approximately 15 health posts in areas of low accessibility to 
public or private health services and rehabilitation of selected primary health facilities 
(health centers type A and B and health posts) that are not operational. The sites of these 
facilities would be chosen based on accessibility criteria, estimated number of population 
in the catchment area, possible existence of specific health problems, availability of 
personnel etc.. New and rehabilitated facilities will benefit from maintenance and 
equipping, including the provision of equipment to ensure effective medical waste 
management.  
 
•
Activities to improve access to and quality of services by: (i) the strengthening of 
outreach activities from health posts, and the revival of the community approach in order 
to ensure improved access to preventive child, maternal and nutrition interventions for 
the population in hard-to-reach areas; and (ii) the improvement of the availability of 
drugs.  
 
•
Activities to raise the demand for health and nutrition services, with emphasis on 
prevention, and to induce behavioral changes conducive to health and nutritional 
improvements; and increase community participation in the management of health 
services and to render health providers more responsive to the needs of the underserved 
populations.  
 
•
Strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation of the quality of the 
servicesprovided through the enhancement of the integrated formative supervision, and 
the revitalization of the monitoring system of the primary health care facilities.  
 
•
Strategies to be supported would include: (i) reduction of child mortality 
primarily by the extension of the Integrated Approach to Childhood Illness (IMCI); (ii) 
reduction of maternal mortality by the improvement of the availability, the quality and 
the utilization of emergency obstetrical and neonatal care; (iii) decrease in the incidence 
of schistosomiasis  (this strategy does not include spraying); and (iv) improvement of the 
nutritional status of children under five years of age and pregnant women, primarily 
through behavioral change and community based activities.  
Page  5
4.5 Improve and expand community-based communications for improved nutrition:  
This component would finance activities to: (i) develop and implement a community-
based nutrition communication strategy, (ii) provide basic essential health and nutrition 
services; (iii) support the application of the salt iodization law in close collaboration with 
UNICEF; and (iv) strengthen the capacity of the SECF to plan, monitor and evaluate 
nutrition communication program implementation.  This will be achieved using 
community mobilization strategies, training of community agents, and interpersonal 
communication strategies supported by group and mass communication strategies. Basic 
essential health and nutrition services refer to essential services that can be provided by 
trained community agents, e.g., micronutrient supplementation, de-worming, and 
distribution of bed-nets (incl. same disposal of chemicals).  Messages about 
micronutrients would typically be included under the communications program to 
mobilize the community and raise awareness about the importance.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will support the construction/rehabilitation of health care facilities in areas of 
low accessibility to public and private health services; the exact location of these 
facilities have not been determined. The sites will be chosen based on accessibility 
criteria, estimated number of population in the catchment area, possible existence of 
specific health problems, and prevalence of poverty. It is expected that the majority of 
facilities will be located in remote rural areas.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt (AFTS2) 
Ms Yvette Laure Djachechi (AFTS3) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The main safeguard issue relates to unsafe medical waste management and its negative 
impacts on public health and the environment. Some negative environmental and social 
Page  6
impacts can also be anticipated as a result of the construction/ rehabiliation of health care 
facilities.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
If left unattended, potential long-term negative impacts could include soil and water 
pollution, air pollution, soil erosion, and loss of vegetation.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The project was designed in the context of Mauritania's health sector strategy, and it was 
determined that this project would be best suited to assist the country in the 
implementation of this strategy.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To address potential environmental and social impacts, the Borrower has approved and 
disclosed (i) the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF); (ii) the 
Medical Waste Management Plan for the Project (May 2005); and (iii) the Resettlement 
Policy Framework (RPF). While the ESMF outlines the environmental and social 
screening process to be applied at the planning stage of construction activities, the RPF 
describes the policies and procedures to be followed in the event of land acquisition, the 
Medical Waste Management Plan recommends activities to be supported by the project. 
Although the Borrower has some experience with the implementation of frameworks and 
environmental management plans, the project will support environmental management 
capacity building measures to ensure the effective implementation of the ESMF, the 
Medical Waste Management Plan, and the RPF.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include the Ministry of Health, health care personnel, sanitation 
workers, municipal waste dump site operators, and private waste collectors, as well as 
representatives of the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment, and their 
decentralized structures. Consultations will take place as part of the implementation of 
the ESMF at the time construction/rehabilitation activities are planned. As regards the 
Medical Waste Management Plan for the Project (May 2005), this has been prepared by 
the Ministry of Health on the basis of the National Medical Waste Management Plan 
(2003) which had been prepared for the HIV/AIDS Project and discussed extensively and 
approved at a national workshop.  
 
The ESMF, RPF and the Medical Waste Management Plan for the Project (May 2005) 
have been disclosed in Mauritania (February 2, 2006) and at the Bank's Infoshop on 
February 8, 2006.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Page  7
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/15/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/02/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/08/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/12/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/02/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/08/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Page  8
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Astrid Helgeland-Lawson 
02/14/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
02/14/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yvette Laure Djachechi 
02/14/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr William Experton 
02/14/2006 
Comments:   
