Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4181 MAU
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Health and Nutrition Support Project) 
 
between 
 
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 23, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4181 MAU 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 23, 2006, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITANIA (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000) (the 
“Credit”) to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)  
per annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 30
 
days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V  —  EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient shall have opened: 
(i) 
an MOH Project Account and made an initial deposit of an 
amount equivalent to $60,000 thereon; and 
(ii) 
a SECF Project Account and made an initial deposit of an 
amount equivalent to $20,000 thereon.  
Page  4
-
3
-
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI   
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister at the time responsible 
for Economic Affairs. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development 
 B.P. 
238 
 Nouakchott 
 Islamic 
Republic 
of 
Mauritania 
 
Cable: 
 
   Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
MP Nouakchott  
 
840MTN 
(222) 525 4617 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
1 202 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
 
By /s/  Tijani Ould M. E. Kerim 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the health system and its capacity to 
improve the health and nutrition status of the population, notably of women, children and 
the poor. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1: Support the development of human resources and improve their 
geographical distribution, including through: (i) strengthening management and 
development of human resources; (ii) improving coordination mechanisms; and 
 
(iii) strengthening management and content of training. 
Part 2: Support to sector financing and allocation of resources for the poor and 
the underserved geographical areas, including through: (i) improving process for 
mobilization and allocation of financial resources; and (ii) improving financial access to 
health services, utilization of health services by the poorest, and cost recovery system. 
Part 3: Support to increasing efficiency of health sector management, through:  
(i) promoting a sector wide approach; and (ii) strengthening management capacity, 
monitoring and evaluation. 
Part 4: Support to improving accessibility to, and demand for, quality and 
affordable health services in underserved areas, through: (i) improving access to and 
quality of basic health services; (ii) raising demand for services; and (iii) strengthening of 
the monitoring and evaluation of the quality of services. 
Part 5: Support to improving and expanding community-based communications 
for better nutrition, through: (i) developing and implementing a community-based 
nutrition communications strategy; (ii) improving access to basic essential health and 
nutrition services; (iii) supporting the application of the 
Recipient’s decree no. 034/2004 
of April 28, 2004, on the obligation to iodize salt intended for human and animal 
consumption; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of the SECF. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the following structures within the 
Recipient’s 
MOH with functions as set forth in subparagraphs (a) through (g) as further detailed in 
the Project Implementation Manual, at all times during Project implementation. 
 
(a) 
The Secretary General of the MOH shall be responsible for the oversight 
and strategic coordination of Health Subprograms, including: (i) the overall coordination 
of the activities included in Health Subprograms; (ii), the coordination among all 
Directorates within the MOH; (iii) the coordination with the Recipient’s crosscutting 
ministries; and (iv) the consultation and coordination of the Technical and Financial 
Partners. 
 
(b) 
The Directorate of Financial Affairs (
Direction des Affaires Financières
)
of the MOH (the DAF) will assume the responsibility as coordinator for the proceeds of 
the Credit and shall be responsible for overall administrative and financial management 
of Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Project.  The DAF will manage the budget allocated to the 
MOH for the implementation of Health Subprograms and will ensure financial 
coordination of Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Project through regular supervision and audit of 
all administrative, financial, accounting, and procurement operations. 
 
(c) 
The Directorate of Planning, Cooperation and Statistics (
Direction de la 
Planification, de la Coopération et de l’Information Sanitaire
)
of
the MOH (the DPCIS) 
shall be responsible for consolidating planning and programming Health Subprograms, 
and for ensuring their adequate monitoring and evaluation.   
 (d) 
The 
MOH
’s Technical Directorates will be responsible for the 
development and technical implementation of their respective Health Subprograms. They 
will also provide technical support to the decentralized levels. 
 
(e) 
The Regional directorates of the MOH (
Directions Régionales pour la 
Promotion Sanitaire et Sociale
)
will be involved in the financial and technical 
management of the Project. They will provide technical supervision and support for 
activities being carried out as part of its Health Subprograms and those of the Health 
Districts (
Circonscriptions Sanitaires de Moughata
)
placed under its authority.  
Page  8
-
7
-
(f) 
The Health Districts, under the responsibility of a district health team, 
constitute the first level of implementation of Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Project based on 
local needs and priorities.   
 
(g) 
A memorandum of understanding dated April 17, 2006 has been signed 
between the MOH 
and the Recipient’s State Secretariat for Promotion of Women 
(
Secrétariat d’Etat à la Condition Féminine
)
(the SECF) pursuant to which the SECF 
shall be responsible for the implementation of the improvement and expansion of the 
nutrition activities at the community level, through the implementation of Part 5 of the 
Project.  
B. Implementation 
Arrangement
2. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual, the Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Procedures Manual and the memorandum of understanding referred to in Section I,  
Part A, paragraph 1 (g) above and, except as the Recipient and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Each year, the Recipient shall develop an Annual Action Plan, which shall 
include a budget for its implementation, in accordance with the procedures described in 
the Project Implementation Manual and the Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Procedures Manual, based on the draft Subprograms prepared by each entity involved in 
the implementation of the Project (each an Implementing Entity). 
C. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Implementation of Subprograms 
4. 
No proposed Subprogram activity shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit unless the Recipient has determined, on the basis of the guidelines 
and the criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and the Administrative, 
Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual, that the following eligibility criteria are 
satisfied, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(a) 
such Subprogram activities are included in an Annual Action Plan which 
has been approved by the Technical and Financial Partners, a Fiscal Year Confirmation 
for the Fiscal Year of such Annual Action Plan has been signed by the Association and 
notified by the Association to the Recipient, all in accordance with, and subject to, the 
provisions set forth in detail in the Project Implementation Manual;  
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
the Implementing Entity has established appropriate governance and 
implementation arrangements and secured adequate technical, financial management and 
procurement capacity to implement the proposed Subprogram activities in compliance 
with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and the 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual, or has adopted a specific, 
time-bound plan of actions satisfactory to the Recipient, to strengthen its capacity; and 
(c) 
the Implementing Entity has made adequate provision for carrying out an 
adequate evaluation of annual performance during the subsequent year, including 
evidence that such evaluation has been performed as part of a participatory process 
involving, 
inter alia
,
the community, the local authorities and the Technical and Financial 
Partners. 
D. Safeguards
5. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the Recipient
’s 
Environmental and Social Management Framework dated December 2005 , Resettlement 
Policy Framework dated April 2005 and Medical Waste Management Plan dated  
June 2005 and, except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following, as further described (
inter alia
 with base line 
and target values) and completed in the Project Implementation Manual): 
(i) 
Number of intersectoral coordination meetings for the 
management of human resources for health; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) 
Number of MOH integrated supervision with the participation of 
the Directorate for Human Resources; 
(iii) 
Percentage of personnel’s files updated; 
(iv) 
Annual revisions of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework; 
(v) 
Number of operational health 
mutuelles
;
(vi) 
Percentage of health management committees trained; 
(vii) 
Rate of production of monthly reports; 
(viii) 
Holding of the annual review of the health sector program; 
(ix) 
Percentage of pregnant women to receive 2 doses (one in the 
second and one in the third trimester) of sulfadoxine-
pyrimethamine (SP); 
(x) 
Rate of pre-natal consultations in 4 
`
that practice “
forfait 
obstétrical
”; 
(xi) 
Rate of mass treatment of schistosomiasis; 
(xii) 
Knowledge and practices of exclusive breast feeding for the first 
six months; 
(xiii) 
Vitamin A coverage in post-partum women and children under 
five; and 
(xiv) 
Knowledge and consumption of iodized salt. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than June 30, 2010. 
Page  11
-
10
-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one month after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Page  12
-
11
-
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b) Direct 
Contracting 
 
(c) 
Limited International Bidding 
 
(d) 
Procurement From United Nations Agencies 
 
(e) 
Procurement through Procurement Agent 
 
(f) Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) 
Quality Based Selection 
 
(c) Individual 
Consultants 
 
(d) 
Selection of UN Agencies as Consultants 
 
(e) 
Use of Nongovernmental Organizations 
 
(f) 
Single Source Selection 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for works
 
procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, each contract for 
goods procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract for goods and works 
procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and each contract 
for consultants’ services procured on the basis of Single Source Selection.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1)  Health Subprograms 
for the implementation of 
Part 1 of the Project 
(Development of Human 
Resources and 
improvement of their 
geographical distribution) 
(goods and services) 
1, 050,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and  
100% of local  
expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
Page  14
-
13
-
Amount of the  
 
Financing Allocated          Percentage of  Expenditures 
 
Category 
(expressed in SDR
)
to be Financed
(2)  Health Subprograms 
for the implementation of 
Part 2 of the Project 
(Sector financing and 
equitable allocation of 
resources) (goods and 
services) 
 
840,000
100%
of foreign 
expenditures and  
100% of local  
expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
(3)  Health Subprograms 
for the implementation of 
Part 3 of the Project Sector 
management efficiency) 
(goods and services) 
 
520,000
100%
of foreign 
expenditures and  
100% of local  
expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
(4)  Health Subprograms 
for the implementation of 
Part 4 of the Project 
(accessibility to and 
demand for quality and 
affordable services) 
(works, goods and 
services) 
 
1,740,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and  
100% of local  
expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
(5)  Nutrition 
Subprograms for the 
implementation of Part 5 
of the Project (Nutrition 
community-based 
communication) (works 
goods and services) 
 1,040,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and  
100% of local  
expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
(6)  Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
420,000
100%
of foreign 
expenditures and  
100% of local  
expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
(7)  Unallocated 
 1,390,000
AMOUNT  
7,000,000 
 
======= 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing October 15, 2016 to and including 
April 15, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing October 15, 2026 to and including 
April 15, 2046 
 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual” means the 
Recipient’s manual containing financial, administrative and accounting 
procedures applicable to the implementation of the Project, as such manual may 
be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association, and such term 
includes any schedule to the Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Procedures Manual. 
2. 
“Annual Action Plan” means the Recipient’s annual action plan for the 
implementation of the Program (as hereinafter defined) in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Technical and Financial Partners (as hereinafter defined), 
including the Association, and duly approved by the appropriate authorities in 
accordance with the Recipient’s laws and regulations. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
4. 
“Foreign Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
6. 
“Health Subprogram” means a set of eligible activities in the areas set out in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, which are included in an Annual Action Plan for 
the implementation of Parts 1, 2, 3 or 4 of the Project. 
7. 
“Local Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, 
that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency 
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be Foreign Expenditures. 
8. 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health (
Ministère de la Santé et des 
Affaires Sociales
). 
9. 
“Nutrition Subprogram” means a set of eligible activities in the areas set out in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, which are included in an Annual Action Plan for 
the implementation of Part 5 of the Project. 
Page  18
-
17
-
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 18, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Program” means collectively the strategy derived from the National Health and 
Social Action Policy (2005-2015) adopted by the Beneficiary’s Council of 
Minister on November 23, 2005 and, to the extent it is under the responsibility of 
the SECF, the strategy derived from the National Nutrition Development Policy 
(2005-2010) adopted by the Beneficiary on December 14, 2005, referred to in the 
letter dated February 6, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association. 
13. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the guidelines and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association to be used for the purpose of implementing the 
Project, in the administrative, financial management, procurement, monitoring 
and evaluation areas, and other provisions related to the institutional 
organization, as such guidelines and procedures may be amended from time to 
time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedule to 
the Project Implementation Manual. 
14. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on May 19, 2005 and on 
behalf of the Recipient on May 31, 2005. 
15. 
“SECF” means the Recipient’s ministry of women (
Secrétariat d’Etat à la 
Condition Féminine
). 
16. 
“Subprogram” means a Health Subprogram for the implementation of 
 
Parts 1, 2, 3, or 4 of the Project or a Nutrition Subprogram for the 
implementation of Part 5 of the Project, as the case may be. 
17. 
“Technical and Financial Partners” means collectively the donors and other 
partners involved in the provision of financial or technical support to the 
Recipient for the implementation of the Program.  
 
Page  19
-
18
-
