Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7274
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 821-SO)
June 6, 1988
Institutional Development, Training and
Technical Assistance Division
Eastern & Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and tay be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.) - 100 cents
US$1                =  So.Sh. 90
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
USA.
Oihe nd owt.cSEVCEW
Opffatuwe EvIIUIMt^n
June 6, 1988
MEMDRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Somalia - First Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 821-SO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Somalia - First Technical Assistance Project (Credit
821-SO)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
l           ~~~~~of their official duties Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzstion.



FOR OFFICIJ, USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
SOMALIA - FIRST rECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 821-SO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................                                     i
BASIC DATA SHEET .................i
HIGHLIGHTS ........................iv
I.    INTRODUCTION             ....................                  1
II.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION              ...........                   2
Background                                                2
Project Identification ..........................         3
Objectives                                                4
III.  DESIGN, PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION            5
Design                     ....                            5
Organization and Procedure                                 6
Processes                                                  6
Disbursements                                              7
IV.   EVALUATION              ....................                   8
Justification                  ....                        8
Objectives ...........................                     8
Design        ....................................***     10
Implementation ........  *...     ...........1.......*    11
Evaluation of Sub-Projects         .......................  15
Terms of Reference ......      ........... .. ...  .      16
Implementation .*..         ............................  17
Supervision ......*.......................                18
V.    CONCLUSIONS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE  ...........       19
Suggestions for the Future .......................        21
VI.   POSTCRIPT ......23
ANNEXES
I.    Summary Issues/Problems Relating to 281-SO Project
Implementation and Management
II.   Sub-Projects Financed Under Credit 821-SO
III.  Description and Evaluation of Sub-Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 821-SO)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of Credit 821-SO to the Govern-
ment of Somalia. The Credit was approved in June 1978 and declared effective
in August 1979. Disbursements were closed in December 1984.
The PCR was prepared by the Bank's Africa Regional Office on the
basis of information available in Washington. The report presents a factual
review of the Government's use of the credit proceeds and of its efforts to
achieve the objectives of the Credit.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Depart-
ment (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion
Report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 821-SO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal             Actual or
Item                     Expectation        current estimate
Total project cost (US$ million)          3.8                     3.8
Underrun or overrun (Z)                                            *
Credit amount (US$ millions)               3.0                    3.0
Disbursed                                                   2.65
Cancelled                                                     .35
Repaid                                                      0.0
Outstanding                                                 2.65
Date physical components completed                               N/A
Proportion completed by above date                                NIA
2 of time underrun or overrun                                    N/A
Economic rate of return                                           N/A
Financial performance                                            N/A
Institutional performance                                  Unsatisfactory
* Project was neither scaled up nor down.
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original    Revisions    Actual or
estimate
First mention in f;.les or timetable                             02/23/1976
Government's application                                        02/23/1976
Negotiations                                                     04/19/1978
Board approval                                                   06/06/1978
Credit agreement date                                            06/30/1978
Effectiveness date                                               08/01/1979
Closing date                         12/01/1981   06/30/1983   12/31/1984
Borrower                       Somali Democratic Republic
Executing Agency               Ministry of National Planning
Fiscal year of Borrower        January 1 to December 31
Follow-on project name         N/A



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month,    No. of   No. of    Date
Sent by      Year      weeks    persons   of Report
Identificatior     Progrems       02/76                 1      02/23/76
Pre-Appraisal      Programs       08/77                 1      08/16177
Appraisal          Programs       11/77                        12106177
Supervision I      Program        09/79       1         1      10/12/79
Supervision II     Programs       09180       1.5       1      10/24/80
Supervision III    Programs       10181       1.5       1      10/22/81
Supervisinn IV     Programs       03/83         .5      1      04/02/83
Completion         EAPIT          11/86       9         2



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 851-SO)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       A shift in Somalia's economic policy in 1976 began . transition
from a centralized economy to a more open economic system and opened the
way for a considerable increase in capital inflows. (Paras. 2.3 and 2.4)
2.        However, Somalia faced major absorptive capacity problems because
of deficienc'e. in infrastructure, institutions and manpower. Too few
projects were available for financing, many train-ad and educated Soimalis
had emigrated and the war with Ethiopia strained financial and management
resources. (Para 2.5)
3.       The Project was designed as a line of credit to finance 'high
priority studies and other projects of technical assistance .... designed
to assist in the planning and implementation of its (Somalia's) program of
economic development'. The project description was amended in 1982, on the
initiative of IDA, to allow the use of credit funds for 'technical
assistance designed to assist ...... in macro-economic management". (Paras.
2.6 - 2.8)
4.       Apart from financing a program of project preparation studies, the
project aimed at expanding the capacity of Somalia's institutions to
execute preinvestment work; this included training programs for staff in
line ministries and agencies. (Para 2.9)
5.       The Technical Department of the Ministry of National Planning,
assisted by a UNDF financed Planning Team, had primary responsibility for
implementing the Project. A Project Review Committee, consisting of Somali
officials and the Bank and UNDP Resident Representatives, was charged wIth
'general supervision of the projcct'. A central feature was tha appointment
of an expatriate Senior Project Adviser to assist the Director of the
Technical Department. Later, a Senior Economic Adviser to the Ministry of
Finance was added to assist in macro-economic management. (Paran. 2.10 -
2.13)
6.       Sub-projects to be financed were to be of high priority and
approved by the Project Review Committee. The Credit would finance Lp to 83
percent of the cost of the study. However, the exact roles of the different
entities involved in project implementation were not clearly defined. There
was also considerable flexibility in the use of project funds, which ir
turn required a high level of coordination. (Paras 3.1 - 3.8)
7.       The Project was well justified tPara. 4.1) but its objectives were
never clearly spelled out (Para. 4.2). Nevertheless, and despite serious
delays, the Project ultimately financed useful sub-projects, some of whicL
were pursued through financing from IDA or other sources. It is not clear,
however, if all sub-projects were of high priority (Para. 4.3). The Project
achieved little in terms of institution building despite the evidence of



institutional weaknesses; this failure was mainly attributable to the
performance of the Senior Project Adviser who did not carry out his
training responsibilities (Paras. 4.5 and b.6).
8.       The design of the Project did not identify the tasks and roles to
be performed with sufficient clarity. Nor did it take account of the
fragility and weakness of Somali institutions or the lack of indigenous
manpower capabilities which were, in addition, being continuously eroded by
the decline in the real value of civil service salaries. As a result the
design placed heavy responsibilities on the Senior Project Adviser which he
lacked the experience to carry out effectively. (Paras 4.7 - 4.10)
9.       Design problems resulted in apparent confusion during project
implementation. Brotracted debates and problems arose, particularly with
respect to the priority of different sub-projects, terms of reference for
consultants and the selection of the consultants. Manpower problems, such
as the replacement of the Director of the Technical Department three times
in the first two years of the Project, and the general malaise in the civil
service, added to the delays and omissions and made the institutional
arrangements, including the Project Review Committee, difficult to
implement. (Paras. 4.11 - 4.15)
10.      The key to the success of the Project was the performance of the
two Senior Advisers. Agreement on the appointment of the Senior Project
Adviser was reached after one year of discussion. However, the Government
changed its mind at the last minute and proposed a candidatq who, in the
judgement of IDA, was inappropriately qualified and experienced. IDA
nevertheless agreed in the interest of getting the project under way. The
Adviser's lack of experience did, however, prevent him from performing his
tasks adequately especially with regard to training, which remained almost
totally unaccomplished. As a result much of the Adviser's responsibility
for project implementation fell on IDA which ultimately managed the
project. (Para. 4.17) The Senior Economic Advisor also faced severe
problems; he resigned after four months citing ill health and lack of
cooperation from the Ministry of Fiance. The evidence suggests that he was
unable to adapt to the difficult working and living conditions on Somalia.
The Adviser as ultimately replaced, but there is little relevant material
to substantiate his performance although his work has been consistently
praised by Ministry officials. (Para. 4.18)
11.      All sub-projects financed under the Project, with one ecception,
facilitated IDA financed projects either in progress or proposed. As
preinvestment activity it was successful, but in terms of its secondary
objective, strengthening Somali project preparation capacity, it was not.
All studies were carried out by foreign consultants without local
participation and TORs never included any training component. For this and
other reasons the institutional development process never occur.ed. (Para.
4.20)
12.      Sub-project implementation also encountered problems. Proposed
terms of reference were subject to minor or wholesale changes and additions
recommended or suggested by IDA. (Paras. 4.22 and 4.23) Lack of
understanding of the Bank's consultant selection procedures and processes
led to delays and disputes (Paras. 4.24 - 4.26). There was confusion and
lack of definition of supervision responsibilities both on the Government
side (Para. 4.27) and withir the Bank (Para. 4.29).



- vi -
13.      Somali authorities were not much better equipped to handle project
prepazation activities at the end of the Project than before, but an array
of useful studies, surveys and technical assistance projects had been
carried out. Whether all the sub-projects were of high priority is not
clear, although those involved agreed that they were. The Project would,
however, been totally ineffective without constant assistance from IDA in
every aspect of implementation, in some cases to the point of imposition of
IDA views, i.e. in sub-project selection. These problems are traceable to
the project design which was simply transposed from a previous Credit to
Sudan for similar purposes, the only difference being the inclusicn in the
design of the position of Senior Project Adviser in place of a Project
Preparation Unit. (Para. 5.1)
14.      The objective of strengthening of project preparation capabilities
through training was essentially ignored or disregarded or may have been
unfeasible. This failure was due to the ineffectiveness of the Senior
Project Adviser, inadequate provision for training in TORs, lack of a
training survey and a training plan and the inattention of IDA to
institutional development objectives and training. Inevitably IDA ended up
with much too great responsibility for the administration of the project --
and its outcome. (Para. 5.2)
15.      For the future it is suggested that institutions do not transfer
as easily as hardware and that the design, therefore, take local
circumstances explicitly into account, that the general project objectives
be complemented by more specific design, especially with regards to
training components (Para. 5.4). Coordination problems should be avoided
through clear allocation of responsibility and accountability both within
the Bank and the Government, including clear specification of the roles to
be played by the different actors (Paras. 5.5 and 5.6). The consultant
selection process should be the subject of a comprehensive training program
geared towards project preparation %Para. 5.7).
16.      Following a request for a secend credit to finance additional
studies IDA insisted that it could not make available a line of credit for
studies without a strong institutional development component. It also
concluded, on the basis of the findings of several missions, that key areas
in this respect were, (i) aid coordination and development planning, (ii)
economic management, and (iii) preject preparation. The Ministry of
National Planning, for its part, had concluded, however, that it did not
need further assistance in improving the planning system from either IDA or
any other source of external assistance; the Government and IDA, therefore,
agreed that there was no basis for further negotiations. (Para. 6.1)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA-FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 821-SO)
I.   Introduction
1.1       This Project Completion Report (PCR, provides a desk analysis of
the First Technical Assistance Credit extended by the IDA to Somalia. The
PCR will refer to the Technical Assistance project and sub-projects to be
carried out thereunder supported by Credit 821-SO. This credit for US$3.0
million was approved by the IDA on June 6, 1978, signed on June 30, 1978
and became effective on December 31, 1978. It was originally scheduled for
closing on December 1, 1981, but was extended thrs.e times for a total of 37
months: first to June 30, 1983, second to June 29, 1984, and finally to
December 31, 1984. An undisbursed balance of US$348,989.33 was cancelled
by July 1985. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$3.8
million of which US$0.8 million were to be counterpart funds provided by
the Government of Somalia.
1.2       The project was designed to help finance project preparation
studies that would lead to high priority projects which had the potential
for being financed by external funding sources. The project al.so sought to
augment the capacity of Somali institutions to manage pre-investment work.
An important component of this project was the appointment of a Senior
Project Advisor who would supervise, assist and coordinate efforts to
achieve project objectives. In .7une 1982, the Association agreed to amend
the appropriate sections in the Credit AgreerAent to enable the Ministry of
Finance to receive assistance in macro-economic management.
1.3       In anticipation of a full commlcment of proJect funde under this
Credit, Somali authorities requested, in 1983, for further technical
assistance in the form of a new credit. After a number of missions by Bank
staff, the project was appraised in January 1984, a President's Report for
a Development Administration (Second Technical Assistance) Project for a
proposed US$3 million to Somalia was prepared and negotiated in the field
in early 19M5. While the project objectives incorporated a number of goals
set forth in the c edit under analysis, its major emphasis was on
institutional built ng in key ministries and agencies. The Government of
Somalia. however, - . not agree to this new project concept and the project
was dropped from the lending program later that year.
1.4       The preparation of this PCR was seriously constrained by a lack
of:
a) evidence, with limited exceptions, of a systematic reporting
system on the monitoring or supervision of sub-projects under
preparation throughout the project period; and



-2-
b) basic documents relating to sub-projects that are vital to any
assessment of the effectiveness of this project.
1.5       The contents of this PCR are presented under five major headings
with appropriate sub-topics, tables and annexes. The main headings consist
of: I. Introduction, II. Project Description, III. Design, Processes and
Procedures for  _I__ementation, IV. Evaluation, and VO ConcIusions and
Lessons for the Future.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
2.1       Somalia is one of the poorest of the Bank's member countries.  It
is classified by the United Nations as one of the least developed
countries. Its per capita income in 1976 was estimated to be only about
US$110. In 1960, when it became independent, adult literacy rates were
only 2 percent, but by 1977 had reached a remarkable 60 percent.
Unfortunately it remains stagnant to date. About two thirds of the
population lead a nomadic or semi-nomadic life. A large majority of this
population observe the Moslem faith. Herding and sttbsistence farming are
the major occupations of the people. Hence livestock and agriculture
constituted the basis for the post-independence Somali development
strategy.
2.2       In addition to the above characteristics of its milieu, Somalia
also experienced influences from external sources. The Somali Democratic
Republic was formed in 1960 by a merger of the former Italian Trust
Territory of Somalia and the British Protectorate of Somaliland. Following
a decade of parliamentary rule, the Government was taken over by the
military in 1969.  T! ---e Revolutionary Council became the highest
policy-making body until mid-19/o, when it was abolished and a political
party-the Somalia Revolutionary Socialist Party-became the key political
institution. During this period the assistance provided by the Soviet
Union was especially significant. Various state enterprises (such as the
Chisimaio Meat Factory and the Las Koreh Fish Factory) were organized with
Soviet assistance and had full-time Soviet technicians serving. The
Planning Commission (now the Ministry of National Planning), which was the
primary institution responsible for development strategy, also had key
Soviet personnel serving during this period.
2.3       Somalia's transition after 1976, from a centralized economy
towards a more open economic system, laid the foundation for a considerable
increase in capital flows from various exterral sources. According to OECD
figures, total annual flows to Somalia from official technical cooperation
grants alone rose rapidly after 1976 and doubled between 1976 and 1979, at
the inception of which period this project was conceived. Further
increases in capital inflows into Somalia from multi-lateral,
industrialized and oil-producing countries are evident after 1979.



-3 -
2.4       In general, the post independence development strategy initiated
after 1960 indicates a high level of investment in Somalia, representing
about 35-40 percent of the GDP. Public investment alone doubled from about
US$50 million to US$100 million per annum in nominal terms between 1973 and
1976. The transition in economic policy anticipated that these levels of
public sector investment would be sustained or grow and that there would be
a corresponding increase in capital inflows commensurate with the needs and
opportunities existing.
2.5       While the prospects for project financing based on increased
external funds were therefore promising after 1977, Somalia's basic problem
centered around its absorptive capacity.  Fundamental problems were evident
in deficiencies prevailing in infrastructure, institutions and trained
manpower.  The following factors contributed to the deficiencies:
i) There were too few projects identified, in preparation or in
the pipeline, corresponding to project-tied funds available
for immediate investment. In simple economic terms, while
there was a ready "supply" of potential investable funds,
there were "demand" constraints placed on project generation.
ii) The large exodus of trained and educated Somalis to
neighboring oil-rich countries to take up better employment
created significant manpower shortages in key institutions,
diminishing their capability to generate, manage, supervise
and implement develonment projects.  It also created a
significant problem in the management of the economy as a
whole.
iii) The departure of the Soviet advisors after 1976 due to changes
in policy added further to the management problems of key
Somali institutions.
iv) The Ogaden war with neighboring Ethiopia tended to direct
resources and policies away from other pressing national
priorities.
Project Identification
2.6       The process of project identification and design was initiated in
September 1975 pursuant to discussions between a visiting high-level Somali
delegation and World Bank project staff. Further correspondence and
discussions between Somali officials and Bank staff concentrated on the
possibility of establishing an IDA project preparation unit to be sited in
a central authority or ministry, in line with a similar unit established in
the Sudan.
2.7       Because identification of projects for funding was considered
somewhat imperative, the project in its final form anticipated the
extension of a standard IDA Technical Assistance Credit. It was to be
disbursed primarily among sub-projects that could lead directly to project



-4-
financing. A President's Report on the project was presented to the Board
in May 1978 based on the above premise. The Development Credit Agreement
signed on June 30, 1978, however, described the project in terms of
execution 'of high-priority studies and other projects of technical
assistance including suitable training courses, designed to assist the
Borrower in the planning and implementation of its programs of economic
development." Hence, the project was described in much broader and general
terms in the Credit Agreement than it was in the President's Report.
2.8       As a result of recommendations made by a Technical Assistance
mission which visited Somalia in December 1981 and subsequent discussions
between concerned Bank and Somali officials, it was concluded that
technical assistance could also be utilized effectively for broad-range
macro-ecoromic management in Somalia. Specific reference was made to the
exist!sg lack of a coherent or realistic macro-economic framework that took
into account resource availabilities and feasible levels of investments.
It was observed in this regard that commitments for public sector project
financing had been made without due attention to implementation, economic
viability and debt-servicing consequences. With the mutual consent of both
parties,-the Association agreed in July 1982 to amend Article 3.01(a) of
the Credit Agreement so that it would enable the Somali government to
carry out "projects of t'chnical assistance designed to assist the borrower
in macro-economic management ...." The provision was to complement the
original Article 3.01(a)(ii), that provided as stated earlier for the
Government to conduct "high-priority studies and other projects of
technical assistance. in=cuding suitable training courses.
Objectives
2.9       The main objective of the Credit, as stated in the President's
Report, was to finance "a program of project preparation studies..." and
"in expanding the capacity of Somalia's institution's to execute
pre-investment work." The criteria to be applied in the selection of these
studies had to be that "they have a high priority in relation to the
Government's development objectives and a high expectation of being
financed within a short time." The Credit Agreement, as noted however,
kept theqe objectives fairly broad. Considerable emphasis was also given
to institution building in line ministries and agencies responsible for the
planning and implementation of economic development programs in Somalia.
In this regard a series of appropriate training programs were to be
conceived and implemented by a Senior Project Advisor.- As a result it was
assumed that the project would assist in establishing an expanded body of
expertise in project selection and preparation in Somali official and
private institutions.
2.10      The primary obligation of implementing and achieving the
objectives of the project rested with the Technical bepartment of the
Ministry of National Planning. The Ministry of National Planning (formerly
the State Planning Commission) consisted of four departments: Planning,
Technical, Coordination and Statistics. The Technical Department was
responsible for micro-economic aspects of plenning and included as its main



-5-
function project preparation. A five-man UNDP Planning Team, consisting of
an Irrigation Engineer, a Livestock Specialist, an Agronomist, an
Agricultural Economist and a Civil Engineer was, at the initiation of this
credit, already assisting the Technical Department in project preparation.
2.11      The Credit Agreement also included the establishment of a Project
Review Committee that consisted of ap-opriate Somali officials, as well as
the UNDP and the Bank Group resident representatives. The committee,
according to the Credit Agreement was responsible for "general supervision
over the carrying out of the project."
2.12      Since many of the institutional arrangements-were only loosely
defined, central _o the realization of the above project objectives was the
appointment of a "duly qualified, experienced and competent advisor"
(Senior Project Advisor), to the Director of the Technical Department.
2.13      To meet the shortcomings of the Ministry of Finance as stated
above and to achieve the objectives of effective macro-economic management,
it was later decided by both parties to appoint a Senior Economic Advisor
to the Ministry of Finance. This expert was to advise the Minister and
Director General on a broad range of institutional and policy issues,
including the establishment of a Public Investment Review Unit. He also
had the responsibility for reviewing the resource constrained Public
Investment Program, for micro-level financial analysis of projects and for
assessing the performance of public enterprise. In addition, he would
advise on how the flow of information, consultation and policy coordination
among macro managers could be strengthened.
III. DESIGN, PROCESSES & PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
Design
3.1       The sub-projectsl/ to be financed .- the US$3.0 million Credit
were not identified as parE of the project preparation. It was indicated
that they could have their origins in any sector, but had to be
high-priority  and had to be approved for financing by the Project Review
Committee. It was also assumed that these sub-projects would not be in the
form of basic studies but would be at a fairly advanced stage of the
project preparation process. Once sub-projects were selected, the IDA
credit would finance up to 83 percent of their cost and the Government
would contribute the remaining 17 percent including administrative costs of
the project institutions.
3.2       A duly qualified and experienced Senior Project Advisor was to
coordinate, assist and advise the Technical Department of the Ministry of
National Planning, in all aspects of implementation of the project.
Pursuant to the amendment incorporated in July 1982, a similar role was to
be served by the Senior Economic Advisor to the Ministry of Finance, on
macro-economic management.
1/   The terms "sub-project", "project", "studies' have often been loosely
and alternatively used-creating serious confusion in the project
document. In this analysis, when the term 'sub-project" is used it
could also include a study or survey financed by the Credit.



-6-
Organization and Procedure
3.3       It is not quite clear from the relevant project documents what
exact roles were to be performed by the above constituent project
elements. In general, the institutional and procedural framework was set
up as follows.
3.4       As stated before, responsibility for implementing the project
rested primarily with the Technical Department of the Ministry of National
Planning (State Planning Commission). The Technical Department would
continue to be responsible for identifying and preparing pre-investment
studies. The Director of the Technical Department would be assisted in
this task by the five-man UNDP team, the full-time expatriate Senior
Project Advisor, staff from planning units in operating ministries and
agencies on a part-time basis, and by short-term consultants as and when
required. The Senior Project Advisor was also responsible for training of
Somali staff in addition to supervision of project preparation work.
3.5       When a sub-project was tentatively selected, a working party was
to be established under the chairmanship of the Director of the Technical
Department. The working party would also include staff of the Technical
Department and technicians from relevant ministries and agencies. Where
specific expertise was required, consultants would be employed by the
working party. The working party would be responsible for analyzing
sub-projects in terms of economic priority and technical and financial
feasibility, defining the need for additional analysis and a schedule for
the execution of the work, preparing terms of reference for necessary
studies and arriving at agreements with the relevant ministries for the
supervision of the executing agency or firm. Where a pre-investment study
was an integral part of a sub-project that had already been earmarked for
final investment by an external funding agency, the latter was to be
informed of the preparatory work being undertaken by the working party.
3.6       The Project Review Committee would coordinate pre-investment
activities and exercise general supervision over implementation of the
project as a whole. The Committee was also responsible for approving the
allocation of funds from the Credit once sub-projects had been selected for
funding. It would also approve selection of consultants and conclude
contracts with them. The Project Review Committee consisted of senior
officials from the State Planning Commission, a senior-official of the
Ministry of Finance, a senior official of the Somali Development Bank, the
Resident Representative of the Bank Group, the Resident Representative of
the UNDP and such senior officials of the operating ministries and agencies
as were appropriate, depending on the project under consideration.
Processes
3.7       Because of the broad and general nature of the project
objectives, there was considerable flexibility provided for the Government
to cater to the immediate priorities that could be identified. This also



-7-
meant an anticipation of a high level of coordination between the various
constituent elements, described above, responsible for project
identification, preparation, implementation, monitoring and supervision.
Based on the available documentation, it is understood that, ideally the
process of sub-project implementation was envisaged to be as follows.
3.8       A project idea or plan would be identified by a Planning
Unit/Team in a line ministry or agency.  A project preparatory team would
be appointed by the Technical Department to prepare the project for
financing with the aid and assistance of the UNDP Team and the Project
Advisor.  The Techniral Department would select a project from among the
many projects or proposals and a special working party would be established
under the chairmanship of the Director of the Technical Department, to
further prepare the sub-project/study for investment. The working party
would prepare the sub-project/study for implementation and make suitable
arrangements with the related ministry or agency to ensure supervision and
coordination. Once a sub-project or study had gone through this process it
would be sent to the Project Review Committee, which would authorize funds
for the carrying out of a sub-project (that would ultimately result in
preparing a project for investment e.g. The Northern Rangelands) or study
which might be required to prepare the final project for investment (e.g.
Afgoi-Baidoa Road Survey). Once authorization was acquired from the
ProjecL Review Committae, and the IDA has approved the sub-project, the
Technical Department could ask for proposals to carry out the sub-project
or study. When the Technical Department (always with the assistance of the
Senior Project Advisor) had selected a consultant, it would submit its
choice for approval by IDA following which the sub-project/study would be
ready for implementation by the chosen consultant.
Disbursements
3.8       Tt.e Credit would finance up to 83 percent of the cost of
consultancy services for any one sub-project and 17 percent of such costs
would be borne by the Somali Government.
3.9       The following table summarizes the project's costs and financing
arrangement:



-8-
Foreign     Local      Total
U.S.$ '000-
Project Costs
Consultancy Sercices               3,000         600        3,600
Administrative Costs               -             200          200
3,000         800       3,800
Financing
IDA                                3,000                     79
Government                                       800         21
3,000         800       100
3.10      Disbursement of the US$3 million Credit based on the above
conditions were estimated to be as follows:
FY79          FY80      FY81
U.S.$ '000
1.0            1.1       0.9
IV. EVALUATION
Justificatlon
4.1       From the perspective of the availability of external funds for
project finance, the Credit made available for high priority project
preparation studies, was both timely and vital in meeting the developmental
goals set forth by the Government of Somalia. That it also sought to
enhance institutional and manpower capabilities in'Somalia, particularly in
the field of generating projects, through such methods as training
programs, provided adequate justification for this Credit. It was argued
with credible cause though that the UNDP Planning Team was already engaged
in assisting the Technical Department in preparation of projects and that
the IDA credit would therefore only serve as a duplication of effort.
Since the UNDP Teams had barely initiated its work program and had not yet
proven to be effective in its operations, it was, however, concluded that
the Credit could be designed around the work of the UNDP Team, and that it
would, therefore, supplement and complement the Team's work.
Objectives
4.2       From the basic documents relating to the project, it is evident
that the objectives were never clearly defined. While the President's
Report called for the financing of a "program of project preparation
studies" of high priority, the Credit Agreement was much broader in scope
and intent when it referred to "high priority studies and other projects of



-9 -
technical assistance". Again, while the President's Report referred to
training programs that would 'assist in expanding the capacity of Somalia's
institutions to execute pre-investment work", the Credit Agreement only
stipulated a requirement of "suitable training courses".
4.3       Despite (or thanks to) the imprecision of its objectives and an
extension of its implementation period by nearly 37 months, the project
financed useful sub-projects, some of which were pursued further by the IDA
and other sources of external funding (see Annex III). The project when it
was closed in July 1985 had yielded eight important sub-projects (the
Afgoi-Baidoa Road Study, the Cotton Lands Development Study,  Northern
Rangelands Project, North West Agricultural Project (test drilling),
AgricultreInputs Study, Mogadishu Harbour Subsidence Study, Juba Valley
Interim Storage Study, and the Quelea Bird Surveys). From the vantage
point, therefore, of financing project preparation leading to investments,
the project may have achieved its objective. Whether the sub-projects were
all of a high priority nature is not clear from available documentation.
4.4       But even the objective of sub-project preparation was not
achieved without serious impediments and delays. The high incidence of
delays in implementing the project as a whole and in generating, preparing,
supervising and implementing the component sub-projects can be ascribed to
a number of reasons, chief among which were:
a.   the lack of a well structured or basic institutional
framework, and even where it existed the deep seated
malaise that was observed within these institutions;
b.   the delay in the appointment of the expatriate Senior
Project Advisor and the subsequent appointment of an
unsuitable candidate;
c.   the weakness of the preparatory stages of sub-projects
often reflected in unacceptable or poor terms of
reference (TORs);
d.   inordinate delays in identifying, selecting and
supervising consultants; and
e.   indecision and disagreement between project staff of the
Bank and the borrower as to the degree of priority of a
sub-project or its viability.
The above problems among others will be discussed in more detail, where
appropriate, below.
4.5       At the same time it is quite striking that this project achieved
so little in terms of insticution building in light of overwhelming



- 10 -
evidence of weak institutions and lack of skilled indigenous personnel.
This contributed to increasing delays in achieving the objectives of speedy
preparation and implementation of the project and its component
sub-projects.
4.6       A major reason for this failure can be attributed to the
performance of the expatriate Senior Project Advisor, whose task it was to
carry out the training component of the project as it was incorporated
under the terms of the Credit Agreement and TOR of the Advisor. There is
no evidence that this responsibility was ever seriously undertaken by the
Advisor.
Design
4.7       In circumstances where the administrative and institutional
framework was fairly well developed and was complemented by skilled
personnel the project objectives may have been realized without much
difficulty. However, in an environment devoid of these basic factors, the
machinery set up for implementation of the project was bound to experience
difficulties, as it indeed did. The design assumed a high degree of
coordination between and among the various ministries and agencies, such as
the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of National Planning, the Technical
Department of the Ministry of National Planning, the expatriate Senior
Project Advisor, the UNDP team, the various teams set up for sub-project
implementation, foreign consultants, the Project Review Committee, the
Regional Mission and World Bank/IDA staff. In short, the design did not
clearly identify or define the tasks or roles to be performed by each of
the units responsible for execution at each stage of the project.
4.8       The project was also designed at a time when Somalia had entered
a transitionary phase in its development strategy. Sufficient evidence was
available to indicate that Somali institutions were not stable enough to
meet the challenging demands of a new economic regime. Constant problems
were observed in internal management, accounting and auditing. Foreign
debt servicing and budgeting, for instance, had emermed as serious
problems. Management of foreign consultants, from preparation of
appropriate TORs to institutional capabilities of negotiating and
consummating contracts, payments, disbursements and procurement all had
become formidable tasks for Somali public institutions.
4.9       The design also did not take into consideration the lack of
indigenous manpower capabilities to implement the project. Somalia had
experienced during this period serious shortages in managerial, technical
and skilled personnel. This was caused for the most part by the
availability of better opportunities for these categories of personnel in
neighboring oil producing countries, and to a lesser extent by



- 11 -
the departure of Soviet officials from key managerial and technical posts
in the Somali public sector. In addition there occurred an increasingly
severe erosion of the real value of salaries in the public sector to the
point where, by 1985, the monthly salary of even senior officials would
only cover their expenses for a few days. The existing personnel,
therefore, lacked appropriate skills, were inexperienced and had a sense of
indifference towards their work and responsibilities because of a lack of
incentives to produce results. Whatever little progress was achieved was
due largely to the dedication of a few responsible individuals, in the
higher echelons of Government.
4.10      Given the above constraints, the very heavy responsibilities cast
on the Senior Project Advisor within the project framework was over
ambitious and impractical. When a candidate who lacked the required
experience was finally appointed to the post, it only added to the existing
problems.
Implementation
4.11      Processes and Procedures.  As stated earlier, the high degree of
cooperation and coordination that was required of the numerous actors
involved in the project never occurred, resulting in serious delays in
implementation. The lack of a clear or cohesive definition of the
objectives and of the exact scop,e of work to be carried out by the
different elements responsible for project implementation and how this
impacted adversely on the process of implementation of the project as a
whole, is evident from the apparent confusion that followed. For instance,
the Technical Department under the supervision of its Director General, the
Senior Project Advisor, the UNDP team and officials drawn from appropriate
sector ministries were all responsible for preparing sub-project proposals
that had potential for financing under the Credit. Likewise, sub-project
identification, implementation and determining their priority was the
responsibility of the Technical Department, the Senior Project Advisor and
the Project Review Committee. This latter Committee consisted of a number
of members drawn from diverse Somali ministries and agencies and the World
Bank and UNDP Resident Representatives. The Committee met on an ad hoc
basis and was responsible for final approval of sub-project stud4es for
financing by the Credit. It was also responsible for the selection of
foreign consultants. The Ministry of Finance was responsible for seeking
budgetary appropriations to meet the logistics requirements and the local
costs of the project.
4.12      At'the time of the first supervision mission in October 1980, the
Technical Department with the apparent assistance of the UNDP Team, had
identified 22 possible sub-projects, but only one-the Afgoi Baidoa Road
Study--was advanced enough to be funded by the Credit. This study as well
as the se-.en other sub-projects which were ultimately completed under the
Credit by July 1985 were (with the exception of the Quelea Bird Surveys,
the Cotton Lands Rehabilitation Project, and the Juba ValleY Interim
Storage Project) either funded further (see annex III for individual
project surveys) by Bank/IDA and other external agencies within larger
projects (e.g., Afgoi Baidoa Road under the IV Somalia Highway Project) or
were incorporated as important contributions to sectoral studies (e.g.,
Arclt            Input Studies within the Somalia Agriculture Sector Study
1986. Another Msub-project (North-West Agriculture



- 12 -
Development-Test Drilling), was a component of a study being carried out
under an on-going project-the North-West Agriculture Development Project -
Phase I, being funded by a separate IDA Credit. The only sub-project which
however, met all the design and conceptual requirements of the Credit, was
the Northern Rangelands Project Preparation sub-project.
4.13      In the preparation of the above sub-projects, however, endless
and protracted debate and problems arose, particularly with regard to
priorities and Terms of Reference (Quelea Birds, and Agriculture Inputs,
Cotton Lands), and selection of foreign consultants kalmost all projects).
This was in large measure due to the inappropriate or insufficient design
of the sub-project and the cumbersome processes involved in selection of
consultants. In particular, the project design did not specify:
a.   at what stage of preparation a particular sub-project
was qualified to be financed by the Credit. The fact
that basic studies were to be avoided may have caused
serious confusion. Even so, tbe Quelea Bird Surveys and
the Cotton Lands Project appeared to be nothing but
basic (or sector) scudies;
b.   who or which units determined the priority of the
sub-project to be ultimately financed by the Credit.
(The Technical Department? The Project Review
Committee? The UNDP Team? The World Bank? Key
officials of sector ministries? The Senior Project
Advisor?) Was a consesus of all required? This is not
obvious either, since in determining the priority of the
Quelea Bird Survey, the Vice Minister of Agriculture
playea a decisive role; and
c.   the responsibility for determination of appropriate
consultants. (Was it the role of the Technical
Department? Project Review Committee? The Senior
Project Advisor or concerned ministries or agencies? or
The Project Review Committee?)
4.14      The delays and omissions encountered in the process of
implementation due to manpower constraints cannot be over emphasized. A
significant example of this particular dilemma can be observed by the fact
that within two years from the credit being effective (between 1978-80) the
Director of the Te_.tnical Department (the key individual of the Department
responsible for the overall implementation of the project) was replaced
three times. Even then, the appointee was considered inexperienced, though
capable. The result, therefore, as observed in the general supervision
report of October 24, 1980 was that such action "deprived the Technical
Department of continuity of management and dynamism which are essential for
the speedy implementation of the project." The report also obsarved that
the delays caused were attributable to the general malaise prevailing
within the Somali public service. Purthermore, there is no evidence that



- 13 -
the elaborate procadures for establishing working parties under the
chairmanship of the Director of the Technical Department for sub-project
preparatory work ever occurred, or whether in fact the working parties ever
existed or functioned. So a process which had been designed to provide
exposure, participation and on-the-job training for local officials in
important pre-investment work did not work. Moreover, every one of the
sub-projects completed were implemented exclusively by foreign consultants
and there is no evidence of local participation. It was also evident that
the UNDP Team which had a substantial task in the preparation of
sub-projects was having difficulties. Under the terms of the Credit
Agreement, the borrower had to ensure that any vacancy among the five
members of the UNDP team had to be filled immediately. The delay in
appointing someone to the vacant post of Agricultural Economist (the post
fell vacant in late 1979 and the appointment was only made in late 1980),
delayed to a great extent the project preparation process and the
effectiveness of the Credit. The supervision report observed in this
regard that "it seemed that project preparation work in the Technical
Department would require greater integration with the UNDP team." Later
supervision missions visiting Somalia at various stages of the project also
confirmed the difficulties encountered by the UNDP Team, and particularly
poor coordination with local staff.
4.15      The other key state organization-the Ministry of Finance-also
experienced difficulties in meeting :ts obligations under the Credit.
Serious delays were noted particularly in the Ministry's approval of local
cost requirements for sub-projects (e.g., when China Export Corporation
stopped test drilling under the North West Agriculture Prnoet)and for
logistics and administrative requirements (e.g., In meeting -t e needs of
both the Project Advisor and the Economic Advisor).
4.15      The Project Review Committee which had a number of important
tasks to perform under the Credit met consistently at the inception of the
project, but as the project progressed, it met less frequently or not at
all. Even on occasions when the Committee did meet, it appears that key
officials, such as the Bank Group Resident Representative, seldom
attended. The result was that approval of sub-projects and consultants and
the general supervision of the project in its entirety became the
responsibility of World Bank staff at Headquarters or Nairobi. This too
led to delays in project implementation.



- 14 -
4.17      Advisors.  The successful outcome of the project depended heavily
on the role and performance of the Senior Project Advisor, and, after 1982,
of the Economic Advisor to the Ministry of Finance in meeting the objective
of macro-economic management. The Senior Project Advisor's per'crmance was
pivotal to the project because he was mandated for in the Credit Agreement
and the effectiveness of the Credit itself was dependent upon a suitable
appointment. The Advisor's TOR were comprehensive and covered all aspects
of the project including advisory services and assistance to the State
Planning Covmission (later the Ministry of National Planning);
identification, preparation and appraisal of sub-project proposals, ranking
of sub-project oroposals in accordance with priorities set in terms of
Government objectives, policies and targets, supervision of sub-project
preparation, advise on the recruitment of consultants, preparation of
bidding documents and monitoring of the activities of sub-project
consultants, training Somali counterparts on the job, and setting up and
coordinating working parties envisaged for sub-project preparation. Quite
literally, therefore, the entire task of overseeing the implementation of
the project rested with the Senior Project Advisor because of the
exceptionally wide responsibilities bestowed on him. Both the Somali
Government and IDA found difficulties in identifying an appropriate
candidate. A suitable candidate was finally identified after the passage
of nearly one year and was mutually acceptable to the Government and IDA.
However, just before tn. appointment was made, the Government changed its
mind and proposed another candidate, who, in the judgment of ;DA, was
inappropriately qualified and experienced to undertake the post. But upon
the insistance of the Somali Government and in the interest of the Credit
becoming effective without further delay, the Bank acquiesced. Because the
advisor had little or no project experience and had not been involved in
any aspect of project preparation, selection of consultants or
identification of priorities, he could not perform his tasks adequately.
Especially regrettable is the fact that the duty to train Somali
counterparts remained almost totally unaccomplished. During the tenure of
the Advisor, only one report (Ne-ember 26, 1980) on the status of the
project as a whole, and the sub-projects was submitted. This was an
extremely brief, sketchy account from which not much could be gathered, on
the progress of the project and the sub-projects. It is noted, however,
that the Advisor was also constrained by a lack of logistical support and
inadequate staff,  The overall result was that t'-e Advisor placed hea"y
reliance on IDA in order to perform his duties and ultimately, it was Bank
staff that managed the project. To have expected IDA to also fulfill the
training requirements would have been to ask too much and would have
rendered the entire project concept meaningless. inevitably, this all
important requirement remained without completion.
4.18      The problems associated with the Economic Advisor to the Ministry
of Finance, appointed in September 1982 as a result of amendments to the
Credit Agreement, were of a different nature. The Senior Economic
Advisor's major function was to advise the Minister and D'rector General of



- 15 -
the Ministry of Finance on a broad range of institutional and policy
issues, including establishment of a Public Investment Review Unit, review
of the Public Investment Program, micro-lev31 financial analysis of
projects, assessment of public enterprise performance and other duties. In
January 1983, only four months after his appointment, the Senior Economic
Advisor tendered his resignation citing stress related ill health, and a
lack of cooperation from within the Ministry, other than from the MYnister
himself. Evidence suggests that the Economic Advisor was unable to adapt
to the difficult conditions prevailing in Somalia. Some important
observations made by the Advisor with reference to working conditions point
to the inherent and serious problems within Somali institutions chat has
been constantly raised in this report. He observed that he could not fit
into a weak organizational structure, and that there were hardly any
trained economists in the Ministry with whom he could initiate a serious
economic work program. Nevertheless a tentative proposal regarding
economic work in the Ministry of Finance was submitted by the Advisor. The
proposal called for, among other things, the strengtheniag of the Economic
Research Unit within the Ministry and carrying out of ad hoc reviews of
important economic 'programs", such as the external debt profile of
Somalia. In this latter task he particularly called for the use of
available Somali experts (drawn from the University and other agencies) on
a consultancy basis with competitive salaries to provide appropriate
incentives. The performance of the siccessor as Advisor to the Ministry is
difficult to evaluate in the absence of relevant material relating to the
duties the Advisor had undertaken, but senior officials of the Ministry
consistently expressed satisfaction with his work.
Evaluation of Sub-Projects (See Annex for individual project assessments).
4.19      The sub-projects financed under the project are an array of
studies, surveys, and a drilling activity, that, with a single exception
(the Northern Rangelands Sub-Project) facilitated IDA financed projects
already in progress (test-drilling) or proposed The Afgoi-Baidoa Road
Survey led to the Somalia IV Highway Project; The North-West Agriculture
Development - Test Drilling (Part of the consultant's Report) led to the
North-West Agriculture Development Project - Phase II; and the Mogadishu
Harbor Subsidence Study led to the Somalia Port Modernization Project. The
three projects had IDA and cofinanced fundings for a total sum of US$69.9
million. Two external agencies--the International Fund for Agriculture and
Development (US$7.0 million) and the European Economic-Community (US$5.4
million)- provided cofinancing for the North-West Agriculture D3velopment
Project - Phase II, and the Arab fund provided about US$16.3 million in
cofinancing the IV Highway Project. Of the remaining subprojects, the
Agriculture Inputs Survey contributed significantly to the Somalia
Agriculture Sector Study and the Quelea Bird SuLveys, contributed directly
to control activities taking place simultaneously, during seasons when the
surveys were being carried out. The remaining two studiez The Cotton Lands
Rehabilitation Study and the Juba Valley Interim Storage - Prefeasibility
Study could not generate further investment.



- 16 -
4.20      Beyond the objective of preparing projects for further
investments, which was reasonably achieved, the secondary objective of
strengthening the institutions in their project preparation capabilities
seems to have gone unaccomplished. Part of the reason for this was
because, the TORs never incorporated a training component, nor was there
any provision that enabled the participation of local units or personnel -
assuming such were available. The only sub-project which conscioasly
called for the participation and inclusion of local personnel was the
Quelea Bird Surveys. Here the TOR, on the insistence of the Bank, included
the participation of the local communities :rnd the Bird Control Unit of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Evidence indicates that the surveys particularly
helped the latter in control activities, although the surveys themselv'es
were carried out; by a foreign consultant exclusively. Another major reason
for this failure was that, most sub-projects (except, Juba Valley Interim
Storage, and the Northern Rangelands) were either surveys or studies or a
"iardware- activity (Test Drilling), carried out by independent contractors
or consultants. Overall, however, it is difficult to conclude that
institutional development .n terms of improved local capabilities to
undertake project preparation activities had taken place, particularly in
view of the fact that all the svb-projects were contracted exclusively to
foreign consultants. In additior, because the Senior Project Advisor
failed completely in the task of providing training courses in project
preparation, one has to conclude that the institutional development process
never occurred.
Terms of Reference
4.21      With the single exception of the Northern Rangelands sub-project,
terms of reference for which were aimed at project preparation for further
investments, the TOR's for the sub-projects were prepared to facilitate
studies and surveys to be undertaken by consultants. In the case of
North-West Agriculture Development (Test Drilling) Sub-Project, TOR's were
not prepared because the Bank agreed to an exception from the normal
procedures. While the test drilling was to be funded by the Credit, the
sub-project was an integral part of a feasibility study and technical
assistance effort provided by consultants under the North-West Agricultural
Development Phase I Project funded by another IDA Credit (Credit 635-SO).
In the case of the Juba Valley Interim Storage Sub-Project too, an
exception is noted because the TOR for a prefeasibility study were prepared
by the Bank and transmitted to the Technical Department.
4.22      With the exception of the Afgoi-Baidoa Rcad Survey Sub-Project,
the TOR of every one of the sub-projects were subject to minor or wholesale
changes or additions recommended or suggested by the Bank. The sub-project
that encountered the most serious changes was the Cotton Lands
Rehabilitation and Development Sub-Project, for which the Bank suggested
strongly that the TOR for the sub-project should be specificlY designed for
a feasibility study rather than project preparation. This was agreed to,
but the TOR aimed at a historical approach and was much more a reflection
of the need for an exhaustive study of the cotton industry in Somalia than
a feasibility study. As there was also a dispute within the Bank itself
about the viability of this study, even the reformulated TOR did not



- 17 -
produce a feasibility study that warranted        ir investment.  In the case
of the Agriculture Input Survey the Bank s        ad a combination of two
separate TORs an Agriculture Inputs Survey and an Agriculture Cooperative
Study.  The revised and more comprehensive TOR were accepted and the survey
was completed on this basis. At first, the completed survey was to lead
the financing of an Agriculture Rehabilitation Program, but later, the
findings of the survey were incorporated into the Agriculture Sector Study
which was completed recently by the Bank. An effective contribution was
made by the Bank in suggesting revisions for the Quelea Bird Surveys, TOR
to include the participation of the local population and ground personnel
in the plant protection and bird control units. It appears that these
changes did help in the local ground and air control and performance. In
the case of the Mogadishu Harbor Subsidence (and the Investigation of
Armorlayer of the Breakwater) Sub-Project, the Bank suggested a more
detailed breakdown of the responsibilities of the consultants in the TOR.
In the Northern Rangelands Development Project Phase II case the Bank
suggested substantial additions to the TOR by recommenaing the inclusion of
an Economist/Financial Analyst in the team of specialists and expanding the
scope of evaluation of Phase I though more explicit references in the TOR.
4.23      A summary evaluction of the TORs as a whole reflects a lack of
attention to detail, vagueness and excessively broad objectives to be
achieved, lack of acknowledgment of the importance of sub-projects in terms
of national priorities, and the viability of a sub-project. It could be
concluded, therefore, that in the project preparation process, the various
units responsible lacked the required skills, which was especially evident
in the preparation of TORs. Striking also is the fact that the UNDP team
had not made any positive impact on this process. The result was that the
Bank (Headquarters and Regional Mission) had to be heavily involved in tne
preparation of appropriate TORs and, again, the institutional objective of
the TA Credit was not accomplished.
Implementation
4.24      Recruiting and Contracting Consultants:  The choice and
contracting of consultants for Bank funded projects lies with the
Borrower. While this seems easy enough, (though some argue that this is
not a usual function of government), unleds the Borrower is aware of the
processes and procedures that have to be used in the selection of
consultants, they become cumbersome, complex and time-consuming. With a
few exceptions (Northern Rangelands, Harbor Subsidence) most sub-projects
experienced serious delays because of a lack of familiarity with these
processes.
4.24      In three of the sub-projects (Northern Rangelands, Quelea Surveys
and North-West Agriculture Development), the TORs were releasea eit er Dy
the Technical Department or by the responsible ministry/agency to
prospective consultants, and in one-- the Quelea Bird Surveys-the Ministry



- 18 -
of Agriculture signed the contract before IDA authorization. In every one
of these cases IDA had tG warn the Borrower of the departure from the
agreed procedure. Nevertheless, in the case of the Juba Valley Interim
Storage Sub-Project IDA did not appear to mind that the contract entered
into between the Ministry of Jube Valley Development and the foreign
consultant did not have its prior approval; this resulted in serious
questions being raised by the Ministry of Finance.
4.26      In the final analysis the process of selection of consultants
forms an integral part of sub-project preparation itself, and if the
sub-project preparation process is weak, difficulties in selection of
consultants will necessarily follow as in the Afgoi-Baidoa Road Surveys,
Cotton Lands Rehabilitation and the Agriculture Inputs Study.  Where the
study was specific as to its needs (The Mogadishu Harbor Subsidence) or
where the Bank, at the request of the Borrower, actively assisted by
submitting lists of appropriate consultants (The Agriculture Inputs,
Mogadishu Harbor Subsidence) a difficult and time-consuming process became
less constraining.   This all suggests that the Bank missed an opportunity
to hel, the Government to improve its procedures for design and approval of
studies as well as for selecting and hiring consultants. It is not clear
however, whether Government wanted help in these matters.
Supervision
4.27     A lack of definition of the roles to be played by the various
elements responsible for project management was generic also to the
supervision of the various sub-projects. Because related ministries and
agencies had some degree of supervision responsibility over a sub-project,
unless there was close communication between them, implementation snags
emerged. This was evident after the completion of Phase III of the Quelea
Bird Surveys when the Ministry of Planning (Technical Department)
recommended a suspension of the surveys, because the client ministry-the
Ministry of Agriculture-failed to convince the Technical Department of the
effectiveness of the surveys. In another subproject-The Juba Valley
Interim Storage - the Ministry of Finance lodged a protest with IDA
regarding disbursements requested by the Technical Department, because
normal procedures for project implementation had not been used and the
waivers authorized by IDA had not been communicated to the Ministry of
Finance by the Technical Department.
4.28      In general, the performance of the consultants were found to be
acceptable. One of the reports (Agriculture Inputs Survey) raised a number
of issues, but was found to be useTul. Anotther (Cotton Lands
Rehabilitation) was assessed by the IDA to contain too many basic
ommissions to warrant any further consideration. Two reports, (the
Afgoi-Baidoa Road; Mogadishu Harbor Subsidence) contributed
significantlytowards two major IDA funded proJects.   Performance of other
consultants or contractors (N.W. Agricultural Development Project Drilling,
and Quelea Birds) led directly to ongoing activities in their respective



- 19 -
areas. The consultant's project preparation work was a useful input Phase
II of the Northern Rangelands Project.
4.29      Delays and communication problems also arose because of the lack
of clarity about this division of supervision responsibilities between
Bank Headquarters and the Regional Mission in Africa (RMEA). In the Cotton
Lands Rehabilitation Study the Regional Mission questioned the viability of
the sub-project and was surprised when Headquarters authorized the study
under the revised TOR. When responsibility for supervision of the
Ag_iculture Inputs Study was transferred to RMEA, delays occured because
the Borrower continued to transmit TORs for consultants to Headquarters for
authorization. Moreover, it should be noted that the Programs Division was
responsible for the project l'ntil 1983, when it was taken over by the
Institutional Development, Technical Assistance ana Training Division
(EAPIT) in the Project Department. The high turnover rate of staff in the
Programs Division (at least four different Loan officers and three
different Resident Representatives oversaw the Project during the period
concerned as well as in RMEA also affected supervision of the Project.
Overall, a characteristic common to the implementation of this project as a
whole was that no single authority or person was responsible for the
supervision of the entire project or the coordination of sub-projects.
Under the present arrangements EAPIT is now responsible for such
coordination.
V. Conclusions and Suggestions for the Future
5.1       If viewed from the broad objective (as stated in the President's
Report) of assisting Somali agencies, both official and private, to improve
their capabilities in project preparation, the Credit hid very limited
success*   Somali authorities were not much better equipped to handle such
tasks at the time ef project completion than they were before the Credit
was made. On the other hand, if the criterion of success is based on the
narrower objectives of funding high priority studies and other projects of
technical assistance, the Credit achieved its purpose because it funded an
array of useful studies, surveys and technical assistance projects.
Whether these were of a high priority or not could not be ascertained,
though they were so considered by the various parties that had to agree to
the studies to be financed. In one case, the Quelea Birds Surveys which
was considered by the Technical Department to be of high priority when it
was first proposed, it was concluded by the same Department to be
inappropriate for further funding, and the surveys were discontinued after
Phase III. The Cotton Lands Rehabilitation Study was not only questioned
in relation to its priority but also regarding its viability - though
ultimately it was authorized. In two cases, the North-West Agriculture
Development Project Test Drilling, and the Juba Valley Interim Storage
sub-projects, procedures directly relating to the project were not follbwed
because of Eank authorized exemptions. There is a fine line between Bahk
assistance and Bank imposition. These sub-projects may indicate that IDA's
view of sub-project priority was considered more important than adherence
to agreed procedures for its determination.  It should be recognized,
however, that the Credit itself would have been totally ineffective had it
not been for IDA's constant assistance in every aspect of project
execution. The origins of the problems encountered in this project can be
without doubt traced back to the feasibility of its entire design,



- 20 -
which, unfortunately, seems to have been simply transposed from a previous
Credit granted to Sudan for similar purposes (Credit 614-SU). The only
differences were that a Senior Project Advisor and, later, a Macro-Economic
Advisor-were accommodated within the design in place of an Project
Preparation Unit which performed similar functions in Sudan to those of the
Senior Project Adviser. These exceptions did not make the design less
complex, but in fact, only added to the problems. Without direction and
control, the preparation of TORs for sub-projects and selection of
consultants became formidable and time consuming tasks.
5.2       With so many objectives to achieve (project preparation,
high-priority studies, technical assistance projects and macro-economic
management) one objective which was essentially ignored or disregarded or
may have turned out to be unfeasible, was the most important one; the
strengthening of project preparation capabilities through training. The
failure of this task can be attributed to the following factors:
a) the ineffectiveness of the Senior Project Advisor in carrying
out this responsibility.
b) inadequate provisions for training components in TOR's of the
sub-projects;
c) lack of a survey of training needs and lack of preparation of
a training plan; and
d)  inattention of IDA-Headquarters and RMEA-towards
institutional development objectives and the training
component while the Project was in the process of being
implemented;
In particular, considerable strides might have been made by clearly
stating the categories and numbers of personnel to be trainee within a
specified time frame in the Technical Department and in the
ministries/agencies responsible for specific sub-projects (now a standard
requirement in the Bank). It may, of course, be that there were no
trainable cadre of personnel in the ministries or agencies, in which case
the training component was unfeasible. However, assuming that there was a
basic cadre of trainable personnel, then, in light of the weaknesses within
the Somali Public Service, it may have been prudent to-design the credit
entirely around this training function. However, by transposing (blue
printing) a TA designed for another country, as seems to have been the
case, there was present the inherent danger of inappropriateness in



- 21 -
relation to local conditions. The overall results indicate that this was
indeed the case. Inevitably, IDA ended up with a much too great
responsibility for the administration and implementation of the project --
and its outcome.
Suggestions for the Future
5.3       Design.  In hindsight it is comparatively easy to pin-point the
flaws of a project that has been completed. It is quite likely that the
project was primarily intended to finance studies; in fact, it was seen as
an alternative to overuse of the PPF which had just been created.  In that
sense, the project achieved its objective. Given the prevailing
circumstances it may also have been a difficult task to obtain workable
institutional arrangements and a detailed agreement with Somali authorities
as later experienced under the aborted second project. Moreover, the
institutional success of the project depended to a very large extent on the
operational efficiency of institutions and personnel that were already
considered to be ineffective from the very inception.
5.4       The institutional design issue is also a reminder that
institutions do not as easily transfer from one country to another as does
"hard-ware". Essentially, in a project dealing with the human factor, it is
imperative that the project design is derived from local circumstances such
as the levels of institutional capacities and capabilities, their structure
and evolution, processes and procedures of operation, the levels of
education of decision makers, the institutional "culture" and behavior and
the linkages between the various ministries and public sector agencies.
These differ from country to country and the approach in designing TA will
have to be varied accordingly. This would mean the designer working very
closely with recipient officials in determining the factors that can best
be utilized and targeting TA at:
a) developing skills that are not present; and
b) building on skills that are available, but are weak.
By comparing policy areas and functional areas in a given ministry or
agency one may be able to determine where skill gaps are present. TA could
be targetted at developing skills where gaps are identified. An example
might be that a ministry official is able to collate a-list of consultants,
but may not have the skills to select, process or enter into a contract
with a consultant. In such a case a training component might build on what
is pres. ntly known. On the other hand, the whole process of consultant
selection may be a mystery in which case all the necessary skills need to
be acquired. In the case of Somalia therefore, the broad generalities of
the project objectives should be avoided or at least complemented by more
a specific design.   Moreover, a clear ranking of the project priorities
should be provided among the many objectives of the Project.



- 22 -
Even in terms of any one function, it is important to clearly define and
describe (perhaps in annexes) every component of the function that has to
be addressed. For example, in a training function, one could specify the
categories of personnel to be trained, the number that would be trained,
types of training to be provided, period of training and how trainees are
to be selected. It ought to be made clear who is responsible for training
and the nature of the training program (a curriculum for "on the job"
training, workshops, etc.) and the incentives that might follow after
training is completed.  In the case of studies or projects of high
priority, they ought to be identified and if possible specified along
sectoral and priority lines that have already been incorporated in national
development plans.
5.5       Coordination/Supervision.  The involvement of too many parties
both within the Government and within the Bank in imnlementing the project
will create confusion and a single source or individual responsible for
coordination or accountable for the project and the sub-projects should be
identified. Coordination is vital not merely to monitor the progress of
the project but also to control it. The recipient should give a clear
mandate to one agency or organization to manage the project to th2
exclusion of others. Within the Bank it is expected that the newly created
independent Technical Assistance units will provide greater continuity in
management, supervision, control and coordination of TA projects. They
should also be able to complement the impact of TA projects through sector
work-such as the Technical Cooperation Assessment mission carried out
jointly by UNDP and the Bank in Somalia.
5.6       Covperation/Communication.  As in the coordination function, an
underlying assumption for a successful TA Project is adequate cooperation
of and among the different agencies of the recipient and between program,
project and the regional mission staff of the Bank. While it is admitted
that competing interests can always cut into cooperation; the resulting
adverse impact can be minimized by a prior understanding of the parameters
within which these elements operate and an adherence to well laid out
procedures. Project design and subsequent amendments should specify the
roles of the various parties concerned, and the agreements reached.
5.7       Consultants/Advisors.  Perhaps the single most troublesome area
in a TA Project is the complex, protracted and burdensome procedures for
selecting and contracting consultants -and advisors. It can also be the
most sensitive and delicate of tasks, since when the recipient has
responsibility for selecting the consultant and the Bank has the power of
acquiescing with the decision or rejecting it. The system of selection of
consultants remains a major administrative burden for the borrowers from
identification, preparation of TORs, releasing of TORs, selection of the
consultant, and various Bank authorizations. There is admittedly no easy
way to simplify this time consuming process, except to recommend that the
whole process of selecting consultants be the subject of a comprehensive
training program geared towards project preparation.



- 23 -
5.8       The problems that have emerged from this project are many and
they cut across the whole spectrum of project management. They are nothing
new at this point, and were addressed by the Bank as part of its policy
work on Technical Assistance. What they demonstrate, nevertheless, is that
there may never have been something like a single TA project consisting of
a "Study Fund", that could be prepared and appraised in a few weeks and
succeed.  Any project that introduces a new structure within Government
must be designed, appraised and monitored like any other project.
IV.  Postscript
6.1       As the First Technical Assistance Project was nearing completion
the Government requested a second credit to finance additional studies.
Because of the lack of success of the First Technical Assistance Project in
building local capacity even in the field of project preparation IDA
-insisted that a line of credit for studies without a strong institutional
development component would not be acceptable. Based on the findings of a
series of missions, including the joint UNDP/Bank Technical Cooperation
Assessment Mission, IDA concluded that the key areas were aid coordination
and development planning, economic management as well.as project
preparation. In April 1985 IDA sent a team to Somalia to negotiate a
credit of US$ 3.0 million for these purposes. The Ministry of National
Planning, however, had concluded that it did not need further assistance in
improving the planning system from either IDA or any other source of
external assistance. Under the curcumstances the Government and IDA agreed
that there was no basis for further negotiation of the proposed project
which was dropped from IDA's lending program.



- 24 -
Arxfex 1
SUMAH  OF ISSLES/PR     S REIRaAT( TO TA 281-SO
PROJ=  OEErON AND MAME
HROJFCr CONEN                      OBLEPS/ISSUES                             UTUM.
I.. ffe Preident's Report    1.  Design azr  objectives          1.  Inadequate familiarity wLth L-i.gemxus
trsn6posed f ram similar          aiMinxStrative structure capacities
craeit eKtended to Sudar.         ard capabilities with reference LO
project managmaet and Iplamntatior.
2. Credit Agreerit             1.  Project objectives too        i.  Lack of urderstwdirg by the borror
lowwly drafted axI too            as to the exact xrpose of the Credit.
general.  riconsistent with       AL1aF flexibility reassary co make
the project objectives ir.        project responsive to rns as th2y
the President's Report            arose.
e.g. Preparation ard
trairirg comets.
2.  Too mny objectives to be    2. Partial fulfilnt of project
|chiev8i in too short a           preparatimn objective.
periaod.                         N!xfUlfilnt of train:frg objective.
3.   he Bark/IIM               1.  Wak coordination betwen    1.  Serious delays in project
(a)  Program                    Prgi  , Sector, Regioral          implementation.
(b) Sectois                    Missiou, Resident mission
(c) Regioral Mission EA         officials in supervision
(d) Resident Mission            and nement of project.
2.  High turn-or of staff.    2.   Ccfiusn1x in the borrower regapxLirg
reportirg funCtios.
3.  I       tconsistency in directions  3.  Break in continuity in project
to the borrower regardirg         eangelent.  Delays in project
prnoedural aspects e.g.           Impl"onrtatirx.
authorization of
mib-=uitracts, selection of
ccnsultants etc.
4. Ibcn dstency with              4.  Cnfusimon in borrmwer regarding its
reference to project              role in imleimetaion of project, and
objectives.                      urndrstadirg of project objectives.
5.  Misuderstandirgs betwem Monk and
Borrower.
2. Ihe Borrowr.
1.  The Tedwdal            1-  Lack of skiLled personel    1.  Oelays in project preparation,
Dept. Offnltry at          with aequae   aperlemoe in       Ppl_st ard lnpimttIM.
1t1ia,   Plnar)            the pcojecc eycle.



- 25 -
2.  Ihe Minstry of       2.  Pborly prepared ToRs.        2.  Project objectives faUed to be
Finance.                                                   achieved.
3.  Line Ministries       3.  Lack of coordination         3.  Waste of resources which the borrower
Ageies                                                     ultimately has to pay back.
responsible 'for
sub-projects.
4.  Inadequate counicatlo or
identification of
priorities in keeping with
nationa poicy.
5.  Inadequate understandirg of
proJect objectives.
6.  Lick of lcgistLcal and
local financial support.
3. The UNIP Project           1.  Lack of cordimnation with   1.  Pcorly prepared TCP1s.
Prepmation Unit.               local staff.
2.  Inadequate recognitiom of   2.  Dblays in subproject preparation and
local Des and priorities.        the project itself.
3.  Project objectives not aheved -
particularly in institutional building
and training in preparatimn of
projects for furtber funding.
4. Senior Project Advisor
1.  TIalequately qualified and   1.  Tnability to perform his
siperiencad In project           responsibilities.
related activities.
2.  Too many responsibilities.   2.  Delays In sub-project preparation,
2n)lmpentation and supervision.
3. Project objectives not achdeved -
particularly the trainirg fuCtion.
4.  Waste of resources.



- 26 -
5. Maczo-Ecutc  dvior.
(Fint Apoilet)
1.  Inability to adopt to a     1.  Inability to perfo  res iblities.
diffimlt stti.
2.   Ilablity to pini the       2.  Prmture  1.patin from ciiti.
mppot ci local.
rce!pt.                    3.  Project objectives no  added.
3.  Inalequate local  w-pomr
and logstical atzport.     4.  Delas in project inaemeatati m.
5.  Weste of resol cas.



- 27 -
'ANE II
StUB-Ffi1]ECm FfW3 UNiE 3 CREDrr 821-SOk
CNrRACr DM          ND.   SUB-OEct NAME                                          (U.S. $)
July 7, 1980         1    Afgoi hidos Rod Study                                  288,819.26
Jan 25, 1982         2    CDttccl LosR ebabLltatic  and Dev. (Phase 1)           112,176.00
April. 1981          3    Nbrthemn Razgelsadas Dev. Project Phame II              92,433.27
Dee. 1980/Feb 1982   4    NoIrth West Agiculture Dev. Project                    743,089.23
Jan 1983May 1984    5      ftigadishu Harbor Subskidm   Study  inve gsticaC   and
Azmoiayer stlxz'                                   173,958.65
Mar. 1982/Oct. 1982  6    Qzelea Eird Surveys, Phase I-IV                        432,586.23
Jure 1983/July 1984
Feb. 21, 1983        7    Agriclture Inpwuts Survey                              252,0Q0.
Sept. 26, 1984       8    Juba Valley Interim Storage Pre-feasibUiity Study      191,590.47
Total disbzrsed                             2,286,653.11
Total cm^lled July 1985                       348,989.33
Total Credit Ekxluding Advisors                     2,635,642.44
Salary of Senior Project Advisor
as at February 7, 1986                        276,839.23
Salary of Mfcrro-Ee. Advisor                          87,518.33
Total Credit                                3,000,000.00
* NDte that these figue have bm caputed from disbjset figres. in smeral, project
accamtirg reflect a total disarray.   e, d        aes   in the figures my be posible.



- 28 -                    Annex III
Page 1 of 22
DESCRIPTION AND EVALUATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
Due to serious disarray and discrepancies in accounting and
auditing of sub-projects only clear commitments or disbursements made
towards sub-projects will be indicated here. An uncommitted undisbursed
amount of US$ 348,989.33 out of a total of USS 3.0 million was cancelled in
July 1985.
Sub-project u'o. 1
Title: Afgoi-Baidoa Road Study
Government Agency Involved: Ministry of Public Works
Consultant Contract Signed: July 7, 1980
Proiect Cnmpleted: February 1981
Project Cost: US$ 288,819.26
Follow-up Investment: Support of Credit 1324-SO, approved in March 1983,
for US$ 43.5 million for the Somalia Fourth Highway Project. Of the total
project cost IDA contributed US$ 23.0 million or 53% of total project cost,
the Arab Fund (about US$ 16.3 million or 37%) and the Government (about
US$ 4.2 million or 10% net taxes and duties).
Background/Objectives
1.1       The Afgoi-Baidoa Road (216 km) forms part of a main artery
connecting Baidoa with Mogadishu, the Capital of Somalia. The road was
constructed in 1971 with the assistance of the International Development
Association and the European Development Fund. The pavement was originally
designed for seven years and needed strengthening. Apart from a slightly
rolling section near Baidoa, the road traverses mostly flat terrain. The
condition of the road was generally satisfactory. However, undulations,
pot holes and cracking of the surface were found in about the first 100
km. from Afgoi; the pavement in the black cotton s6il area between Bur
Acaba and Baidoa had suffered extensive cracking. Since its construction,
the road pavement had not _eceived any resealing.
1.2       The objective of the study was to assess the strength of the
existing pavement and to undertake detailed engineering for strengthening
and improving the road. The consultants would perform all engineering
work, economic studies, field investigations and related work as required,
to attain these objectives.
1.3       Some delay was experienced before the sub-project got started in
ascertaining whether an outstanding dispute relating to payments on a
contract between a German Contractor and the Government of Somalia for
previous work done on the Afgoi-Baidoa Road had been settled. Once this
was resolved, there was no doubt as to the importance of the sub-project



Annex III
- 29 -                       Page 2 of 22
and its feasibility.  The only other delay experienced was in the selection
of an appropriate consultant to carry out the studies and the detailed
engineering work.
Implementation
1.4       The consultants, completed their assigned task in February 1981
and the report was submitted to coincid( with IDA's appraisal mission for
the Fourth Highway Project.
1.5       The report included a technical as well as economic evaluation
and detailed engineering designs for strengthening and improving the road.
Under this study the road was divided into six sections on the basis of
traffic volumes and into seventeen sub-sections of similar physical
characteristics on the basis of surface condition, pavement deflection,
road drainage and construction details. In considering pavement
strengthening and improvement alternatives, the consultants identified two
possible solutions, one for a service life of 10 years and the other for a
service life of 20 years. Based on their technical and economic
evaluation, the consultants concluded, and the Government and IDA (with
some reservation about construction costs) agreed, that the preferred
solution was for a service life of 20 years.
Evaluation
1.6       Of she six sub-projects financed under SO-821 this was one of the
more successful. There is no evidence that the TORs of the study had to be
substantially reformulated.  The consultants that were selected (although
with some delay) performed exceptionally well and their report and
recommendations as mentioned earlier we-e incorporated directly into the
Fourth Somalia Highway Project upon the completion of theirwork. (The
Fourth Highway Project (approx. cost US$43.5 million) was completed in 1985
but experienced serious delays because contractors had not received
payments from the Government of Somalia which had in turn defaulted on
other loan repayments to the co-financier of the project-the Arab Fund.)
The only other comment thet can be made in relation to this sub-project
under Credit 821-SO is the fact that the TOR did not indicate the priority
of this project in terms of its national and economic feasibility.



Annex III
- 30 -                     Page 3 of 22
Sub-project No. 2
Title: Cotton Lands Rehabilitation and Development (Phase I)
Project Review Committee Approval: November 1980
Government Agency: Somalia Textiles (SOMALTEX)
Consultant Contract Signed: January 25, 1982
Project Completed: August 1982
Project Cost: USS 112,176.00
Follow-up Investment: None
Background/Objectives
1.1       From as far back as 1920, Somalia had produced and carried out a
successful export trade in quality cotton. This cotton was grown on lands
alongside the banks of Juba and Shabelli rivers. But since 1950 cultivable
acreagss and cotton yields in Somalia had continued to decline. With the
establishment of textile mills and the increasing demand for textiles,
shortages of cotton and constraints on supplies were acutely felt. It was
also recognized that inspite of numerous potential resources in Somalia,
the country had depended heavily on a single cash crop-bananas. Cotton
and its bi-products such as cotton seed oil and cake were assumed to have
excellent export potential.
1.2       The principal project idea envisaged by the Somali Government
would lead to the promotion of irrigated and rainfed cotton cultivation
with the primary objective of achieving self-sufficiency and the secondary
objective of exporting ereess cotton.  In leading towards this project the
Government wished to carry out studies that would investigate the
feasibility of rehabilitating past and present irrigated cotton production
sites and illustrate the difficulties associated with cotton production
under rainfed conditions. The studies which would form part of this
sub-project was considered to be of paramount importance.
1.3       The study to be implemented was designed to carry out the
following objectives:
a) Define the best development scheme for the promotion
of irrigated and rainfed cotton production in
conjunction with other cash and food crops. It was to
include definite recommendations regarding total
acreages to be cultivated under irrigated and rainfed
conditions and managerial and technical assistance
requirements to ensure production to reach
self-sufficiency and export levels.
bY Investigation of the feasibility of rehabilitating
cotton lands that were irrigated in tne past at
Jamama and Mahadlah.



Annex III
Page 4 of 22
- 31 -
c) In-depth evaluation of the managerial and technical
operations of agricultural development presently
followed in the Balaad Irrigation Project and
provide recommendations for improvement.
d) Study the feasibility of rehabilitating some of the
present ginning factories and provide the best
plans for the most profitable mode of processing
the raw seed cotton crop obtained.
1.4       These objectives as appearing in the TOR and the TOR as a whole
were completely reformulated upon proposals made by the Bank in April
1981. IDA drew a distinction between project feasibility and project
preparation and suggested strongly that the TOR should be specific to a
feasibility study. Project preparation and detailed design, the Bank felt,
should only be carried out after agreement between the Government and IDA
based on the findings and recommendations of the feasibility study. The
Bank, therefore, proposed a cancellation of the original invitation sent to
consultants for proposals and requested another draft TOR that incorporated
fundamental criteria for cotton production such as, history of cotton
production, geology, topography, varieties and cultivation practices,
transport, ginning, marketing, pricing, investment levels, economic
feasibility in terms of competing food crops, institutional arrangements
and research and development capabilities among other considerations.
1.5       During the same time (April 1981), a Bank specialist on the
subject determined that, both in terms of the feasibility of rainfed as
well as upland cultivation of cotton, the sub-project did not merit study.
The specialist suggested, however, that cotton production could be carried
out successfully, but at a cost. He concluded that success would
ultimately depend on effective pest control, crop establishment over short
periods, and utilization of a heavy pre-irrigation system that would retain
adequate moisture for plants to emerge. To accomplish this he averred that
waters from an already over-tapped Shabelli river had to be utilized. He
concluded that this study would have absolutely no utility.
1.6       With acceptance by the Government of Somalia to restrict the
sub-project to a feasibility study and upon preparation of new TOR in June
1981, IDA agreed to fund the study as Phase I under the Credit. In a,ugust
1981, the Proposal Review Committee selected the consultant firm to carry
out the study. In September 1981, the Bank's Regional Mission questioned
again the feasibility of this study. The regional office concurred with
the conclusions of the specialist (April 1981) and added several other
reasons for this view such as the absence of a comprehensive irrigation
policy, water rights laws and an international water treaty (the Shabelli
river waters were shared by Somalia and Ethiopia).



Annex III
Page 5 of 22
- 32 _
Implementation
1.7       Notwithstanding the above reservations, the reformulated study
was agreed upon and in January 1982 (nearly two years after the sub-project
was first approved by the Project Review Committee) the contract for the
study was signed by the consultants and the Covernment of Somalia;
the study was completed and transmitted to IDA and the Technical Department
of the Ministry of National Planning, Somalia in Tuly 1982. The Report
included a technical analysis of where cotton had been, is being and could
be grown in Somalia. It also provided information about the yields of seed
cotton that were presently being obtained under rainfed (about 200 kg/ha)
and irrigated conditions (400 kg/ha). Existing production, which was
mainly based on rainfed farming, according to the Report, amounted to 950
metric tons annually while the raw material needs of the only textile plant
amounted to 11,500 metric tons. To achieve self-si'fficiency, the report
prescribed a doubling of yields under rainfed production and an expansion
of irrigated cultivation from 500 to 4,400 ha while at the same time
increasing yields from 400 kg/ha to more than 2,000 kg/ha.
1.8       The IDA review, however, raised some fundamental problems not
addressed in the report.
(a) The comparative advantage of irrigated cotton production
over irrigated food crop and export production of
e.g. bananas at realistic yields as well as costs of
production using economic prices would need to be
established;
(b) Furthermore the level of investment and the time it
would take to improve the services (extension, crop
protection, input supply, credit) and the irrigation
facilities (rehabilitation and modernization) that
would be required to achieve such yields in private
farming, would need to be spelt out clearly. For
instance, the review doubted seriously whether any
commitment of water could be obtained from the
Shabelli river, even though the Report indicated
that there should be adequate water in most years.
(c) If the intention was that the expansion of irrigated
cotton production would come wholly or partly from
State farms, there was a need to identify which
farms, the managerial constraints and the investment
(machinery as well as irrigation works) were
required.
IDA in November 1982, determined that any further work on this
project would depend on obtaining answers to the above considerations and
the project did not proceed further.



Annex III
Page 6 of 22
- 33 -
Evaluation
1.9       Everything that could possibly be wrong from conceptual errors to
pre-implementation and implementation problems could be identified with
this sub-project.
a) The fact that IDA required a feasibility study as
opposed to a project preparation study was a
fundamental departure from the whole sub-project
objective.
b) That the study was agreed to, inspite of the negative
conclusions reached by a Bank specialist (para. 1.5)
prior to sub-project implementation and further
objections raised by the regional mission (j      1.6),
indicates acquiescence by IDA to a sub-proje    oncept
that it felt was highly dubious.
c) The findings of the IDA review (para. 1.8) of the study
only confirmed the points raised by the Bank
specialist before the sub-project was approved.
Although the review raised more micro-level questions
that needed to be answered, fundamentally the issues
remained the same, indicating that the study was
a waste of resources.
Fundamental errors in procedure were noted when proposals were sent out to
foreign consultants before IDA authorization. This may have been due to
the Borrowers unfamiliarity with Bank procedures.



Annex III
- 34 -                       Page 7 of 22
Sub-project No. 3
Title: Northern Rangelands Development Project Phase II
Project Review Committee Approval: November 1980.
Government Agency Involved: National Range Agency
Consultant Contract Signed: April 1981
Project Completed: April 1982
Project Cost: Approx. US$92,433.27
Follow-up Investment: Known to be the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab Economic
Development (no details available).
Background/Objectives
1.1       The Northern Rangelands Development Project was conceived as an
integral part of the Drought Rehabilitation Program designed to minimize
the adverse impact on inhabitants living in areas that were affected by the
drought of 1973-74. The overall objective of the Program was aimed at
arresting the deterioration of grazing lands caused by decades of
over-stocking, unplanned stock water development and cyclical droughts.
The methods proposed to achieve this were incorporated under Phase I of the
Project which was initiated in 1976 and funded by the Kuweit Fund for Arab
Economic Development. These included the establishment of grazing
reserves, water points, fodder production units and better veterinary care
and training aspects.
1.2       Phase II was called for to ensure the continuity and progress
achieved in Phase I and to implement the recommendations of a review
mission that initially called for a second phase. The primary aim of Phase
II was to prepare an appropriate project document that would incorporate
the ways in which the overall objectives of the project could be achieved
by utilizing the infrastructure already established and the experience
gained from Phase I. The project document envisaged under Phase II was to
be drawn by a team consisting of a Range Manager, Livestock Specialist, and
a Socio-Economic Specialist.
1.3       Quite in contrast with the Cotton Lands Rehabilitation project,
the project concept was easily approved by IDA, on the basis that Phase II
would enable the Bank to gain an insight into the performance of the
project during Phase I and lead to the formulation of a sound Phase II
project preparation document, based on this assessment. The Bank, however,
suggested in February 1981 that besides the three specialists proposed for
the task, an Economist/Financial Analyst should also be engaged, since cost
effectiveness, economic return and financial implications were also
important to judge the feasibility of the project.
This would raise the manpower requirement from 9 man-months to perhaps 12
man-months and would tend to raise the cost of the studies from US$75,000 -
US$100,000. The Bank also suggested the need for more explicit references
in TORs to:
(i) the activities to be evaluated in each field!
(ii) the criteria on which such evaluation would be made.



Annex III
Page 8 of 22
- 35 -
In March 1981, the Bank made the Borrower understand that it did
not mind doing preparatory work for Phase II so long as it was clear to the
Borrower that the Bank was not committed to finance the follow-up Phase II
project itself. More specific details were also enumerated as to what
should be included in the TORs of the Preparation Mission. In this regard,
the Bank particularly requested an evaluation of performance of Phase I and
the impact on both Government policies and development of technologies
suitable for better management of natural resources to be included in the
TORs. A cost benefit analysis of each of the project components with
particular emphasis on livestock exports through Berbera, was also called
for. IDA emphasized the need to include an Economist/Financial Analyst in
the Team and required that the IDA should review and approve the budget and
the final TOR and the contract itself before signing the latter with an
appropriate consultant.
Implementation
1.4       In April 1981, the Proposal Review Committee selected the
consultants to carry out the sub-project and agreed to abide by IDA's
suggestions. IDA approved the consultants and due to some delays in
communication the final approval came only in May with the proviso that the
suggestions made by IDA would have to be incorporated in the consultants
TOR. The consultant agreed to implement IDA's suggested proposals at no
extra cost and final approval was granted in July 1981.
1.5       Very little information is available with regard to
implementaton of this sub-project, since July 198i. A report subr. 'ted by
the Ministry of National Planning, however, states that the appraisal study
began in September 1981, and the draft final report was submitted by the
consultant in April 1982. The report states further that the final report
was reviewed by various concerned parties in Somalia, the Kuwaiti Fund for
Arab Development and FAO headquarters in Rome. According to a general
supervision report of the IDA dated April 1983, the final report was yet to
be submitted to the Bankl (However, senior project officials in the Bank
are of the view that the Kuwait Fund for Arab Development had taken over
Phase II, after the project documents had! been prepared by the team).
Evaluation
1.6       Despite additions and emphasis placed on certain aspects of the
TOR that required reformulations, the sub-project as a whole fitted idea:ly
to the conceptual requirements of the IDA credit. There was also no
protracted debate as to selection of an appropriate consultant or the final
appointment, although again, the Borrower sent out bids for propoasals
before final authorization from IDA.
1.7       It is a regreted  that no follow-up information is available
about this sub-project because this sub-project in its preparation (e.g.
the role of each of the specialists in the Project preparation mission, was
simple and well defined) and execution was designed in accordance with
Credit objectives. No definitive information is available as to follow up
investments or the present status of the project, except reports that the
project is being funded by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Development.



Annex III
Page 9 of 22
- 36 -
Sub-project No. 4
Title: North-West Region Agricultural Development Project
(Test Drilling) (NWAD)
Government Agency Involved: Ministry of Agriculture
Consultant Coutracts Signed: December 1980, and after a change of
consultant, February 1982
Project Completed: March 1983
Project Cost: US$743,089.23
Follow-up Investment: This sub-project became an integral part of the
North-West Agriculture Development Project, Phase I (Credit 635-SO), as a
component of the feasibility study being carried out by the consultants
for preparation of Phase II of the Project. The Project was appraised in
November 1984. The Credit (1538-SO) was signed on February 25, 1985 for
US$ 10.6 million, with cofinancing from the International Fund for
Agriculture and Development - US$ 7.0 million and the European Economic
Community - US$ 5.4 for a total of US$ 23.0 million.
Background/Objectives
1.1       This sub-project was an exception to the normal procedural rules
applicable to sub-projects to be financed out of the Credit. At the time
test-drilling was required, a consultant firm was undertaking an important
feasibility study and providing technical assistance for the North-West
Region Agricultural Development Project (Phase I).  The feasibility study
and technical assistance was to contribute towards Phase II of the project
and had the following objectives.
a)   To raise agricultural production in the rainfed cultivation area
with a view to reducing the cereal deficit in the region, taking
into account, however, the overriding need to check the rapid
deterioration of soil resources by erosion.
b)   To reduce soil erosion and rainfall run off by extending existing
and proposed soil and water conservation measures into additional
areas where they can be justified economically.
c)   To provide support for the development of amall private farms
practicing irrigation, with a view to increasing the production
of fruit and vegetables. Increased production would meet the
present deficit in the region, with possibly a surplus-available
for export.
d)   To provide technical assistance in the implementation of
medium-sized schemes which are beyond the technical capabilities
of the farmers, as well as material and technical support to the
small farms, representing the greatest number which already
practise irrigation using individual wells.



Annex III
Page 10 of 22
- 37 -
1.2       The purpose of the drilling program was to achieve objective (d)
above. recause of the time and financial constraints experienced
under the main project, it was agreed in November 1980, that the
drilling program would be financed out of the Technical Assistance
Credit. A contractor who was already in Somalia was immediately
identified as a potential candidate to undertake the drilliug to avoid
any further delays and supervision was to be carried out by the
consultant doing the feasibility study. The IDA therefore authorized
a direct contract to be signed for the drilling program.   In April
1981, the contract was signed.
Implementation
1.3       The work to be performed by the contractor consisted of executing
a)   16 to 24 exploratory boreholes of which some or all will be
equipped with biezometers. These boreholes will be drilled
in alluvium and fractured bedrock and should not be more
that 50 meters deep.
b)   6 to 10 test wells in the jurassic formations ano on the
sedimentary plateaus. These boreholes should not be more
than about 100 meters deep. Diameters will be chosen so as
to enable the execution of pumping tests.
The boreholes and test wells were to be drilled all over the North-West
region according to accepted specifications. By October 1981, however,
serious problems had arisen between the contractor and the project
management staff and no drilling had t-iken place. When the IDA supervision
mission visited Somalia, it was informed that the contractors had declared
bankruptcy and their assets and liabilities had been taken over by &nother
firm. The new firm had no interest in assuming the contract and the
advance was repaid to Credit 821-SO. Because of additional time which
would be spent in decision making concerning selection of a new drilling
contractor or in putting into effect the technical alternatives proposed by
the consultant that would have resulted in an inevitable extension of the
feasibility study itself and a revision of costs, the mission recommended
that the search for an alterna.tive drilling compaLy be limited to local
shopping or competitive bidding advertized locally according to procedures
acceptable to IDA.
1.4       The search for a drilling contractor resumed and in January 1982,
CVs of one firm were transmitted by the Ministry of Planning for IDA's
consideration. The ministry also tentatively selected a firm to execute
the drilling. In February 1982 IDA expressed no objection and the
consultants made the necessary adjustments in its reporting program to
enable the drilling to take place. The drilling program actually began
only in August 1982, and according to supervison missions overseeing the
Northwest Agricultural Development Project, the contractor was executing



Annex III
Page 11 of 22
- 38 -
the drilling program satisfactorily and well within the budget. It only
suspended work when payments due were not honored by the local authorities,
causing some delays. The drilling program was completed by the contractors
in March 1983, and the consultantssubmitted its final report in November
1983. The report was transmitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and the
IDA subsequently. its findings and contributions played a valuable role in
the design and consequent appraisal of Phase II of the North-West
Agricultural Project which is currently being implemented.
Evaluation
1.5       In every respect this sub-project was a departure from the normal
procedures under which funding was extended under the Credit. The degree
to which convincing criteria were expressed by North-West Agriculture
Development Project (NWAD) officials, the Bank and the borrower to obtain
fundings from the Credit on a priority basis is not quite clear. In the
absence of a TOR, it appears that when the NWAD project required the
drilling to be done and its own funds were depleted, the only avenue was to
obtain uncommitted funds from the Credit (which indeed at that time (1980)
had committed funds for only a few projects).
1.6       The default of its contractual obligations by the original
contractors was a severe set-back for the project and the consultant. In a
sense, this was not attributable to any fault of the borrower or Ba-k
staff, although quick examination of the contractor's profile may have
prevented this outcome. The sub-project however was redeemed by the above
average performance of the second contractor, which led to the satisfactory
report presented by the consultant its resulting contribution to Phase II
cf the NWAD Project.



Annex III
Page 12 of 22
- 39 -
Sub-Project No.5
Title: i. Mogadishu Harbor Subsidence Study
ii. Investibation of Armorlayer o  Brreakwater - Mogadishu Deep
Water Harbor
Project Review Committee Approval: For Subsidence Study: November 1980
For Armorlayer Investigation: Oct. 1983
Government Agency Involved: Ministry of Public Works/Somali Post Authority
Consultant Contract Signed: Sub3itence Study - September 1981
Armorlayer Investigation - January 1984
Project Completed: January 1983 (Subsidence study)
May 1984 (Armorlayer investigation)
Project Cost: US$140,469.16 (Subsidence Study), US$33,484 (Armorlayer)
: Total - US$173,958.65
Follow-up Investment: Both reports and recommendations herein to be
adopted in Proposed Port Modernization Project (Yellow Cover Staff
Appraisal Report stage). Recommended financing by IDA US$22.1 million and
Covernment US$1.8 million.
Background/Objectives
1.1       The new deep-water harbor in Mogadishu was completed in October
1977. Following the completion, subsidence of part of the reclaimed land
behind the port, began to occur adjacent to the line of the breakwater.
Despite some remedial measures subsidence had continued particularly during
the season when winds from the South-East were fairly strong. This became
a serious concern for the Somali Port Authority and IDA itself, (which
partly funded the construction of the harbor) because continuous build-up
of subsidence may reduce considerably the longevity of the structure. The
Port Autherity was particularly anxious to discover remedial measures to
identify the causes of subsidence and discover the most appropriate
construction technique to prevent further subsidence and for the repair of
damages already existing. A study was therefore required to address this
problem.
1.2       The subsidence study to be carried out by an appropriate
consultant would include the following areas.
i)   The history of the subsidence problem. -
ii) A review of documentation such as construction plans, and
surveys.
iii) Site investigation and surveys.
iv)  Major findings which would recommend alternative methods
that are also cost effective.
(The armorlayer investigation was carried out as a result of the findings
in this study).



Annex III
-40-                        Page 13 of 22
1.3       The Bank agreed with the sub-project idea but felt that it was
necessary for the borrower to spell out in more detail the tasks of the
consultants and the services to be provided by them as well as services to
be provided by the Port Authority. These adjustments were made to the TORs
and the Government identified four consultants that could carry out the
study, in March 1981. In April 1981 sector officials of the Bank advised
the Planning Ministry on appropriate criteria that should be used to
determine the most qualified consultant to undertake the task. IDA
guidelines were also transmitted to the Ministry for this purpose. In
August 1981, the Proposal Review Committee selected a firm to undertake the
study and. IDA agreed with the selection.
1.5       In July 1983, two joint inspections of the breakwater were made
by the consultants with the Somali Ports Authority, and by a letter of



Annex III
Page 14 of 22
- 41 -
Sub-Project No.6
Title: Quelea Bird Surveys. Phases I, II, III, IV
Government Agency Involved: Ministry of Agricultn.e
Consultant Contract Signed: Phases I (March 13, 1982), II (October 23,
1982), III (June 19, 1983), IV (July 1984)
Projects Completed: Phases I (June/July 1982), II (January 1983),
III (August 1983), IV (July 1984)
Project Cost: US$432,586.23
Follow-up Investment: Not designed for follow-up investment
Background/Objectives
1.1       Because of mass-scale destructioc of cereals by Quelea birds (one
of the most destructive pests in Somalia) and the very limited success of
Somali authorities in controlling or eliminating them, the Government of
Somalia decided to use aerial surveys of Quelea bird breeding grounds in
order to destroy them before every crop season. The lack of good roads and
inaccessibility to areas infested by the birds, particularly during the
rainy season, made it impossible for ground survey teams to locate Quellea
bird breeding grounds and destroy them before the birds could cause heavy
losses to cereal crops. Hence aerial surveys by helicopter was identified
as the most effectove way to locate the breeding grounds speedily.
1.2       The objectives of the sub-project were two fold;
a)   Study of Quelea migration, nesting and breeding habits for
the purposes of designing improved methods of bird
population control.
b)   Improved crop protection in the country through improved
techniques for the control of Quelea damage to crops and to
advise and train if concerned officials on these techniques.
1.3       The Bank expressed reservations about the project from the very
Inception. It communicated to the Technical Department in February 1981
that the Bank anticipated
a)   insurmountable logistical hurdles in utilizing a helicopter
effectively in rural areas and
b)   that the data gathered would be more sophisticated than
could be made use of in the present state of communication,
technology, data processing and dissemination of technical
information in Somalia.
The Bank therefore suggested recourse to more traditional methods of
collecting data and information with maximum use of the local population.



Annex III
- 42 -                      Page 15 of 22
1.4       A very convincing response was offered in April 1981 by the
Deputy Minister of Agriculture as to the efficiency of the helicopter
surveys in controlling Quelea birds, and he cited in support the ongoing
FAO/UNDP Quelea research program as well as the successful programs carried
out in the neighboring countries of Sudan, Kenya, and Ethiopia. Somalia
according to him was the only country not using this system despite serious
crop damage. IDA accepted this explanation but requested the information
cited by the Deputy Minister and also recommended that the survey methods
be linked to a control strategy that involved field personnel of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Meanwhile the TORs for the survey had already
been released before IDA authorization.
1.5       Once positive informaton was received fror the FAO and the
successful programs carried out in Tanzania, Kenya and Ethiopia, IDA agreed
to the surveys, but emphasized that funds be used only for the survey and
not for spraying. IDA also requested the submission of an acceptable
program on how the results of the survey would be used for control
purposes; and also how the government intended to mobilize the local
population and ground personnel of the plant protection unit and involve
them in the program. Finally the IDA required assurances from the
Government that there would be an adequate supply of fuel for the
operation.
1.6       The Ministry of Agriculture gave them assurances and the
Technical Department made the appropriate adjustments in the Terms of
Reference in July 1981 incorporating the changes requested by IDA.
1.7       Further delays were experienced because of a lack of coordination
on the details of the study; IDA wanted nation-wide surveys as opposed to
selected areas, and when the Ministry of Agriculture accomodated this
request with an increase in the budget, IDA sought clarification. After
these misunderstandings were cleared IDA approved the contract which had
alredy been signed between the Ministry and a contractor with a warning
that IDA authorization should have been obtained before signing the
contract. The contract was signed only on March 13, 1982.
Implementation
1.8       Once the contract was signed, the survey (Phase I) was carried
out effectively. A draft contract agreement for Phase-II for November
'82-January'83 survey was signed and submitted in October 1982. IDA had no
objection to the contract but suggested that the contractor prepare a
complete technical report on the findings of both phases of the survey, and
submit it to IDA, as soon as it was completed. This Phase II was also
implemented.
1.9       Upon completion of Phase I, the Ministry of Agriculture submitted
a report summarizing the findings of this phase. The report indicated that
the helicopter work had substantially improved the efficiency of the Somali
bird control program. It had enabled the aerial spraying of breeding areas
and thus the destruction of Quelea breeding had been successfully carried
out before extensive damage to crops could result.



Annex III
Page 16 of 22
- 43 -
1.10      Amidst delays relating to payment of the contractors the Ministry
of Agriculture requested 200-250 helicopters flying hours for
June-September 1983, and November '83-January '84. In March 1983, the
contractor submitted a technical report on Phases I and II that reiterated
the conclusions of the Ministry of Agriculture. In April 1983, IDA
authorized the June-September'83 (Phase III) survey, and requested a
preliminary report detailing results, cost efficiency, impact and
suitability of alternative control and survey methods. IDA stated further
that the decision to finance the November 1983-January 1984 survey would be
based on this Phase III. The contract was signed in June 1983 for phase
III, and this phase was also implemented. Consequently, a further request
was made by the Ministry of Agriculture in November 1983 for continuation
of the program through phase IV for about 70 flying hours. IDA initially
approved the request, but noted that since little was known about past
performance, the ministry should discuss with the Director General of
Planning and the regional mission how best Lo monitor the progress of the
project. At this point, the Director General too concurred with IDA's
views that the Ministry of Planning had not received any reports explaining
the usefulness of the surveys of the previous three seasons. Since
substantial funds had already been spent in the Quelea programs, the
Director General proposed that the programs be suspended until the
usefulness of the previous phases had been established. Further attempts
were made to rekindle interest in the surveys due te pressure from Ministry
of Agriculture. Finally, in July 1984, IDA agreed to allocate US$48,000
for the July-September 1984 season (Phase IV), subject to review of
quotations and the draft contract. The contract was duly signed and the
survey was carried out.
Evaluation
1.11      The early delays for the start up of this sub-project were due to
two reasons. First, IDA questioned its feasibility and was convinced of it
only after acquiring expert informaton from outside sources. Second the
Terms of Reference also had to be clarified. It appeared from the
inception that the Bank had no rasident expertise on the subject and was
hesitant to fund the various phases during each season.
1.12      By its very nature implementation of the sub-project was time
consuming because of the seasonal application of the surveys. While the
Bank did complain about the lack of reviews of the comleted surveys, it was
apparent that some impact had been made since the Ministry of Agriculture
forcefully sought funds from the Credit for surveys every season.
1.13      The sub-project during its latter stages reflected a lack of
coordination and cooperation between the Ministry of Planning and the
Ministry of Agriculture, which communicated directly with IDA during
pre-survey negotiations. The Ministry of Planning was for the most part
left out of the process. When the Ministry of Planning, therefore,
recommended a suspension of the surveys in November 1983, it not only
indicated a lack of coordination and cooperation between the two ministries



Annex III
- 44 -                    Page 17 of 22
but also indicated a lack of priority that was attached to the sub-project
by the Planning Ministry, which itself had proposed the sub-project in the
first place in November 1980.
1.14      There is no evidence that a formal project on Quelea control had
emerged out of the surveys. Nevertheless, it may be concluded that the
surveys were productive in aiding local ccntrolling activities that were
simultaneously carried out.



AuneS 11.
Page 18 of 22
- 45 -
Sub-Project No. 7
Title: Agriculture Inputs Survey
Project Approval By the Technical Department: December 27, 1981
Government Agency: Ministry of Agriculture
Consultant Contract Signed: February 21, 1983
Project Completed: December 1983
Project Cost: US$252,000
Background/Objectives
1.1       This particular sub-project was orginally conceived as two
separate studies:
i) Agriculture Input Supply and Services and;
ii) Study and upgrading of the performance of the agriculture
cooperatives.
The objective of the first study was aimed at the improvement of the
capacity and quality of services rendered by the Farm Machinery and
Agricultural Services Organization (ONAT) so that this organization could
better serve the interests of the agriculture industry throughout the
country. The method of achieving this goal was in the consolidation of
ONAT to provide substantial amounts of agricultural machinery and
implements, adequate supplies of spare parts and agricultural materials,
improvement of means of transport available to ONAT, establishment of
workshops, offices and stores and technical training of staff. The
objective of the second study was aimed at gauging the performance of the
agricultural cooperatives in the country and identify the constraints
affecting their performance. The study would recommend ways for better
organization and modernization of agricultural production in the country
so that farmers would benefit from the advantages associated with
large-scale enterprises for the production and marketing of farm inputs,
the provision of credit and extension service and the use of heavy farm
machinery and equipment, farm income would increase, and there would be
more efficient utilization of agricultural resources. These two
sub-projects were combined to constitute a single study upon the
recommendations of IDA.
1.2       Upon examination of the separate TORs, IDA, in February 1982,
endorsed the need for a comprehensive study for Agricultural Input Supply.
IDA, however, suggested that the study should address fundamental
strategies/issues affecting the concerned services in general, and the
needs of various projects, currently being implemented in Somalia,
including Agricultural Extension, the Bay Region and the North-West
Agriculture development projects. IDA suggested further that it would



Annex III
-46-                         Page 19 of 22
be prudent at this stage to design a study which would identify choices and
alternatives as to how the servlces could be delivered to the farming
communities. IDA recommended in the circumstances that thie TORs should be
combined and comprehensive TOR be prepared to address the status of these
services in the country, the role of the private sector, the needs of
various projects and zones and the suitability of alternative choices e.g.
to strengthen existing or establish new servfces in the foreseeable
future. IDA thereafter referred the Ministry of Planning, to the Regional
Mission in Nairobi regarding the implementation of the sub-project.
1.3       The draft comprehensive TOR (combining both studies) were
submitted to IDA in July 1982, after delays that occurred due to the
confusion of coordination between the Borrower, Bank Headquarters and the
Regional Mission. The main objective of the revised TOR was to formulate
and evaluate alternative proposals for improving the supply and
distribution of agricutlural inputs, tools, machinery, equipment and spare
parts, and veterinary and livestock supplies needed at the farm level. A
comprehensive breakdown of terms of reference was also included for the
prospective consultant. The study envisioned a nation-wide approach but
required analyses and proposals to focus on Somalia's most productive
agricultural regions. In this regard the work outline recommended the
inclusion of analysis into the following areas:
a) Farm machinery and implements;
b) Agricultural and veterinary supplies and materials; and
c) The organization and management of existing services.
Part II of the study was to address prices, logistics, institutional and
policy questions, financial issues, including the options available and
outlines of and terms of reference for feasibility studies to be carried
out prior to making investment decisions.
1.4       In July 1982, IDA assisted at the request of the Government of
Somalia by supplying a possible list of consultants that could undertake
the study. But there were considerable delays in hirng the appropriate
consultant and it was not until December 1982 that a firm was selected by
the Technical Department to undertake the study. IDA concurred with the
decision and permitted the Technical Department to negotiate with the
selected firm. In February 1983, the contract was finally signed.
Implementation
1.5       Minor delays were experienced by the consultants in initiating
the project because of the delayed appointment of the livestock specialist
to the team. However, the study was started in March/April 1983, and an
interim report entitled, Agricultural Inputs and Services Study was
submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and IDA for their review in June
1983. A draft final report was submitted in December 1983.



Annex III
Page 20 of 22
-47-
1.6       The findings of the consultants generated a number of important
issues, among which the main one was the suggestion that agricultural
inputs had declined sharply in Somalia. This was attributed primarily to
the lack of foreign exchange. This suggestion was seriously qustioned in
November 1983 by Bank staff who felt that reduced imports of Inputs did not
indicate a shortage of these inputs in Somalia, since there was evidence of
considerable mismanagement, underutilization of existing supplies,
inefficiencies in input marketing and distribution.
1.7       This issue was considered to be of major concern because if the
conclusions of the consultant could be affirmed it would support the case
for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) largely to finance import
of inputs, which IDA was considering. If, however, the conclusions could
not be confirmed, then the ARP would have to be seriously reconsidered. In
order to resolve this issue a special mission was sent to Somalia. Among
the many recommendations made by the mission, it was suggested that there
was a need for selective input support, but that before a project could be
considered a more detailed study would be needed of specific input
requirements. It was pointed out in this context that the consultant's
projections had short-comings because they were based on government
estimates and not on detailed field studies of input requirements.
1.8       The final report was to be further reviewed by a Somali/IDA
meeting and an Agriculture Sector Review Mission. Considerable debate,
however, was stimulated within Bank ss:aff and regional staff in relation to
the exact scope of a future agriculture inputs project in Somalia. It
appears finally that the Agriculture Rehabilitation Project did not
materialize. Instead the findings of the consultant on agriculture inputs
and related issues have been incorporated in the Somalia Agriculture Sector
Review, which was recently concluded.
Evaluation
1.9       Pre-implementation problems again related to agreement on TOR.
In this case two separate TOR were reformulated into one. This of course
resulted in delays. Further delays were also experienced because of
communication and coordination problems between the borrower, IDA
Headquarters and the Regional Mission that was entrusted with the general
supervision of the sub-project.
2.0       While it was agreed that the consultant's report had a few
shortcomings, and a lack of in-depth analyses in certain areas, it was
agreed nevertheless that the report did help to identify important factors
that initially contributed to a project idea (Agriculture Rehabilitation
Project) and then towards the Agriculture Sector Review of Somalia (1986).



Annex III
Page 21 of 22
- 48 -
Sub-Project No.8
Title: Juba Valley Interim Storage Pre-Feasibility Study
Government Agency Involved: Ministry of Juba Valley Development
Consultant Contract Signed: September 26, 1984
Project Completed: September 1985
Project Cost: US$191,590.47
Follow-up Investment: The study found that an Interim Storage Project in
the Juba Valley would not be economically viable.
Background/Objectives
1.1       This sub-project was also generated unconventionally, and was a
result of a Bank mission to Somalia in April/May 1983, to review the Juba
Valley Development Program. One of the missions findings was that, due to
existing and projected water shortages in the Juba Valley during the dry
season, and the time that it would take for the proposed Bardhere Dam to
come on stream, even under the most optimistic assumptions, there was an
urgent need to consider an initial interim storage project in the Juba
River. The government reluctantly agreed to the mission's recommendation
as part of a general agreement about the approach to the Bardhere Dam
project reached with the donor community during a meeting of the
Consultati%e Group for Somalia in October, 1983.
1.2       The objective of the sub-project was to execute a prcfeasibility
study for an Interim Storage Project in the Juba Valley. The Bank prepared
and agreed with the Government (primarily the Ministry of Juba Valley
Development) the terms of reference and a shortlist of consulting firms;
the contract with a consultant firm was signed in September 1984. Although
IDA does not appear to have reviewed the contract before signature it did
not object and confirmed that the study could be financed out of the
Credit.
Implementation
1.3       The study got underway immediately, but problems arose with
respect to disbursements because of what appears to have been poor
communications between the Ministry of National Planning and the Ministry
of Juba Valley Development. The Somali Ministry of National Planning
lodged a protest with IDA stating that they were surprised to receive a
disbursement request out of a credit without prior knowledge of the
contract. The Ministry wanted all projects under the Credit to be in
accordance with agreed procedure.
1.4       The interim report of the consultants stated that one of the
options was the building of off-stream reservoir but the final report did
not provide adequate grounds for an Interim Storage Project in the Juba
Valley.



Annex III
Page 22 of 22
- 49 -
Evaluation
1.5 -     Given that the study was, in a sense, a condition laid down by
the donor community for their further consideration of the Bardhere Dam
project, which was and Is c';nsidered by the Somali Government as the corner
stone of their development strategy, and was therefore urgent, the
Government showed good faith in carrying out the study. Against this
background, it is not surprising that there was less complete coordination
and cooperation among operational ministries. Ultimately the findings of
the study vindicated the Government's position that the Bardhere Dam
project is the only viable solution for the development of the Juba Valley.



