FILE  COPY                                 Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-22 75-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 12, 1978
This document ha a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offieil duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be discioi withot World Bank authorization.



SOMALIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CY77 and March 1978)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
US$1                          So.Sh. 6.295
So.Sh. 1             =        US$0.159
So.Sh. 1 m           =        US$159,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Somali Democratic Republic
Amount:               US$3.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard
Project               A three-year program to help finance project preparation
Description:         studies leading to high priority investment in the econ-
omy and to expand the capacity of Somali institutions to
manage preinvestment work. The main risk would be that
implementation of the Project may be delayed because of
difficulty to recruit a suitable Project Advisor for
the Technical Department.
Cost and              The Project will cost US$3.8 million of which US$3 million
Financing:           would be in foreign costs.  Financing for the foreign costs
will be provided by IDA and the Government will cover the
local costs.
Estimated             The proceeds of the credit will finance up to 83 percent
Disbursements:       of approved contract costs, and disbursements are estimated
as follows:
FY79     FY80      FY81
1.0      1.1       0.9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of US$3.0 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report 1421a-SO) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 18, 1977. An informal updating of economic
information took place in May/June 1977 and the next IDA economic mission is
scheduled for June 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic was formed in 1960 by a merger of
the former Italian Trust Territory of Somalia and the British Protectorate
of Somaliland. Following a decade of parliamentary rule, the Government was
taken over by the military in 1969. The Supreme Revolutionary Council, con-
sisting of army and policy officers became, in fact, the highest policy-
making body until mid-1976 when it was abolished and a political party, the
Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party, was formed and became the key political
institution.
4.        Since 1970 the Government has adhered to a program of "scientific
socialism", emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development through
the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the
formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that
there is room for private initiative in Somalia and several privately financed
projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to development
of the public sector. The Government's development efforts have been charac-
terized by austerity and self-reliance.
5.        Somalia is located on the Horn of Africa with three thousand kilo-
meters of coastline on the Gulf of Aden on the north and the Indian Ocean on
1/   This section is the same as that of the Mogadishu Water Supply Project.



-2-
the east. The topography varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, which gives
way to sparsely wooded savannah, to rugged mountains, agricultural plateaus and
lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Much of the country is arid; water
supplies are scattered and often unreliable, and periodic droughts bring hard-
ship to both the people and their livestock. Only a small proportion of the
land, approximately 13%, is arable. While the existence of several minerals
has been confirmed, exploration is still in the early stages and commercial
viability remains to be proved. Short of other known resources, Somalia's
prospects center on agricultural and livestock development in which progress
will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources.
6.       - With an estimated per capita income in the order of US$110 in 1976,
Somalia is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries of
the world. Of the total population of approximately 3 million, about two-
thirds are nomads and semi-nomads, who depend on livestock for their livelihood
and about 20-25% are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli
rivers and in the higher-rainfall North-West region. The small monetary sector
of the economy provides only limited opportunities for employment. Apart from
the traditional export of livestock, commercial agriculture is mainly centered
on the production and export of bananas, in which Italian concession holders
are still important, and the production of sugar for the domestic market. The
expansion of manufacturing and other service sectors of the economy is limited
by the small size of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and the shortage
of capital and entrepreneurial experience. No income distribution data exist,
but the Bank estimates that about 70% of the population live at subsistence
levels of about US$200-250 per family of five. Social services are still very
inadequate; the school enrollment ratio was until recently among the lowest
in the world but took a great leap forward in the past two years. There is
little economic data on Somalia. Even basic figures such as GNP, population,
number of livestock, or output of major agricultural crops are only rough
estimates. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to measure economic perform-
ance except in a very rough and ready manner.
Political Changes and their Economic Consequences
7.        The effect of recent political events on economic development pol-
icy in Somalia is bound to be rather limited because of the lack of alter-
native strategies to the one currently followed. However, some change was
perceived in recent months as evidenced by a revision (and liberalization)
of the law on foreign investment of 1960 and the reappointment of a tech-
nician as Chairman of the Planning Commission.
8.         Since various state enterprises (such as the Chisimaio Meat Factory
and the Las Koreh Fish Factory) were organized with Soviet assistance, the
departure of Soviet technicians will cause problems in these firms and in the
Planning Commission, which also received Soviet personnel. However, the real
need for replacements is estimated to be substantially less than the number
of departures (estimated at 200-250 civilian technicians).



-3-
Development Planning Achievements
9.        The long-range objectives of the Government are strongly influenced
by the desire to be self-reliant. The Government is seeking to make the
country self-sufficient in agriculture through both an expansion of the area
under cultivation and the development of irrigation while trying to provide
permanent settlement for many of the nomads and putting considerable emphasis
on modernizing and mobilizing the population. Of central importance for
achieving these objectives are education, rural literacy and self-help programs
such as those in agriculture and public works (referred to as "Crash Programs").
Finally, the Government places emphasis on developing infrastructure, especially
transportation and communications.
10.       Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia must start with agriculture
and livestock as a base. The major development goals of the Somali Government
include self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the partial substitution of other food
imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of the traditional nomadic herds-
men through settlement programs and improvements in livestock production and
marketing facilities. The current Plan's emphasis on irrigated agriculture is
meant to make the country less dependent on the erratic pattern of rainfall,
and assure more stable and predictable increases in output. Attention is also
being given to projects in rainfed agriculture (mainly through the Government-
financed Self-Help Programs, the IDA-financed Rainfed Crop Production Project
under the Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Settlement Scheme and the North-West
Region Agricultural Development Project) which focus on making the best use of
the limited amount of rainfall. Improvements in livestock production and
marketing are being promoted by the IDA-financed Trans-Juba Livestock Project
designed to provide market access to the nomads in the southern part of the
country and the Kuwait Fund-financed Northern Rangelands Project with emphasis
on rehabilitation of the denuded rangelands in the North. The Plan continues
to base its development of industry on the processing of domestic raw materials
to substitute for imports.
11.       The 1974-78 Five-Year Plan, as originally conceived, called for
investments of So.Sh. 3.9 billion and was probably overly ambitious, both
with respect to financial and implementation constraints. Because of inflation,
the cost of carrying out the same (physical) investment program will now
require an additional So.Sh. I billion. A review of Plan implementation after
three years shows (financial) rates of implementation of 46.2%, 40.8% and
77% in 1974, 1975 and 1976, respectively.  If adjustments for investments
outside the Plan (mainly drought relief and rehabilitation) were made, they
would show implementation rates (in financial terms) of about 60% in 1974 and
55% in 1975. In absolute terms, annual investment therefore increased from
about So.Sh. 340 million in 1973 to an average of So.Sh. 500-600 million in
1974-75 and to about So.Sh. 700 million in 1976 which suggests that annual
investment in real terms is increasing. However, it also seems that an
essentially financial constraint in 1974 has turned into an implementation
constraint in 1976. The implementation constraint is particularly acute as
the result of a sharp exodus of skilled Somalis to the neighboring oil-
exporting countries.



- 4 -
12.       The Government's achievements over the past several years have been
impressive by any standard. Before the present Government came to power in
1969, the economy was stagnant and the Government often in severe financial
difficulties. Today the pace of development (as measured by public investment)
has quickened and a far higher level of public services is being supplied.
13.       Two fields where the Government's achievements have been particularly
outstanding have been in the settlement of nomads and in education. Within
a period of less than one year beginning in the summer of 1975, more than
100,000 nomads were transported from the arid rangelands of the North and
settled on unutilized agricultural areas in the South. Small harvests have
already been reaped and this has encouraged both the Government and the
settlers. In education, the Government has concentrated on two aspects:
basic education (literacy and numeracy) for all people, young and old, to
enable them to effectively participate in the social, economic and political
process, and specialized manpower training as a requirement for national
development. With respect to the former, the mass literacy campaign conducted
in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 at a cost of So.Sh. 100 million (US$16
million) has resulted in an increase in the adult literacy ratio from about 5%
to about 50-60%, according to Government estimates. The formal primary school
enrollment ratio has risen from less than 15% of the relevant age group a few
years ago to approximately 34% at present, and universal primary education may
be reached by the mid-1980's. A script, introduced by the Government in 1972,
made the writing of the Somali language possible for the first time, and this
removed one of the major constraints to progress in the field of education.
With respect to manpower development, the Government is concentrating on the
training of high- and middle-level personnel in its principal development
sectors--agriculture and livestock.
Recent Economic Performance
14.       Poor rainfall in 1973 and a virtual absence of rain during 1974 and
the first half of 1975 led to widespread crop failures. The drought hurt
exports of livestock and bananas, the two largest earners of foreign exchange,
and resulted in large imports of maize, sorghum, rice and sugar. The entire
central and northeastern parts of the country were affected, as well as a
large part of the population, mostly nomads. In 1976, the Somali economy
experienced a further slight recovery from the effects of the serious drought
of 1973-75, mainly on account of continued expansion in Government expenditure,
which contributed to substantial increases in overall investment and consumption.
15.       Since 1973, production and exports of bananas have continued to
decline and export volume in 1976 amounted to 72,500 metric tons, only 54
percent of the 1972 level. It is expected to have fallen further in 1977,
partly because of a disruption in exports to the Middle East on account of a
commercial dispute. Because of a flood which seriously affected growing areas
in late 1977, recovery of production and exports of bananas may be delayed
further. A partial recovery in output of local food grains was evidenced by
increases in marketed quantities in 1976/77 when the Agricultural Development
Corporation purchased 54,000 tons of grains, up from 45,000 tons the previous
year, but only 55% of the predrought level.



-5-
16.       Somalia's manufacturing sector consists of a few relatively large-
scale, public-owned enterprises and a large number of small private enterprises.
In 1973, the public sector accounted for about 80% of value added in industry
then estimated at US$20 million. Most of the industries are agro-based,
depending upon locally produced raw materials. After making strong progress
in the period 1968-70, industrial production stagnated from 1971 to 1973 but
appears to have picked up since. Several investments were made in the latter
period such as a brick factory, a flour and pasta mill, grain mills, and a
corrugated carton factory. Existing plants, especially the sugar complex and
the textile factory, were expanded and modernized. Also, increased fishing
capacity is contributing to the improved performance of the fish factory.
Construction has started on a 500,000-ton oil refinery financed by Iraq.
Shortages of technical and managerial staff and in some cases lack of domestic
inputs have resulted in underutilized capacity, and the recent departure of
Soviet technicians is aggravating this problem in specific industries.
17.       Somalia's fiscal performance has continued to be encouraging, and
budgetary savings will remain an important goal of the Government. Together
with the many self-help projects, the country's efforts to help finance its
investments provide evidence of commitment to self-reliance. Since 1971 when
the Government succeeded in reversing a ten-year history of budget deficits, a
surplus has emerged every year (approximately $5.2 million in 1976). However,
the increasing supply of Government services nation-wide and the recurrent
cost implication of recent large public investments will make it increasingly
difficult for the budget to generate substantial savings.
18.       To raise Government revenues will probably require a reform of the
tax system and identification of new sources of revenue, including measures to
mobilize remittances of Somalis working abroad. In addition, ways of improving
efficiency in parastatal enterprises are necessary to turn them into larger
and growing sources of public savings. A World Bank mission recently studied
state firms and discussed its findings with the Government. Further assistance
to Somalia in this matter is being contemplated.
19.       Somalia's balance on goods and services has been in deficit since
Independence. The gap has grown from US$18.6 million in 1970 to US$110
million in 1976 and US$154.2 million in 1977, largely as a result of rapid
growth in merchandise imports.  Imports (f.o.b.) have risen steadily from
US$56.8 million in 1971 to US$153 million in 1976 and US$193.5 million in
1977. 1/ The Government's comprehensive import licensing system can only have
a limited impact, since development-related imports (which are not actively
limited) already accounted for 40% of the total in 1974 and undoubtedly
account for a higher share at present while another non-compressible import,
food, accounted for a further 35-40%. Exports jumped from US$31.9 million in
1970 to US$85.3 million in 1975 but have stagnated at about US$80 million in
1/   Foreign trade statistics for 1976 have been revised downward but still
remain provisional; data for 1977 are preliminary estimates based on
returns for the first 10 months.



-6-
1976 and 1977. Also, increasing banana prices more than offset a marked
decline in volume exported in 1975 and 1976 but prices stopped rising in 1977
and export receipts actually dropped. The overall balance of payments in 1977
is likely to show a small surplus (in the range of US$7-8 million) as has been
the case in the last two or three years because of large transfers and net
capital inflow.
20.       In view of Somalia's poverty, external assistance has played a major
role in the financing of investment for the development of the country.
Somalia joined the Arab League in 1974 and mounted a major effort to attract
commitments of funds from the OAPEC countries. The large inflows of external
capital and transfers from 1975 onward indicate that the effort has been
successful. Due to political events, the source of foreign assistance has
recently changed from the socialist block (except for China which maintains a
large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions (continuing
the trend started in 1975) and Western countries, several of which have had
substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
21.       The public external debt of Somalia as of December 1976 (outstanding
and disbursed) was approximately US$277 million. Although a large share of
this debt is on fairly soft terms, the debt service ratio has increased from
3.4% in 1972 to about 9% in 1977, and will probably continue to increase,
because of increased amounts of aid. Somalia's export prospects are rather
poor because of the concentration on two primary products--livestock and
bananas--both of which face problems in expanding production in the long run.
Livestock is subject to cyclical droughts which decrease export supplies and
competition from the Sudan and Ethiopia, and even Australia and New Zealand,
are to be reckoned with in assessing Somalia's future market position in Saudi
Arabia. Banana exports have fallen because of both supply (drought, floods,
poor marketing practices) and demand (increasing competition from multinationals
in both Italy and the Middle East) problems. Diversification efforts have
been attempted in hides and skins and fisheries with limited success but are
bound to receive a setback with the withdrawal of Soviet technical assistance
which was especially important in all aspects of fisheries and processing of
fish. Therefore, in view of the country's poverty and uncertain export
prospects, assistance should be provided on the softest terms possible and
contain provisions for local currency financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA I/
22.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 14 credits totalling about US$96
million of which about 45% have been made for transportation development,
including construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and
associated extensions at Mogadishu. IDA credits were also made for livestock
development in FY74, for a development finance company project in FY77, and
for education in FY71, FY75 and again earlier in this fiscal year. Lending
for agriculture commenced in FY76 with two credits for a Drought Rehabilitation
Project and a North-West Region Agricultural Development Project. No Bank
1/ This section is the same as that of Mogadishu Water Supply Project.



-7-
loan or IFC investment has been made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Performance on ongoing projects generally has been satisfac-
tory. However, as the pace of development continues to rise, absorptive
capacity constraints are likely to become increasingly evident, especially in
the field of agriculture where projects are rather complex and implementation
experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising new projects,
we will pay particularly close attention will have to be paid to implementa-
tion capacity and the adoption of measures to ease this constraint when nec-
essary.
23.       We plan to direct our future efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only at the beginning stage.
Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult
because most of the people in rural areas are nomadic. For these reasons, we
plan that much of our future lending will be in the agriculture and livestock
sectors, and this will be complemented with near equal attention on education.
In the near future we intend to seek Board approval for an Agricultural
Extension and Training Project, a Central Rangeland Livestock Project and an
agricultural project for the Bay region. In addition to these sectors, we
plan to support the Government's industrial development efforts (and assist
in the formulation of an industrial development policy) through our country
economic work and future DFC projects. We also plan to continue assistance,
scheduled to begin with the proposed Mogadishu Water Supply Project, to the
water supply sector.
24.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we recently established,
a one-man resident mission. The mission represents the Bank Group in its
contacts with the Government thus facilitating an efficient and smooth day-
to-day working relationship and assists in coordination of the cofinancing
efforts in accordance with the strategy outlined above.
*          25.        Although the situation in the Horn of Africa is a cause for concern,
the impact of the recent events on our operations has not been much. Only one
project, i.e., North-West Agriculture Development Project, was affected in the
sense that the management consultants invoked "force majeure" and left the
project area. However, since the troop withdrawal in March, 1978, conditions
in Northwest Somalia are returning tc normal and the Government intends to
proceed with implementation of the Project until new management consultants
are appointed.



-8-
26.       Implementation of other projects is proceeding generally satis-
factorily, although some are affected by shortages of qualified staff,
administrative and other factors which sometimes slow project implementa-
tion.
PART III - THE NEED FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Background
27.       During the last few years, Somalia has made considerable efforts in
stepping-up its investment level. Public investment doubled from about $50
million to $100 million per annum in nominal terms from 1973 to 1976. The
above investment has been divided about equally between infrastructure and
directly productive investments. The attainment of the Somali Government's
objectives of rapid growth in output and incomes in the next ten years will
require the continuation of a large investment program. It is expected that
Somalia will receive large capital assistance from external sources, particu-
larly from Arab countries. The net inflow of these external funds is already
high and currently finance about half of merchandise imports. To the extent
that this external assistance is likely to continue - if not to increase - the
capability to identify and prepare projects must be expanded.
28.       In order for a flow of adequately prepared projects to become
available on a sufficient scale and in timely manner, Somalia requires addi-
tional external assistance in project preparation and other pre-investment
work. Accordingly, the Government has requested the Association to consider
a Credit for a technical assistance project to help finance such work. In
order to attract further external funds for investment in Somalia, most of
which are likely to be tied to project financing, Somalia needs assistance
with the identification and preparation of a relatively large number of
projects. The absence of adequately prepared projects in sectors of high
priority is a severe constraint on the absorption of bilateral and other
multilateral sources of development financing.
Planning and Project Selection
29.       The current 5-Year Plan will expire at the end of 1978 and prepa-
ratory work on a 3-year plan covering the period from January 1979 is in
progress. The plan would have the same sectoral emphasis as the previous
plan. It is expected to comprise the shortfall from the previous 5-year plan
and a pipeline of new high priority projects. The 3-year plan therefore will
provide the natural framework from which projects would be selected for study
under the proposed Credit.
30.       Planning is the responsibility of the State Planning Commission
which is under the Office of the Somali President. The Chairman of the State
Planning Commission delegates staff work, through a Director General, to four



Department Directors, i.e., Planning, Technical, Coordination and Statistics.
The Planning Department is responsible for macro-economic aspects of planning,
the Technical Department for microeconomic aspects, including project prepara-
tion, the Coordination Department for the relations with relevant ministries
and agencies, and the Statistics Department for the gathering and processing
of national economic and financial data. A five-man UNDP planning team is
currently engaged in assisting project preparation in the Technical Department.
There are planning units in each ministry and government agency; however, they
are poorly staffed and require assistance of consultants in preparation of
projects.
31.       The Government considers that, at this stage of economic develop-
ment and taking into account the institutional setup of Government admin-
istration, the State Planning Commission is the most appropriate point of
control for directing the flow of funds into pre-investment work. As this
commission exerts a strong influence over the investment allocation a rein-
forcement of financial and technical competence for pre-investment studies
would be a normal extension of the planning functions and would provide a
closer link between planning decisions and project formulation.
Current Pre-Investment Work
32.       Currently, pre-investment work on significant public sector projects
is financed from several sources, but as the following table shows, it forms a
relatively minor proportion of the technical assistance provided to Somalia.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE TO SOMALIA IN 1966/1977
(in number of experts)
Other UN
UNDP   Agencies    EEC    Bilateral 1/  Total   %
Training overseas            32        --        125      553           710    56
Provision of experts         48        20          5      462           535    43
Feasibility studies and
project preparation          5         2         3         2            12     1
Total                   85        22       133    1,017         1,257   100
1/   Excluding technical assistance from USSR.
The Association has also included funds for technical assistance experts and
pre-investment and project preparation studies in most of our projects (e.g.,
Hargeisa-Borama Road, Mogadishu Port, North-West Agriculture, and Education I,
II and III). More recently, Somalis have received two advances under our
Project Preparation Facility for preparation of Port and Water Supply Projects.



- 10 -
33.        For the future, new sources of foreign exchange are required to
finance the large expansion in pre-investment work which is necessary to
take advantage of the expanded investment opportunities. Although the re-
quirement is difficult to quantify, even one percent of the cost of a $200
million per annum investment program would require expenditure of $2 million
per annum. The requirement is likely to exceed this amount by a substantial
margin. Among the sources of finance to meet this requirement are the size-
able technical assistance programs of Italy and the European Economic Com-
munity. Other bilateral agencies are also expected to contribute. The UNDP
is likely to continue its assistance for project preparation work, but it is
not expected to be able to extend it beyond the present level.  There are,
and will continue to be, many other calls on these funds and in view of the
rapid increase in costs of consultants' services, there will be an unfilled
gap.  The proposed credit will help to meet the immediate needs and assist
in strengthening the institutional framework for pre-investment activity.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.        The proposed IDA Credit of US$3.0 million would help to finance
a program of project preparation studies for the Somali Government over a
three-year period. The Project would also assist in expanding the capacity
of Somalia's institutions to execute pre-investment work. The Technical
Department of the State Planning Commission would administer the funds pro-
vided, under the general supervision of an inter-agency Committee, on which
the Bank Group would be represented. It is proposed that the IDA credit
would finance up to 83 percent of the cost of studies of the projects se-
lected, which approximates to the likely foreign exchange cost. The Gov-
ernment would contribute 17 percent of study costs, and in addition would
finance the administrative costs of the project institutions.
35.       The following table summarizes the Project's costs and the financing
arrangements.
Foreign    Local    Total
--------US$ '000     …
Project Costs
Consultancy services                  3,000       600       3,600
Administrative costs                    --        200         200
3,000       800       3,800
Financing                                                              %
IDA                                   3,000                           79
Government                                        800                 21
3,800   100



- 11 -
Over the three-year period, studies requiring between 50 and 60 man-years of
consultancy services would be financed. Provision has also been made to allow
the IDA Credit to help finance training courses relevant to the development of
Somali institutions concerned with pre-investment work. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by 1981.
The Studies to be Financed
36.       The general criteria to be applied would be that the projects
selected for study have a high priority in relation to the Government's
development objectives and a high expectation of being financed within a short
time. Projects would not be limited to any particular sector, and would be
open to financing from all sources. While projects being presented to the
State Planning Commission for consideration for further study would be in
different stages of preparation, and it will be undesirable to impose strict
selection criteria related to their stage of preparation, it is not intended
that the credit be used to finance basic studies of a general nature. Use of
the credit would be restricted to studies closely linked to an anticipated
investment decision. Before a decision is made to use the IDA credit to
finance studies, consideration would be given as to whether they could be
financed by another national, bilateral or multilateral agency.
37.       IDA staff have discussed possible studies for financing with the
Somali authorities. Assistance in preparation of several major agricultural
and livestock projects is being provided by some external sources, including
UNDP, FAO and IDA as part of ongoing projects. Under the proposed Technical
Assistance Project, further detailed consideration will be required by the
project institutions, but it is likely that high priority would be given to
studies required for infrastructure development and agroindustrial produc-
tion. For example, an important project preparation which could be financed
by the proposed Credit would be the rehabilitation and extension of port
facilities in Berbera. Berbera is a very important port for the exportation
of livestock; the estimated foreign exchange cost of the preparatory work for
a suitable project would be about US$0.5 million. Another important project
to be considered could be construction of a road from Borama to Zeila and
then to Djibouti. This would provide an important trade route between Somalia
and Djibouti (foreign cost of preparation work would be around US$0.5 million).
38.       In the area of agroindustries, examples of project preparation which
could be considered under the proposed credit are cultivation and production
of edible oils from oilseeds and vegetables. Although some edible oil is
produced in the country, Somalia has been importing increasing quantities
of edible oil. Suitable projects in this field could possibly reverse this
trend. Other possible projects would be production of dates in the North,
production of paper from bagass and banana wastes, production of animal
feed from animal and plant by-products, construction materials, leather and
shoes, production of vaccines and a laboratory for diagnosis and research
of animal diseases. These studies have different levels of priority and
further analysis is necessary to select the higher priority items. While



- 12 -
pre-investment work of this diversity has widely different costs, and it is
very difficult to estimate the cost implications of a diversified investment
program, it is clear that several million dollars per annum will be required
to support the level of investment expected. An IDA Credit of US$3.0 mil-
lion would help meet this need over a period of approximately three years.
Training
39.       An important objective of the Project will be to assist in estab-
lishing an expanded body of expertise in the field of project selection and
preparation in Somali official and private institutions. To this end on-the-
job training courses would be prepared and implemented by the Project Advisor
(para. 41).
40.       With assistance of the Economic Development Institute, the Somali
Institute of Development Administration and Management will conduct a two-
month Agricultural Project Analysis course in Somalia during October-December,
1978 for training Somali officials. Training courses for project analysis in
other high priority sectors such as agroindustries, transport and industry are
under consideration and the proposed Credit could be used to help finance
training relevant to the objectives of the Project.
Organization and Procedure
41.       Responsibility for implementing the Project would rest with the
Technical Department of the State Planning Commission and a Project Review
Committee (see Terms of Reference described in Annex IV). The Technical
Department is currently preparing pre-investment studies similar to those
envisaged under the proposed Project. The Director of the Technical Depart-
ment would be assisted by an internationally recruited Project Advisor who
would assist in supervision of project preparation work and training of
Somali staff. This duly qualified, experienced and competent advisor will
be appointed with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association (see
Annex V) before effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01). The Technical Department would also continue to
be assisted by the five-man UNDP team (para. 30), staff from planning units
from operating ministries and agencies on a part-time basis, and short-term
consultants as and when required.
42.       The UNDP team comprises of experts in key subsectors, i.e., an
Irrigation Engineer, a Livestock specialist, an Agronomist, an Agricultural
Economist and a Civil Engineer. UNDP intends to extend services of the above
specialists by another two to three years. During the negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Government would continue to deploy the UNDP team in
the Technical Department as indicated above; and, in the event the UNDP Proj-
ect is not renewed, five similar specialists would be recruited with terms
and conditions of employment and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04).



-13 -
43.       The Project Review Committee would consist of senior officials
from the State Planning Commission, a senior official of the Ministry of
Finance, a senior official of the Somali Development Bank, the Resident Rep-
resentative of the Bank Group, the Resident Representative of the UNDP, and
such other senior officials of the operating ministries and agencies as are
appropriate depending on the projects under consideration. The above Com-
mittee will be chaired by the Chairman of the State Planning Commission or
his designate. The Project Review Committee will coordinate pre-investment
activities and exercise general supervision over implementation of the Proj-
ect. The allocation of the proceeds of the IDA credit would be subject to
the approval of the Project Review Committee.
44.       For each sub-project selected, a working party will be established
under chairmanship of the Director of the Technical Department, with staff of
this Department and other technicians from relevant ministries and agencies.
Consultants would be employed by these working parties as and when particular
expertise is required. The working parties would be responsible for analyzing
projects in terms of economic priority and technical and financial feasibility,
defining the need for additional analysis and a schedule for the execution of
the works, preparing terms of reference for necessary studies and agreeing
with the responsible ministry arrangements for the supervision of the executing
firm or agency. Requirements for coordination with other ministries and
agencies would be identified and agreed. In cases where a financing source
has already been tentatively identified for the project, it would be consulted
about the preparation requirements. The Project Review Committee would be
consulted prior to the invitation of proposals from agencies and/or consultants
for the execution of the studies, and for approval to conclude a contract for
these services.
Procurement
45.       The selection of agencies or consultants to execute the studies
financed by the proposed credit would be in accordance with the Bank Group's
usual procedures as outlined in the publication "Uses of Consultants by the
World Bank and its Borrowers" (April 1974), and contracts exceeding $50,000
in value would be subject to prior approval by the Association (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). Contracts for studies would normally be
with the State Planning Commission.
Disbursements
46.       The Association would disburse 83% of the cost of consultancy
services for the studies, or such other lower percentage as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower.
Risks
47.       The main risk would be that implementation of the Project may be
delayed because of difficulty to recruit a suitable Project Advisor for the
Technical Department. To reduce this risk, the Association is assisting
the Somalis to recruit the above advisor.



- 14 -
Project Implementation Capacity
48.       It must be expected that a country, which expands domestic investment
as rapidly as Somalia has done, will experience implementation constraints, in
the provision of managers, technicians and skilled craftsmen; in the construc-
tion industry; in the availability of transport capacity and other infrastruc-
ture needs which can only be overcome over time. The manpower and training
needs of Somalia have been analyzed in a recent ILO report and the Government
is urgently considering how to meet these needs as part of an education sector
review now in progress. The Third Education Credit provides assistance for
training specialized skills and the forthcoming Education IV Project would
include much larger assistance to help ease the manpower constraint. In the
field of construction, we are considering assistance to the National Construc-
tion Company to expand its capacity and a project for this purpose is under
consideration, perhaps through the medium of the Somali Development Bank. As
in the case of several ongoing projects e.g. Mogadishu Port, and Hargeisa-
Borama Road, outside contractors will often be required for the larger
projects. So far as transport constraint is concerned, the Government has
geared a large part of its investments to the sector. In agriculture, where
projects are complex and implementation experience is limited, we are consid-
ering an Agricultural Extension and Training Project which would help to ease
the manpower constraints through training of extension workers and farm man-
agers. In the meantime we may assist Somalia in recruiting consultants for
implementation and monitoring of various projects. We also plan to carry out
an agricultural sector mission in FY79 which would identify and propose other
measures to overcome implementation constraints in agriculture.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
50.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Annex III of this report.
51.       An additional condition for effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement would be the appointment of a duly qualified, experienced and
competent advisor with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
,to the Director of the Technical Department in the State Planning Commission
(para. 41).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 15 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 12, 1978






TAfJI U                                                 ANEX I
SOMALIA            - SAL INDOCATORS DATA SHEET                                 Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KtM2)                           SOMALIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      637.7                                      MOST RECENTr
AGRIC.     299.0                       9G0       *n70  E9STIMATI          ETHIOPIA       TANZANIA       SENzGAL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     70.0*    69.0*    110.0*L              70.0*      100.0*ja  270.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR. MILLION)            2.2       2.9        ML/              24.6        12.9         4.4
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       3.0        4.0       *. O/             20.0        14.0       22.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO         7.0       0.0                         3t.0        2S.0       55.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUODE BIRTH RATE U/THOU. AV)       47.3       47.7      47.2               50.3        S0.5       47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.6      23.6      21.7               23.7        23.0       24.4
INFANT PORTALITY RATE l/THOU)          ..        ..         ..                 .     160-165
LIFE EX..iCTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)     3S.1       36.S      41.0               36.5        41.9       40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..        3.0       3.0                 2.9        3.2         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE I%)
TOTAL                                2.0        2.4       2.4                2.1         3.0/a      2.6
URBAN                                2.9        6.1       4.4                6.0         5.6        S.0
URBAN POPULATION  % OVF TOTAL)         IC.0      25.6      23.3                9.6         S.5/b      29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCtliT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      43.8       46.5      41.0               43.0        44.4/b     41.2
IS TO 64 YEARS                      *3.5       S1.6      53.0               54.3        S3.0/t     S4.9
6S YL..RS ANO OVER                   2.7        1.,       2.0                2.7         2.67       3.9
AGF OEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9       0.a        0                 0.6  O.S9b              0.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.t /a    1 2L       1 2/ b            1.L         1.21        1.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..        ..         ..
USERS (X Of IARRtED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         SS0.0    1100.0    1250.0             10600.0            ___g
LABOR tORCE IN AGRICULTURE CX;        *9.0       U2.0      77.0               6s.0        9'0/a.   73.0
UNEMPLOYED IX OF LASOR FORCE              .      20.0/b       ..               2.9               -    7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
x Of PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..                 .        33.5
HIGHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..                ..        63.3
LONEtS 20% Of 4OUSEHOL3S               ..        .*         ..                ..         2.3
UOlfSt 401 Of HOUSNOLoS                ..        ..         ..                           7.6
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..         ..
X OWNED 6. SMAALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           33220.0   21420 0   15760 0             73300.0    21570.0/1  16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3700.OIb  3260:S.- 2000:0 /C-d        2340.0tk   4600:07    2680.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          630.       580.0     I70.0k            2960.0       700.07a      I0 .07W
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REDuIREMENTS)        77.0       80.0      79.0               92.0        73.0       91.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAY)             17.0       17.0      5  1               69.0        43.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSE        19.0/C    27.0       2.0                21.0        23.0       2I.0d
DEATH RATE U/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..        ..         ..
*   EOUCATION
AD4USTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        5.0      10.0      34.0               17.0        3S.0       43.0
SECONDARY SCFJOL                      1.0       S.0       3.0                4.0         3.0        10.0
YFEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0      10.0               12.0        13.0       13.0
VOCAt IONAL ENROLLMENT
(C OF SECNDOARY)                       ..        ..      14.0                4.0        10.0L       9.0
ADULT !.ITERACY RATE (I)                 ..       5.0       50.0/f               ..         ..        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        ..         ..
OCCUPIED OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (l)                        ..        ..         ..                ..        30.0/b,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
CX OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY Cl)                     ..        ..         ..
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         12.0      16.0       22.0                6.0       11.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0/C     2.0        3.0                2.0        3.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            1.0      10.0       13.0               21.0       31.0        73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..       0.2        0.2                0.04       0.1         0.1
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNCX I
Peg  I of 4 pag
pr
Utia. eocharbi noeted, data for If0 rofer to an  year b.cweo 1959  rd 1fl1, for 1970 beteen  f194  and 1970, and for moat Recent Iatimata
beawe, 1973 and 1975.
a a"  per capita 4de anr baoed an the World huk Atlo   sthodology (1974-76 beat).
se senegal has boon selected so on objective country bveai    of ito different 00cio-OcOnmIc structure C nd Ai ilar *_ni-rid ecology
and population eise.
3EdLIU   l f960   /L   Ratio of populaheo   mdr 15 bd 65 and oar to total labor force;    Lk  Zlluding ofiis and assistant nurnac;
Li 1963.
1970    o  PAtio of population under 15 and 65 led o"r to total Iabor force;              a   Urban only;    /e  Including nidwive.
and aaal tent nudrcea;    id  194f4
MOST ICiM  ESTIMAT;    /a  1971:    ;   Ratio Of population under 15 and 45 ad over to total labor force;    Ic  1971;
Li  Ialud.W aidwive  and aesiatent nuros;    /e  1972;    /f  Gaevrent *etimae.
WIOPIA        1970   a   Rtio of populacien under 15 and 65 and oer to total labor force;    /b  Including midwivee.
TANZAN       170   /a  Mainland Tansania;    /b  1967;    /e  1965;    Li  An percentage of urban householda.
SENEGAL      w1970   /.  Ratio of population under 15 a*d 63 and owr to total lsbor frce:   Lb  Including assistant nuraba;
Goverwnt hoepital escablishments;    Ld  1964-46.
gi, Doc_eber 30, 1977
inmrrx   or soxa nmxcrvu
Land Area 'chuy4 lans.latfoe neA M ur tir  Dero  - Pepulatin divided by lumerotf pvrcticing
TDCi - Total surface are  ceopriatng land ore  sd inlad  _o.                                 n        Ca *   ae   adua r   ur   "trasined"r "certifeId" sure..  s ad
M- hot rees c_c"imes of agricultural a*e  ue  td moraerily or poe-                   e_milfary peramoAl with training or aeperienee.
neam yto   r crop., paDcura, n at  kice   ge                 t      tfrdese or to iso folly.  P;sr F       eilt   bdd - P.      tm dividd by a r Of hespital beds
avaible *La publia and prive  gseeral ed aecialised beepial *and
Gxr      Ca:tL. U SJJ - GcnPO? per captt  otlonteo  Ot eurre    Bt    Crhabiltation ncat; amladee  mmag kmw   ad enablbobtots for
*Iless Om an*_*ion  tbed  *e Vword Z                alwo (1t73-75 basis)            avaedial _n  ftw4tl   cars
1940; 197t so  1975 data.                                                                       iromo  c                   _                 _ __         d    or_y
eqairaleet of me food suppliaa avalcae  in counery per capita per day;
Ponalaroen ead vital statistics                                                              available supplia. conprias dosestis prod,.tion, Ieports loea experta, nad
Io  mttioa (aid-year  -illioal   An of July ftr et  tf ne available, saveate                 chsg   in atock,   t seppiiea aecLud  a*nxml fend, tom", qotttioe  ,ued
of two sd-year estimates; l 60, 1970 ad 1975 det,.                                         in fond preasfa  sd losses In dittrilhAtlon; treqaiNats  mre aCeit_,ed
by ?AD bonedO on11phy0ie1lagical ned for newel ancivitya bealtch conaLd-
?neujlption dca v - wor Squaes  WE - Mid-y_er _pplaioem pe  "ere  btlEnter                   ewbi  svi_emcal tmwetwo * bady Might. l -a  en  eoa  dis tributlae  of
(lOv hectAren) of total  r                                                                 poPlati, _   el_n  Ig   fee mr et  at how helId level.
Poculation dwait, - per                        Lener?1 of aeri. lond - Cspuced as above for  Per cnita *uI of creti  (rm car del - Pretes content of per capita
agriouLcural land oay.                                                                     net a;ply ofood               m    uply of fe  to defined en abo  ;  require-
to  for e*I CeitriAn fta_blil8b   by USDA masonic looearch Services
Vtult ss tottocs                                                                             proVIde for a dailmm  *11meme ef 60 arm  *tf total pretein per day. .nd
Crde birch race car t ad _       vernee - A_1e  live births per thmbed of                    20 grin of asinel   * pls, protein, et wbtich 10 gItl skhol4 be  omitl
eid-yaar population; ten-year ariemtsa, eragos __in  in 1940  d 1970,                      proeiu; bee_  sc aa     ace lnr than those of 75 grn of total protaten
en  five-year avera  ending In 1975 for  ea   met estimate.                   _a  2J3 gri oft *n1ma  protein *r  n averag  far the wrld, proposed by FAO
Crude deach rbase or theiaand. veraen  - Ameal doetb per cbtea_d of aid-year                 i  the Third  erld Food Surey.
population; ta e ar  rilntic   wrg   eding in 1970 MA  170a  five-                       Pe=eitg orotnia  u"ol froamlned ase_i%             * Protein *auply of food
year  er_   aedice ti  1975 for   e ct mc    tt.                                           derived  Lr         a sd _                 per F da.
nt nsorrullc, rato (Ith.) -   Anual deatet of ifeetnce mder am  yea  of ag                 D*aM4LsoLig             _L._4 -r A      deach, per thenocnd in aeg  group 1-
per tc     d live birthb.                                                                      reroire  is thiSW  Cbtro; snuggocaCd as an  edictcr ot
Slf  aX t er so birth ()  - Avrag  wmbr of yea  of life raitnig at                           __nrrii_.
birth      lly five-year verag   edi  inL  194, 1970   d 1975 for deelop-
rce-v                               namber of live dtebe    a 4  les  Will ber            Adiusted eso IJR"    tc l                          llmat of *11 as"  as per-
ie                          perioer_l r ereducti  prtod if she sprit_   pfce  age-epeific  etteof    ery *            l-g      lt    mne  chtildren  aged *-11 years
ferttityc rate; *a  Lly five-year averagne _    in   in 1960, 1970  _  1975                bet edjusted for differene length of prigry edvcios=; for couacris with
far deeloping ceunien. CreveeL ec_tioe. enrollment ny cmod 100w  sims a*_ pupils are below
Po att_a growtlh nc t1a) - total - Ca _pod amaL grat  rote of aid-ytar                      or aboe  tbh  official school age.
peuaion for 19500  190-710 ed 1970-75.                                                     _      _iutnd  sCmpucads above; scondary
Pecudelati  rrorth ate U  t) - urbrn - Cosptad liw  greb rate of total                            tpequire. a_ tt ltlt feur r         of apred primac  inetuc -;
popuation  different dfinittLoo  of urbos Awoon ay affset empr rabilty of                  proride SOg ral, VeSQtie_l Or tcebe r trainin te intructione for pupila
data a g cnrien *                                                                          of 12 te 17 yern Of eg; c*orerno_*CO *onreen ace generally encludad.
Vrben onoulacn e    of total) - Raio of wrba to total populatin; different             _     a"         *ch!o1     d     III4  a    1sco1nd    es I-  otaol yearm of
definitione      worba amen sy affect cmp       eiUty of data moms ri.                     e.. ;   e                                                 mle bel verl tuc   my h   rially or
e6Mplenly mIncded.
As,     cr; e  fferoest) - Childrn (0-14 years), werki  age (i5-4 ya),                     v gcal ow      olLc_ti   et onder,) - Voconal  t aucit_  include
sad retired  (65  an  en  war) en perenrtDage  of aid-yar  opulation.                      tche          atal or other progri  whicb operate  tdpadetly or 
AgAgidndgnnysratco - Ratio of popuLation uadr  15 ad 65 an  *o_r to thoe                     deparmona of aecondry inrcltutionn.
of as    15 through 6                                                                      dult ittrcyr rce Cl - Liutrate adults  (able -o reed sad w-it.) *  per-
Eernic deendaney ratio - Ratio of population _ r 15 "A  65             oer to                ce e  f         Lc adult Population  gd 15 rome ad waor.
th  Laer fore in  g* grup of 15-4 yran.
F_ilt  lotninr  - eccentors (cu, lative. thou) -  loatcive nmber of ecepeta                Hetc
of birth-control dvices und r   oenpice  of national foily plaoning progre               Pomon cac r moos (urbo) - age mmr of pera   per roe  In occupied
sitns i-ceptiectional dnllitg  tn urban awes; dwellings exclude non-per_nc                                                                                         nt
r-i lv  tlan  - aere t2 of arried -mne) - Percentage. of earted wMe of                       strucuree  _d _noceuptad porte.
chil eri   a   (15-44 years) who .4o birth-control devices to all earriod                Ocecupid decltnn dchout cued 00cmr Cl) - Occupied coevantonal dwelligs
omen in  _m age group.                                                                      in urbn =tsad   f rua   ree  witdhout inside Or etaide Piped water facilites
en prcenamge of all wocupied dvellings.
Emle_at                                                                                     cren to 4Iee trii    7. of  l dIelline) - Covntlonal dwllings with
Total labor fore. (dhema,ndh -  Eonciclly  nti  pereo_, icluding   ned                        eLectrcity   i         n           peret    tofeoal d l         in urb.- -d
lemon a*d unplOY"d but aneluding  heunonive., students, atc.; definittons                  Mral areas.
in va           riens a   not cosperbla.                                                 Rurd deeln    conneczed to eletricitY _) - Conpuced as  bove for rural
Labor fore to  snriculturs C) - Agricultural labor fovet  (in faming, forescry,               dlln   osl.
buntng atnd fishtig) as percentage of total labor fore.
Unsanlovod n% of labor force) - Unsplod are usually defined o  peres nwh                   Conaintion
as bl sA   d willin  to  a  k    Jaob, out af a jb o  a givesn day, reatind our          Radto r icdvre (nor Chou PoP) - All trype of receivers for radio broacadss
of a Job, ond seektag wvrk for a specified elmu  ported sot *ecding in                      to gnra  pub ic per thousan  of population; ecludes  nLienad reciveers
week; nay not be cmpeprnble between counrien de   to different deftinitio                   In countrin sod in 7asn whn  registration ot radio sets wa  In effect
Of _ANloVyd and soUCe of data, e.g., Mplayint office steCiAtlic, Semple                     data for recent yrsr  may set ho csprable sice  oet eounatries abhlishad
s*ve., cdopuleos  unemploymnt insurance.                                                    lice Lag.
Ps|anererersr (ea rho,. .0    - Passengor ecar  conprse eatr  ere  -ct uis
Iecom  discributten - Percenaage of private t  nam    (both in cmkh sad kid)                 la  then *iht pereum ;nctudn _bulances, hearsa end " ilicarv
received by rtcheot 51, rithomt 201. ponret 20?, sad poovet et? of hoe_n-                   "hesLeo.
holds.                                                                                    1lectr,*cI:c, (%whrr Per coo) - Annual cnea,mptims of induatrial. comer,t Sl.
hold%etes'al land owmrshlp - Poreenceses of land awo" by weatpublic nd priveca electricity in kilostt hour. per cepirt. generally
Diatrbutton of Land   rch4 - t rcetaget o _d                d by watchie  101                 b_nd on pred  tit n  data,  ithout allevwne for lo          t In grid  bet *llev-
and p°eerea  102 of 1sa  Moore.                                                             Lag fo  Im          an  eaet  of electrIcity.
Newsprint (It/yr per coo) - Per capita euwel ctmptio  In kil9grm
ealth sod Nutrition                                                                           _tcmtsd fron de tite  prodution pLus set iports of  oweprint.
ponulstioo "e    0hv!ic%m  - Population divtded by nwubar of practicing
pheiciad  qualified fro  a nadical school at univeratry level.



Annex I
Page 3 of 4 pages
SOMALI
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (M. constant prices)
US$ Wln.       %                               1961-69              1969-73            1974
GNP at Market Prices (1976)        380.01'    100.0
Gross Domestic Investment
Gross National Saving                **
Trade Balance (1977)              -112.5
Exports of Goods,(1977)             81.0         ..
Imports of Goods (1977)            193.5
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY
Value Added                     Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mtn.                            2M US    S                                %
Agriculture                           ..
Industry
Services                              ..                   ..
Unallocated
Total/Average
1W.O                         100.0                            100.0
GOVERNKMENT FINANCE
General Government                                 Central Government
(SoSh MIn.)         2 of CDP                       (SoSh Mln.)   _     % of GDP
1973       1973        1969-73                     1976       1973         1969-73
Current Receipts                            497.8         ..            ..                      689.4
Current Expenditure                         414.7                                               656.1
Current Surplus                              83.1         ..            ..                       33.33       .
Capital Expenditures                        327.0         ..            ..                     634.1-        .
External Assistance (net)                   247.0         ..            ..
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES-                               1970      1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977
(Million SoSh Outitanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    466       391      518       608       783    1005.1   1100.0   1240.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             100        72       13         5       2.4    -238.2    124.4       46.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector2/                          297      254       315       622       916     934.6    986.4   1001.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as . of GDP                       1.        1.       1.        1.        1.       1.        1.
General Price Index (1966 - 100)                        108.5    108.5    107.4    126.6    151.1    163.0    190.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                      -9.8       0       -1.0      17.9      19.4       7.9     16.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             61.8    -28.0    -81.9    -61.5    -52.0    -98.3         52.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector2/                          27.1    -14.5      24.0      50.2      47.3       2.1      5.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Computed on the basis of an assumed CUP per capita of $110 in 1976 but with a revised population figure of
3.5 million. Data for 1976 and 1977 are either preliminary or estimates.
2/  Private sector here includes decentralized, government-owned enterprises.
3/  This is a preliminary figure; it includes only investments under the Plan.
4/ Source: Central Bank of Somclia: Monthly Report.
5/ All data (except C.O.L. index) taken from IMF, IFS.
not available.
not applicable.
EACPII, EAN
February 22. 1978



SOHALIA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLIWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1974-77)
1974 1,    1975        1976 109   1977 10/                                                           US$ Mln.        .
Exports of Goods, NFS                     55 o2/      88.5         81          81                         Live animals                           47.4        51.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                    157.42'    177.6         153.1       193.5                       Bananas                                12.6        13.6
Resource Gap (deficit - -)              -102.4_      -89. 1                                               Meat & meat products
Services (net)                                                    -38.0       -41.6                       Hides and skins
Interest Payments (net)                    1 95/
Workers' Remittances                      -16.6-      -21.0-'
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                             44.9       119.8         40.9        64.7                    All other commodities                     32.5        35.1
Balance on Current Account               -72.2         9.7        -69.2       -89.4                          Total                               92.5       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                   5.6                                                     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                                                                                                                                      US$ Kln.
Amortization                                                                9_
Subtotal                               55.7        42.1         85.7        96.9                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                   595.5-/
Capital Grants                                                                                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                                                                                    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other Items n.e.i.                                                   0.5
Incre4se in Reserves (+)                 -10.8        51.8         17.0         7.5                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                                                                %
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                    9.0
Fuel and Related Materiala                                                                             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                11.7        19.9                                             Total Outstanding & Disbursed
of vhich:  Petroleum                11.7        19.9
Exports                                                                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Dec. 31. 1977) (Million US$)
of which:  Petroleum
IBRD     IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disburaed                       46.3
Throumh -  1971                           Since April 1973                                             Undisbursed                             .      30.9
US $ 1.00 - SoSh 7.143                    US $ 1.00 - SoSh 6.2957/                                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           ,      77.2
SoSh 1.00 - US $ 0.140                    SoSh 1.00 - US $ 0.160
1/ Estimated debt.
2/ Exports f.o.b.
3/ Imports c.i.f.
4/ Trade balance.
5/  Net non-factor services.
6/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of                 not available
Goods and Non-Factor Services (estimate).
7/  Central Rate (Somalia availe itself of              not applicable
vider margins); the trade conversion
factor used by IMF is 6.233 SoSh/US$.
8/  All factor services (net).                                                                                                                                               N
9/  Disbursed debt at December 31, 1976 was approximately $277 million.
10/  Balance of payments date for 1976 and 1977 are preliminary.
Imports and Exports refer to goods only and services are shown net.
EACPII, EAN
February 21, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1978).
(US$ Million)
Amount       Undisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.      Year    Borrower            Purpose             and exchange adjustments)
(CY)
Three credits fully disbursed                              9.7
123-SO   1978    Somalia    Highway-Supplementary
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)          2.3              0.3
295-SO   1972    Somalia    Highways II (Hargeisa-
Berbera Road)                9.6              0.0
359-SO   1973    Somalia    Port of Mogadishu             12.95             0.0
462-SO   1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock          10.0              6.7
511-SO   1974    Somalia    Second Education               8.0              4.3
586-SO   1975    Somalia    Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2                 0.9
623-SO   1976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation         8.0              7.8
635-SO   1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture        10.0              9.4
698-SO   1977    Somalia    Somali Development Bank        5.0              5.0
699-S0   1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Hargeisa-
Borama)                      7.0              6.4
738-S0   1977    Somalia    Third Education                8.0              8.0
Total                       95.75            48.8
of which has been paid       0.4
Total now held by IDA       95.35



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA 1/
Credit No. 123:      Highways Supplement (Afgoi-Baidoa); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968: Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1969;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
seven times to June 30, 1978.
The construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was completed in
March 1971. The International Chamber of Commerce made an arbitration award
to the Contractor (Joint Venture) on December 3, 1975, in an amount of
DM 11,648.333.04 with interest at DM 1,356.20 per day from December 15, 1975;
a Government counterclaim against the Contractor was rejected. A series of
meetings were held between Government and the Contractor to try to resolve the
matter, the last such meeting, convened by the European Development Fund, took
place at Brussels on October 4, 1977; representatives of the IDA attended the
meeting as observers. No final settlement of the dispute was reached. How-
ever, we have since been informed that a Somali Delegation met a representa-
tive of the Contractor in Bonn on March 22, 1978, and proposed a DM 10 million
settlement and a schedule of payments. The contractor's representative
expressed interest and promised to discuss the proposal with his Board of
Directors and convey their reaction to the Somali Government.
Credit No. 295:      Highways II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of
March 30, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1975 and post-
poned thrice to June 30, 1978.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road was completed in
June 1975. The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the Hargeisa-
Borama road and technical assistance in transport planning have also been
completed. The Project was completed successfully.
Credit No. 359:      Port of Mogadishu; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness; September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
originally June 30, 1977 and postponed once to June 30, 1978.
Credit No. 586:      Mogadishu Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; January 15, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The civil works, including the extension, were completed in
October 1977, six months behind schedule. Several outstanding claims of the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
contractor were settled in July 1977 and paid in full in April 1978. The port
operating equipment has been delivered. Because of the continuing shortage of
skilled staff in the country as a whole, the Somali Port Authority continues
to face problems in finding staff with the necessary skills to take full
advantage of the training aspects of the consultancy services provided under
the credit. As a result of the recommendations made by the consultants,
tariffs have been revised.
Credit No. 462:      Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Stock route and ranch development have made good progress but bore-
hole drilling and the veterinary assistance component are delayed. Restricted
Government financial contribution is creating a working capital shortage. FAO
has supplied an irrigation engineer, and 4 senior staff have been recruited by
the Livestock Development Agency directly from India. A recent transfer of
the Project to the Ministry of Industry and the resignation of the Project
Director and an engineer are matters of concern which are being discussed with
Government.
Credit No. 511:      Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institute are about a year behind schedule due to staffing
shortage of the Project Implementation Unit and delays in establishing cri-
teria for locating the Nomadic Training Centers. Construction contracts have
now been awarded for 19 of the 22 project institutions and disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly as a result. Latest cost estimates indicate an
overrun of about 3 percent which is manageable.
Credit No. 623:      Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation, especially procurement of vehicles and
equipment and land clearing, is slow, mainly due to high turnover of consult-
ancy staff; 6ne settlement location as originally selected is unsuitable. The
interriverine study financed under the Project points to a much lower irriga-
tion potential than previously expected.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 635:      North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
In view of the military situation in North-West Somalia, the manage-
ment consultants have left the Project area in February 1978 invoking 'force
majeure', but Somali staff continue project implementation; procurement of
equipment is on schedule. New management consultants are expected to be
appointed shortly.
Credit No. 698:       Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
This Credit was declared effective on February 27, 1978.
Credit No. 699:      Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, has been awarded and consultants engaged to carry
out supervision. Technical proposals, from a short list of consulting firms,
for provision of services covering feasibility study for the Dinsor-Bardera-
Gelib road have been submitted to the Government and the Association is
awaiting an evaluation report on consultants' proposals and the Government's
recommendation regarding selection of the consultants.
Credit No. 738:      Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13,1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
This Credit was declared effective on March 13, 1978.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project                3 months
(b)  Preparation                                  Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA                 July 1977
(d)  Appraisal mission                            November 1977
(e)  Negotiations                                 April 1978
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                November 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
The Director of the Technical Department would be assisted by a
full-time expatriate advisor who would be appointed before effectiveness of
the proposed credit with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
(para. 41).
The Government would deploy the UNDP five-man team in the Technical
Department and in the event the UNDP Project is not renewed, five full-time
specialists will be recruited with terms and conditions of employment and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association (para. 42).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
SOMALIA: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PART A: Terms of Reference of Project Preparation Team
Purpose
The Technical Department of the State Planning Commission will
ascertain the need for particular high priority studies and will be concerned
with the administration of the funds earmarked for the Project to finance
project preparation work and the provision of technical assistance in the
execution of such work. To enable it to discharge its functions properly,
the Unit will be expected to observe the requirements outlined below:
1.   Organization and Staffing
The Technical Department will organize informal working parties for
work on individual sub-projects. Its staff will include:
a)   Director of the Technical Department;
b)   an Assistant Director, who will advise and assist the Director of
the Technical Department in managing the project preparation work;
c)   eight or more qualified staff members selected from the State
Planning Commission;
d)   members of the UNDP Planning Assistance Team;
e)   on a part-time basis, Somali experts from different
ministries and agencies and consultants and staff
of the Association as appropriate; and
f)   secretarial and support staff.
The Director will be responsible for drawing up the work plan for the pre-
paration work and for preparing and administering the funds earmarked for the
Project, which will be subject to approval at an appropriate level in the
State Planning Commission.
2.   Coordination
In conducting its business, the Technical Department will work
closely with other sections of the State Planning Commission in estabishing
the economic priority of sub-projects submitted to it, and with the ministries
and agencies responsible for the sub-projects in the analysis and supervision
of sub-projects. Consultation will also be necessary with UNDP, the Associa-
tion, and other organizations and agencies contributing funds for the Project,
to ensure coordination of all pre-investment activities.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
3.   Procedure for Sub-Prolect Analysis
The Technical Department will ensure that all high priority projects
are being prepared appropriately by the responsible agency, and will be free to
propose financing of preparation work if necessary. The Technical Department
will take the initiative in establishing informal working parties for each
sub-project submitted to it, which will be subject to an initial review to
determine their economic priority in the Borrower's development plans. Once a
sub-project has been tentatively selected, the working party will supervise
all subsequent work on the sub-project. The working party will include, as
appropriate, representatives of ministries and agencies, representatives of
prospective financing organizations and agencies, and consultants employed to
provide technical expertise.
The working party will determine the nature and scope of the studies
required to prepare the sub-project for financing, will help to draw up
terms of reference for those studies and a schedule for their execution, and
in due course help to supervise the execution and evaluation of the studies.
Requirements for coordination with other ministries and agencies would be
identified and agreed with those agencies. If a financing organization or
agency has already been tentatively identified, it would be consulted about
the preparation requirements.
Prior to inviting proposals for the necessary studies, proposals
will be submitted to the Project Review Committee for approval.
The Technical Department will assist in evaluating proposals made
for studies and in negotiating contracts pertaining to the studies. Agencies
and consultants to execute the studies to be financed out of the funds made
available by the Association, and other contributing organizations and agencies
would, with respect to the studies financed by each such organization or
agency, be selected in accordance with the applicable procedures of said
organization or agency, and the approval of the Project Review Committee will
be required prior to the signature of contracts for carrying out the studies.
Contracts would normally be between the consultants and the State Planning
Commission whose Chairman will be empowered to sign such contracts.
4.   Supervision of Project Preparation Studies
The Technical Department will assist in the technical supervision of
studies being executed, will review progress reports, arrange for prospective
financing agencies to be kept informed of the progress and assist in evaluating
the studies on completion.
5.   Terms of Reference for Sub-Projects
In drawing up terms of reference for sub-projects, the Technical
Department will ensure that the Project is analyzed in all its facets and
made ready for appraisal by a financing agency. The scope of the studies



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
required will vary, depending on the nature of the preparatory work done
prior to submission of the sub-project to the Technical Department. It will
be the Department's task to ensure that all the available alternative solu-
tions to an investment need are appropriately analyzed. The studies will, if
necessary, extend to market analysis of investment and operating costs, the
legal fiscal and financial conditions, and management, organization and
manpower requirements. These studies should also include analysis of the
economics of the Project, as well as financial viability, and social cost-
benefit analysis and environmental considerations as appropriate. The sub-
project studies will address the possible problems of implementing the Project
which may emerge and will propose solutions to overcome them.
6.   Training
A major objective of the Project will be to assist in establishing
an expanded body of expertise in the field of project selection and prepara-
tion in Somali official and private institutions. To this end, the Technical
Department will assist in establishing or fostering project preparation
units in ministries and agencies where appropriate. Wherever possible, Somali
institutions or experts will be associated with the agencies selected to
execute the studies, to provide an opportunity for these institutions to build
up their capacity for this type of work.
PART B: Terms of Reference of the Project Review Committee
Purpose
The Project Review Committee will coordinate pre-investment activi-
ties in Somalia and exercise general supervision over the carrying out of the
Project including supervision of the administration of funds made available
to the State Planning Commission for project preparation work and the provi-
sion of technical assistance in the execution of such work. To enable it to
discharge its supervisory functions properly, the Committee will be expected
to observe the requirements outlined below:
1.   Organization and Staffing
The Committee will consist of the following:
a)   Chairman of the State Planning Commission as Chairman;
b)   Resident Representative, United Nations Development Program;
c)   Resident Representative, The World Bank;
d)   Representative of any other organization or agency contributing
funds for the Project; and



ANNEX V
JOB DESCRIPTION
Projects Advisor
Post Title:          Projects Advisor.
Duration:            Thirty-six months with possibility of extension.
Date Required:       July 1, 1978.
Duty Station:        Mogadishu.
Duties:              The Advisor will be attached to the Technical Department
of the State Planning Commission and will advise and
assist the Director of the Technical Department in:
i.  identification, preparation and appraisal of
projects;
2.  ranking of projects in priority order based
on National Development Objectives and
Development Plan;
3.  training Somali counterparts in the job by
designing and conducting in-service courses;
4.  supervision of project preparation with respect
to Depth and Quality of Financial, Technical and
Economic Analysis and suitable presentation;
5.  recruiting of consultants envisaged under the
Project;
6.  setting up and coordination of working parties
envisaged for project preparation; and
7.  other related services as the Director of
Technical Department may require.
Language:            English.
Qualifications:      An advanced degree in Economics or Business Administration,
with practical experience in project analysis in Developing
Countries with particular emphasis on economic, technical,
financial and managerial analysis.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
e)   such other member or members of the Borrower's ministries
and agencies as are appropriate depending on the project or
projects under consideration.
2.   Responsibility and Procedure
The Committee will review the recommendations of the Technical
Department and evaluate them in the light of criteria to be established, in
particular that such sub-projects are of high priority in the Borrower's
investment plans and have a high expectation to be financed within a short
time.  For the agreed sub-projects, the Committee will also work out the
financing arrangements and conditions. The approval of the organizations
and/or agencies financing the sub-projects will be required before proposals
are invited for studies for such sub-projects, and before the contracts
thereof are signed.
The Committee will also be responsible for ensuring a high standard
of work by the Technical Department and adequate coordination with organizations
and agencies assisting the Project.
3.   Proceedings
The Committee will meet regularly at such times and places as its
members will determine and keep adequate records and minutes of its discussions
and decisions.
.



