Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10508
Report No. 10508-MOR Type: ("'R;
MACKIE, T / X31752 / T9053/ OEDT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2110-MOR)
MARCH 31, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Moroccan Dirham (Dh)
Dh 1.00       - US$0.12
US$1.00         Dh 8.5
(Average Calendar 1989)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT     -  Air Dried Tons
DEFCS   -  Direction des Eaux et Forets et
de la Conservation des Sols
FNF     -  National Forestry Fund
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
MAI     -  Mean Annual Increment
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
PMU     -  Project Management Unit
SAP     -   Special Action Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Genee,i
Operatsm EvIluitin
March 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on MOROCCO
Gharb/Mamora Forestry Prolect (Loan 2110-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Morocco - GharblMamora Forestry Project
(Loan 2110-MOR)" prepared by the former Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower.   This project has not been audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attacament
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ICfrOcro
CHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2110-MOR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface            . . . . .
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iii
PART I: PRUJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background ..................... 1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Project Sustainability .................. . 11
Bank Performance .....................  11
Borrower Performance ................... . 12
Project Relationship ................... . 12
Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . 15
PART III : STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in he performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



le~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2110-40R)
PREFACE
This document is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first forestry
project in Morocco, for which Loan 2110-MOR for US$27.5 million was approved on
March 23, 1982. The loan was closed on June 30, 1990, two years behind schedule.
Out of the original approved amount, four cancellatioi.s were made, totalling
US$17.4 million (62 percent of the Loan Amount). The last disbursement was on
November 5, 1990. The remaining balance of US$0.28 million was canceled from the
loan account.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Technical and Operations Divisions
of the former Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report and Implementation Volume, the
Loan and Project Agreements, Supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, Project Progress Reports and experience of project implementa-
tion.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2110-MOR)
Evaluation Summary S
Obiectives
1.        The principal project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), were to:
(a) in5-"-ase roundwood production through new plantations; and
(b) introduce better planning and management techniques for the
forestry sub-secto..
There were several other -.nstated objectives (paras. 7 and 18).
2.        The project comprised:   (i.. stumping and replanting approximately
.0,000 ha of existing eucalypt plantations; (b) reforestation of 10,000 ha of
degraded cork oak V with eucalypts,  Acacia and pines;  (c) constructing,
upgrading or mai,-taining 40 km, 140 km, and 500 km of forest roads, respectively;
(d) pasture improvement in approximately 2,600 ha of woodland; (e) improving
forest research, forest inventory and planning, and training capabilities of the
Direction des Eaux et Forets et de la Conservation des Sols (DEFCS); (f)
initiating specialized studies, including forest inventory, management,
exploitation and financing; and (g) establishing a project management unit (PMU)
with technical, administrative and logistical support (para. 8).
3.        Project identification (two missions) took place in April-October,
1979; preparation (three missions) in June 1980-June 1981; and appraisal in June
1981. A PMU was created in DEFCS, in Rabat, to manage and coordinate t;he
project, although day-to-day field administration was continued by the Forest
Service Chiefs at Kenitra and Kh6misset. A Technical Coordinating Committee was
established but, subsequently, cancelled because its mc ,bers met several times
a week, anyhow, and could easily contact each other by telephone. From early
1986, the project concentrated on stumping and replanting to the virtual
exclusion of most other operations (paras. 9 to 10).
All paragraph numbers refer to the main report.
In 1985, 'degraded cork oak' in this component was replaced by open
areas, maquis or overaged plantations.



- iv -
Implementation Experience
4.        The Loan Agreement was signed on April 15, 1982 and the date of
effectiveness was October 28, 1982.  The project had 14 supervision missions and
the loan closing date was extended by two years until June 30, 1990. Two major
problems, virtually throughout its life, were first, the inadequacy of local
counterpart funding and second, long delays over payment of contractors. Project
operations had been kept simple and retroactive financing used to speed initial
implementation -- apart from addressing fundamental problems in budgetary
procedures and availability of timely and adequate local funds, there was no
other action that could have been taken in the context of the project design to
avoid this problem of local financing.   Revision o" -he r  ge management
component, delays in DEFCS studies and, above all, the Lacreace t  'tue of the
US Dollar against the Moroccan Dirham, reduced project cosL..i equ-  tnt it) dollar
terms. The cost of mechanized land clearance was kept low by contractors who
had no alternative work and whose older machinery had already boen amortized.
Only the use of mineral fertilizers on planted eucalypt plantations (which was
not included in the project estimates) increased, which raised costs.  A Special
Action Program (SAP), which raised the disbursement rate for stumping from 60
to 90 percent, was implemented from June 30, 1986 until the project ended
(paras. 11 to 14).
5.        There were four loan cancellations in November 1984 (US$7.0 million),
August 1986 (US$5.0 million), June 1989 (US$3.0 million) and June 1990
(US$2.4 million).   The system adopted by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) of
collecting vouchers on similar items for payment tended to delay disbursements
in spite of the Special Account that was introduced in mid-1987 (para. 15).
Results
6.        Achievements under the project show that:  (a! 99 percent of the target
area of 20,000 ha of all eucalypt plantations were stumped and prepared for
planting; (b) 72 percent of the 29,383 ha target (20,000 + 9,383 ha) were
planted; (c) the irrigation system at Sidi Yahia nursery was rehabilitated and
annual seedling production raised to 10.0 million; (d) the road program
(25 percent of 40 km of construction, 31 percent of 140 km of rehabilitation and
8 percent of 500 km of maintenance) was executed in only three years; (e) no
office block and 58 percent of the target of 12 houses were con^tructed in two
years; (f) under the vehicle procurement program, 87 percent of 23 four-wheel
drive vehicles and 100 percent of seven trucks were procured; (g) the range
management target of 2,600 ha was exceeded by 373 ha; and (h) in the five main
studies, three (training, forest economy and range management) were done, the
forest inventory was started (to be continued under Forestry II) and the
rationalization study was funded from other sources (para. 16).
7.        The two stated objectives are considered to have been met.   Wood
production of approximately 12 m3/ha/year Mean Annual Increment (MAI) will be
attained  on most  sites,  but  with  two  doses  of mineral  fertilizer,  at
establishment and in the fifth year. Fuelwood production from stumps has risen
from nothing to approximately 50 tons/ha.   Better planning and management
techniques have certainly been introduced by the establishment of the PMU, but
full evaluations of project work must await a properly equipped unit under
Forestry II.   Four unstated objectives have also been met.   They were the



-v -
introduction of:   (a) an adequate system of mechanized stumping for the
Gharb/Mamora area; (b) a genetic improvement plan for eucalypts (introduced in
1987); (c) the basis for an effective system of forest research; and (d) a
:ollow-up project (Forestry II), which effectively acts on and expands the
experience acquired under Forestry T (paras. 17 W.o 18).
8.        All interventions under Forestry I could almost certainly have been
completed or exceeded within the project piriod in the absence of the financial
*       problems of the 1980s.  The range management component was probably the greatest
disappointment. Although it exceeded its project target, it failed to establish
Grazing Associations to impose realistic grazing fees or undertake an adequate
.       census or livestock grazing in the forest.  Further effort is now being made on
a national scale V (para. 19).
9.        Some 80 percent of project plantations were of eucalypts established
on old plantations that had been stumped mechanically or manually and an
evaluation of the rates of return has been made (see Part III, Tables 9 A-B and
10 A-B).    Financial  rates  of return at appraisal  were  only  8.5 percent
(mechanical stumping) and 14.5 percent (manual stumping), but were much higher
at the end of the project, i.e, 19.9 percent and 22.9 percent for mechanical
ztumping (depending on one or two fertilizations) and 33.9 p-rcent and 36.5
percent for vanual stumping (one or two fertilizations). The difference is due
partly to the fact that the present calculation does not include indirect costs,
such as fire protection, roads, etc., as opposed to the appraisal calculations
buu, particularly, to the substantial increases in output prices, especially for
the stumps sold at the beginning of the plantation (DH 5,000/ha in 1988/89
compared to DH 600/ha at appraisal). The degree to which world prices of wood
have affected the rates of return is shown by the Economic rate of return, which
was 25 percent at appraisal but 35 percent and over 40 percent for mechanized
and manual stumping, depending on the number of fertilizations (para. 20).
10.       Stumping by manual labor as opposed to mechanical means is shown to
be more economic (the two are not strictly comparable, because mechanized
stumping provides deep and thorough soil cultivation, unlike manual work) and,
in any case, manual removal cf stumps requires 400 man/days/ha, i.e., two million
man/days work to clear 5,000 ha/year (5-6 months) for planting. Two fertilizer
doses are clearly shown to be more economic than one. The impact of this project
on Moroccan forestry, although undoubtedly positive, cannot be properly assessed
until Forestry II is completed as it is literally a continuation of Forestry I
(paras. 21 to 22).
Sustainability
11.       All of the major operations under Forestry I are sustainable.   The
objective of the follow-up project is to increase and improve these benefits
(paras. 23 to 24).
1/    see appropriate footnote to Table 7, of Part III.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.       (a) Management of forest resources requires both a long-term strategy
and an integrated approach, covering both policies and program
across a number of institutions (paras. 18, 22, 25-a);
(b) Bank financing, even at high disbursement rates, does not guarantee
that sufficient funds will be available for a specific project;
in Morocco, this needs particular attention and continuous follow-
up to ensure adequate budget and release of funds already budgeted
(since the Forest I Project, this situation has been improved)
(para. 14);
(c) Identification through inventory of areas of forest degradation
and deforestation is a necessary pre-condition of finding effective
remedies (para. 18-d); and
(d) Continuity of staff by both Bank and Borrower has a positive
impact on project execution -- it makes for more efficient
operations and facilitates the writing of the Project Completion
Report (!) (para. 27).



PROJECT COMPLZTION REPORT
lforO!CO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2110-MOR)
PART I. Project Review from the Bank's PersDective
Proiect Identity
Name                   Forestry Project
Loan Number           : 2110-MOR
RVP Unit              : EMENA Region
Country                 Morocco
Sector                  Agriculture
Background
1.        Some 5.8 million ha of Morocco's total land area of approximately 71.0
million ha, or about 8 percent, are occupied by forest, mainly in the north-
west, where the climate is cooler and more humid than elsewhere in Morocco. By
1990, forest plantations occupied just over 0.5 million ha and there were about
0.5 million ha of Acacia spp. along water courses in the south and 3.2 million ha
of esparto grass in the eastern extremities, under the jurisdiction of the
Direction des Eaux et Forets et de la Conservation des Sols (DEFCS), the
Direction in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in charge of forest management.
2.        Although difficult to quantify, the forests' main contribution to the
economy is almost certainly ecological, namely safeguarding water supplies,
agricultural production and wiidlife and restricting soil erosion including, in
the s'',   desertification.  Forestry is estimated to add about 2 percent to the
coun' '. gross domestic product (GDP), which is 12 percent of the agricultural
val;. cided and equivalei. to approximately DH 2.7 billion V, if the unrecorded
cont. t.ution to Morocco's forage and energy supplies are included. Unlike the
majority of North African and Middle Eastern countries, Morocco exports forest
products, which in 1987 comprised wood pulp: DH 333.0 million (69 percent of
the total), cork products: DH 87.0 million (18 percent) and processed products -
mainly imported wood: DH 63.0 million (13 percent); total: DH 483.0 million.
Until the latter half of 1986, all wood used in pulp manufacture was local.
Appraisal exchange rate: US$1.0 - DH 5.3
Average annual exchange rates during project implementation: 1982 - 6.0;
1983 - 7.1; 1984 - 8.8; 1985 - 10.1; 1986 - 9.1; 1987 - 8.4; 1988 - 8.2;
1989 - 8.5.



3.    In 1979/81 there were sevetal readily identifiable faults in Moroccan
forestry that needed rectification. Technical improvements to Morocco's only
pulp mill, ac Sidi Yahia in the Gharb/Mamora, in the 1970s had virtually doubled
its annual capacity to 100,000 air dried tons (ADT) of pulp so that its annual
pulp wood consumpt.n needed to be raised to 345,000 m3 under bark (u.b.),
whereas yields from eucalypt coppiced plantations needed to be increased by
replacement of old trees (after the third coppice rotation yields dropped
appreciably) with another higher-yielding provenance. It was estimated that some
10.0 million m3 of fuelwood were taken, often illegally, from the forest each
year, which was at least three times greater than the sustainable yield and, in
consequence, approximately 20,000 ha of forest were believed to be lost annually.
Although nearly all natural f -6. bJelongs to the State, local and nomadic human
populations traditionally exe-K  3d F-:azing rights in these areas.  The Moroccan
forest was estimated to provide 1,5 J million forage units (FUs) V or 18 percent
of national stock requirements each year), which largely prevented natural
regeneration and contributed to the genera1 degradation of vegetation. There
was a serious lack of investment in the forestry sub-sector.  Although public
investment was increasing (from DH 213.0 million in 1973-77 to DH 893.0 million
in 1981-85), commun,al reinvestment of 20 percent of its funding from forests (one
of the alternatives under the law of 1976 that gave gross forest revenue to local
communes) into forest operations was rare, the National Forescry Fund (FNF) was
being wasted by interest-free loans to communal authorities and private land
owners for reforestation and forestry clearly needed additional sources of
financing.   Finally, there were a lack of data on Moroccan forests (only 20
percent of which had been subjected to detailed inventory and mapping) and little
resource planning within DEFCS.
4.        At the time of project apprais'l, there was apparently no stated forest
policy or strategy for forest developnent, but Government objectives were
summarized in the five-year development plan (1981-85) and reproduced in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as follows:
(a) increase wood production by (i) establishment of 50,000 ha/year
of fast-growing tree species; and (ii) application of a more
rational and production oriented management of Moroccan forest
resources to reduce imports of forest related products and increase
exports of pulp, cork and alfa grass;
(b) maintain through improved forest management, the forests'
conservation of soil stability, prevention of erosion and
protection of water catchments; and
(c) increase th'e supply of fodder to livestock by improved
sylvopastoral management.
5.        By June 1981 (project appraisal), there were two operational Bank
projects in Morocco with forestry/soil conservation components i.e. Fes-Karia-
Tissa Agricultural Project (Ln. 1602-MOR, FY78) and Loukkos Rural Development
(Ln. 1848-MOR, FY80) - a further project with similar components and objectives
was added one year later (Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development,
.1/    Nutritionally equivalent to approximately 1 kg. of barley.



-  3-
(Ln. 2217-MOR, FY83) and an agricultural project with numerous forestry
components (management planning, assisted regeneration, exploitatioi, insect
control, etc.) had just been appraised (Middle-Atlas Agricultural Development,
Ln. 2082-MOR, FY82).  Neither of the two operational projects had been under
implementation sufficiently long to provide much guidance in the forestry
project's preparation. Details are provided in 'Table 1. These projects have
been generally satisfactory (all except Oulmes-Ronmani are now completed) in
spite of the fact that n.any of their proposals were implemented after the 1983
Moroccan budget crisis and svffered continuous, complementary under-funding.
The project periods of them all have been extended; the Fbs-Karia-Tissa Froject
suffered particular delays to enable completion of the component on watel.
supplies to areas of difficult access.
6.        The Forestry Project was implemented during a period of financial
crisis, then austerity.   Following approximately two decades of conservative
ecor.omic management, Morocco began an expansionary fiscal policy to finance
increasing defence expenditures and public investment.   In consequence,  the
country's external debt rose from US$1.8 billion Ln 1975 to US$13.9 billion in
1983, when it represented nearly 120 percent of GDP and at which point the
Government imposed emergency restrictions and curtailed public expenditure.
Extensive stabilization and adjustment policies were prepared and supported by
a series of three IMF standby arrangements (1983-88) and Bank structural and
sectoral adjustment loans (in industry, agriculture, education, public
enterprises, among others). Considerable improvements were achieved, but at a
cost of greatly reduced public investments, including reduction in funds
available for the forestry project.
Proiecn Objectives and Description
7.        The principle project objectives, as stated in the SAR, are:
(a) increase roundwood production through new plantations to provide
short fiber pulp wood to the existing pulp mill at Sidi Yahia in
the Gharb and provide part of Morocco's increasing demand for
construction and industrial timber and fuelwood (the increased
production would result in increased exports of pulp and reduce
imports of tiLJer); and
(b) introduce better planning and management techniques for the
forestry sub-sector, which would result in increased productivity
of forest as well as supply of forage for livestock.
A further aspect that took an increasing importance as results of
project studies became available was the definition of elements required for
effective forestry management. This in turn became important input into the
preparation for the follow-up project (Forestry II).
8.        The project comprised the following:
(a) stumping and replanting of about 20,000 ha (18,400 ha of
mechanized stumping and 1,600 ha of manual stumping) of existing
low-yielding eucalypt plantations in Gharb/Mamora area;



-4-
(b) reforestation in the Mamora forest area of about 10,000 ha
(actually 9,383 ha) of degraded cork oak forest with
approximately 3,000 ha of eucalypts, 3,500 ha Acacia mollissima
and 3,500 ha of pines;
(c) up-grading and constructing, respectively, of about 140 and 40
km of forest roads and maintaining about 500 km of selected
plantation roads over the project period;
(d) pasture improvements on about 2,600 ha of open woodland;
(e) improving the research, forest inventory/planning and training
capabilities of DEFCS;
(f) carrying out specialized studies including forest inventory,
management, exploitation (including charcoal production) and
financing; and
(g) establishment of a project management unit together with
technical, administrative and logistical support.
Project Design and Organization
9.        Project identification required two missions, which took place over
six months (April-October 1979), preparation required three missions over the
course of eight months (June 1980-June 1981) and appraisal took place in June
1981 (Tables 2 and 3).   The preparation report (March 1981) was primarily
concerned with plantation establishment and contained no other proposals. The
majority of the latter and supporting annexes, including a review of the sub-
sector, was prepared during and after appraisal and included in the SAR and
Implementation Volumes (February and December 1982).   As the first forestry
project in Morocco, it encompassed institution building (research, training and
studies) but excluded controversial issues such as possible solutions to
conflicts between cultivation, livestock and forest development, which it
considered should first be tested in agricultural development projects. In fact,
a sylvopastoral component was added during appraisal. The Project Brief (June
1981) referred to a possible future national forestry project in which industrial
and socially oriented project initiatives might be tried (which is what,
subsequently, happened under Forestry II).
10.       A Project Management Unit was created in DEFCS (in Rabat) to manage
and coordinate the project. Its day-to-day field administration continued to
be undertaken by the Provincial Forest Service Chiefs of Kenitra and (in part)
Khemisset, with some additional staff. A Technical Coordinating Committee S was
established and met quarterly, but was cancelled by the Minister in late 1985
when he assumed the position of Directeur, DEFCS, as the majority of its members
met several times a week and could easily be contacted by telephone.   The
1/    Comprising the Director of DEFCS, his five Division Chiefs, the two
Forest Service Chiefs, the Chief of the Rural Affairs Division of the
Ministry of Interior (MOI) and the Project Manager.



Minister also decided, at the same time, that the project should concentrate on
stumping and replanting to the virtual exclusion of all other operations. The
Project Manager has retained regular contact with the National Forestry Council
(which should meet at least once a year) and the Provincial Forestry Councils.
The Provincial Service Chiefs maintain regular contact with the Communal
Councils.   In the appraisal report, no co-financing was anticipated, but in
practice, French bilateral aid was mobilized for genetic improvement
(para. 17-b) and the rationalization study (para. 17-d).
Proiect Imglementation
11.       Loan negotiation took place at the beginning of February 1982, it
received Bank approval on March 23, 1982 and the Loan Agreement was signed on
April 15, 1982. The date of effectiveness was delayed from July 14 until October
28, 1982, because enactment of the decree of approval was delayed (Table 2).
Fourteen supervision missions were undertaken in all.   Management/technical
problems (primarily concerning the composition of PMU staff and technical
problems associated with mechanical stumping) were listed initially, but
thereafter (end of 1983 to early 1990) finance (para. 12) was indicated as the
principal problem (Table 3). The project was extended by two years, until
June 30, 1990, ostensibly to complete or exceed certain targets but, in fact,
to complete stumping contracts that were entered into in August 1987.
12.       Two major problems that confronted the project virtually throughout
its life were the inadequacy of local counterpart funding and, as a separate
problem, the delays over payments of contracts, which destroyed any sense of
urgency in land preparation by contractors and seriously delayed achievement of
planting targets (para. 8). These delays were due to the fact that e\-.n when
items were budgeted, and contracts signed and work therefore started, funds were
not actually available.   In some cases, contractors simply walked off jobs,
awaiting payment for work already done. There was no action that could have been
taken by the Bank or Project Management to avoid this problem.  The proiect
operations had been kept very simple and there was retroactive financing for land
preparation of 1,935 ha, undertaken in 1981/82, for planting to speed initial
implementation. From the time of the mid-term project review in February 1986
further work on roads, buildings and procurement of vehicles and equipment ceased
and physical operations were virtually restricted to stumping and plantation
establishment  (para.  16).    In addition  to  these  reductions  in  targets,
procurement of a road grader was abandoned. Revision of the Range Management
component resulted in substantial savings in pasture improvement operations
(Table 8), consultants of virtually all of the DEFCS studies, project fellowships
and proposals for the rationalization study were cancelled and the forest
inventory study was long delayed. The use of mineral fertilizer on eucalypts
planted in areas that had previously carried them was probably the only source
of increased project costs (para. 17-b).
13.       For the most part, project physical achievements were less than targets
(Table 6) but, even so, unit costs were normally well within appraisal estimates
(road construction and rehabilitation were the only exceptions). The increase
in value of the U.S. dollar (para. 2) provided considerable flexibility in
disbursements. For the most expensive project operation of land preparation,
prices in 1981 and 1982 were well within appraisal estimates, in spite of a rise
in the price of diesel oil. By 1983, they were 30 percent lower than appraisal



estimates, primarily because contractors bid lower than expected as they had no
alternative work available and some of the older machinery had already been
amortized. Total costs normally rose with each contract but, by August 1987,
the average was still only DH 6,141/ha (i.e. risen from DH 4,802/ha in 1981).
14.       One of the major reasons for low disbursements was the increase in
value of the U.S. dollar against the Moroccan dirham (DH 5.3, at appraisal rising
to an average of DH 10.1 equivalei.z to US$1.0 in 1985).  To increase the rate
of disbursement and, hopefully, the speed of land preparation, the project was
included in the first Special Action Plan (SAP I) and the disbursement rate for
stumping raised from 60 percent to 90 L,ercent. It was applicable to expenditure
incurred from November 1, 1983 to June 30, 1986. It was subsequently extended
under SAP II to the project's original closing date of June 30, 1988 and retained
when the project was extended to June  30, 1990.  In spite of the increased
disbursement rates, however, budgets were still inadequate to carry out the work,
and funds budgeted were still not always available S.
15.       There  were  four  project  loan  cancellations  in  November  1984
(US$7.0 million) and August 1986 (US$5.0 million), associated with recalculation
of the expected project costs at the introduction of SAP I and SAP II. A third
cancellation occurred in June 1989: the Bank proposed US$4.5 million but the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) cancelled only US$3.0 million, on the assumption that
the forest inventory consulting firm would require more funds than it did. The
final cancellation was associated with the closure of the loan in June 1990 and
was for US$2.4 million. There was, in fact, a fifth cancellation of unused funds
at the end of the project (November, 1990) of US$275,543 (Table 5)   A Special
Account of US$2.0 million was established around mid-1987 to speed disbursements,
but the MOF system of collecting together vouchers for similar operations before
submitting them to the Bank for payment actually delayed disbursements.
Proiect Results
16.       The annual physical aims (para. 8) and achievements of the project,
1982-1990, are shown in Table 6. Some 99 percent of the target area (16,408 ha
of mechanized stumping and 3,400 ha of manual stumping V of 20,000 ha of
eucalypt plantations) were stumped and 72 percent of the target (21,248 ha of
29,383  ha)  were  planted.    Only  old  eucalypt  plantations  were  stumped;
reforestation of the 10,000 ha of natural forest (para. 8-ii) involved cutting
trees or shrubs manually, followed by clearance by tractor and harrow and
planting, with fertilizer if necessary but, in fact, all eucalypt planting was
in open areas.  The irrigation system at the existing forest nursery at Sidi
Yahia was rehabilitated (a new well was dug) and seedling production was raised
to 10 million/year. The road program (25 percent of 40 km of construction,
The lack of available local budget was due to the fact that the
budgeting procedure did not give priority to foreign-financed projects
nor to projects where the proportion of foreign-financing was high.
Poisoning of stumps (as opposed to physically removing them) prevented
. coppicing -- but the scumps and roots were still physically present ten
years later.



-7-
31 percent of 140 km of rehabilitation and 8 percent of 500 km of maintenance)
was executed in on' three years; the building program (no office block at Tiflet 1J
and seven out o.L a target of 12 houses constructed) in two years and the
procurement of vehicles (87 percent of the target of 23 four-wheel drive
vehicles, 100 percent of the seven trucks and no motor-grader) was undertaken
in one year (1982-83).   The range management target of 2,600 ha of pasture
improvement was exceeded by 372 ha -- most of the latter was paid by K6nitra
Commune, 1,404 ha of cork oak forest were pruned and cleared of dead and dying
trees and the associated two year study completed. The training, forest economy
and production and marketing studies were also executed, the forest inventory
study was begun and the rationalization study was funded from other sources.
Two fellowships (a ten-month bursary at Idaho University re eucalypt yield tables
and a three-week study tour of Portugal re. cork production) were funded in the
initial years (1982-84).
17.       The project has met the first of the two stated objectives (para. 7)
of increasing roundwood production (industrial timber and fuelwood), but has
only partially met the second objective of introducing better planning and
management techniques in forestry. The details are as follows.
(a) The project has planted most of the 18,374 ha of new eucalypt
plantations with the Lac Albacutya provenance of Eucalyptus
camaldulensis. Subsequent studies have shown that the provenance
should not be planted in deep sandy soils (a sand depth of 1.5 m
or less is best), with the result that there has been a reduction
in the quantities of the Lac Albacutya variety planted. A student
thesis W on the growth of this provenance in the project area
distinguishes five site (fertility) classes, based, besides tree
growth, on distance from the sea (20-70 km) and sand depth (0.5-
3.0 m).  The first three fertility classes (the latter two are
ignored - fast-growing plantations should not be established on
deep sand) when planted with E. camaldulensis prov. Lac Albacutya
produce Mean Annual Increments (MAI) of 11.03 m3, 7.95 m3 and 5.32
m3/ha/year. As explained in the last paragraph of page 73 of the
thesis, however, these are volumes for pulpwood taken to only 6
cm. top diameter, if fuelwood is included too, then the best
Quality Class produced a MAI of 12.81 m3 - the other two classes
produce slightly lower growth rates.
The office block at Tiflet was finally constructed at the Governor's
budget expense.
V     Achaq, Abdenbi (1990): Etude de la Croissance et de la Production des
Peuplements d'Eucalyptus camaldulensis provenance Lake Albacutya dans le
Secteur Gharb/Mamora. mimeo. 78 pp. 4 annexes. Use of this thesis thus
avoided reference to the Research Division's sample plots that have
shown mean annual increments (MAIs) of up to 27 m3/ha/year but are
fenced against grazing and are usually more carefully maintained than
ordinary plantations.



-8-
(b) Dr. Tijani Mandouri, the former sylviculturist at the Forest
Research Station, has shown that with two doses of mineral
fertilizer (instructions to increase applications from one dose
at establishment, to two, at establishment and five years old,
were issued early in 1990) yields of average plantations i.e.
Quality Class II, will be close to those indicated in the SAR
(i.e. a MAI of around 12 m3/ha/year).   A  comparison of these
yields with those indicated in the recent Gharb/Mamora eunalypt
plantation inventory (para. 18-b) suggest that they will be at
least twice that of existing plantations. The genetic improvement
program presently in place at Sidi Amira (approximately 1,250 ha
planted by mid-1990) will probably produce yields of three or four
times that of existing plantations (para. 18-b). In addition to
this increase, primarily in industrial wood, there has been a
substantial increase in fuelwood produced by the stumping of old
plantations and used now throughout Morocco. An average of 50 tons
(67 m3) of fuelwood/ha is produced, which is valued at
approximately DH 5,000/ha and pays for most of the stumping,
levelling and piling the stumps in rows prior to reforestation.
(c) The project has partially "introduced better planning and
management techniques for the forestry sub-sector" (para. 7). It
has established the PMU to monitor and evaluate the project but
needs to await implementation of Forestry II to ensure a properly
equipped PMU, concerned with Moroccan forestry on a national scale,
supported by the results of the national forest inventory and
guided by the content of a National Reforestation Plan (para. 18-
d).
18.       There were, in addition, four unstated objectives or aspects that the
project  has  either  met  or  developed  very  substantially.         They  are:
(a) establishment of a stumping system for the existing plantations that is
applied by local contractors; (b) initiation of a genetic improvement program;
(c) reorganization of the Research Division of DEFCS; and (d) provision of the
basis for the Forestry II project. Details are as follows:
(a) the project was solely responsible for the introduction and
refinement of a method of stumping, levelling and wind-rowing of
stumps (land preparation for reforestation) in the Gharb/Mam.ira
area by local entrepreneurs.   Although information existed on
mechanized land clearance within the Mediterranean Region, there
were special problems concerning the uprooting and removal of
stumps and their sale from the Gharb/Mamora sandy soils that were
not properly resolved until mid-1984;
(b) reference has been made to the pulp mill's increasing demands on
the Gharb/Mamora eucalypt plantations (para. 3). The loss of some
60,000 m3of eucalypt to Phoracantha insect attack, the series of
droughts in 1981-84, low growth rates of many plantations
(confirmed by inventories in the Gharb/Mamora region in 1989) were
exacerbated by the Forest Services' system of felling increasingly
younger stands (8-9 years instead of 12 years) from a wider and
wider area to make good immediate shortfalls. Wood supplies were



9
thus substantially reduced and, since late 1986, the mill has been
importing large quantities of wood (approximately 60 percent in
1988/89) to cover local shortages. The project SAR had discussed
a genetic improvement plan to raise tree plantation production and
the Bank again raised the subject with the Minister in early 1986.
Following the wood shortages of 1986, a cooperative program between
AFOCEL, DEFCS and, more recently, a French bilateral aid scheme
has been launched at Sidi Amira to provide for the genetic
improvement of eucalypts and their propagation (para. 17-a);
(c) the project supported a substantial forest research program both
by consultants and the DEFCS Research Division (para. 8); the
latter covered sylviculture, genetic improvement, wood technology
and  forest  protection.    Throughout  the  1980s  there  were
difficulties with the Research Division, its organization and
reporting systems in regard to both this and other Bank projects.
In 1988, a new Chief of the Research Division was appointed. He
has created six services in place of the original two in
sylviculture and soil science, genetic improvement, forest
technology, pathology, fauna and flora and a regional research
center at Marrakech, and prepared written details of their
organization and programs (December 1989). Disinterested or
unqualified researchers have been replaced, equipment and vehicles
have been purchased for research staff and protocols for
cooperative research have been signed with other institutions;
(d) an important aspect of the Forestry I project (which undoubtedly
became more important as action resulting from studies, for
example, was delayed) was to prepare the basis for Forestry II
(para. 25-a), which effectively started in January 1990 and was
declared effective in September 1990.   In brief, Forestry II
proposes to promote forestry planning (completion of the forest
inventory, forest boundary demarcation, simple management plan
preparation and reformulation of a National Reforestation Plan),
forestry operations (regeneration of natural forest, plantation
establishment, watershed management, range development and
construction of forest roads) and support activities (nature
conservation,  research  and  the  fuelwood  study,  training,
institutional development, housing and equipment). Virtually all
Gharb/Mamora studies have contributed to Forestry II: the forest
mapping and inventory is a direct continuation of the Forestry I
initiative, even the rationalization study, which was not executed
under the project, contributed eucalypt inventories and cork oak
forest regeneration techniques.
19.       She indications are that all interventions proposed under Forestry I
were well within the capabilities of DEFCS and, in the absence of the financial
problems of the 1980s (para. 6) they could have been completed or exceeded within
the project period allotted.   Possibly the greatest failure was the range
management component. Although the sylvopastoralist consultant provided numerous



. 10 -
estimates of the financial return from these interventions, 1 it was not
possible to calculate rates of return from this method because the yield data
were collected but were inadvertently destroyed. The sylvopastoral component
improved a larger area than targeted, in spite of the fact that the target was
intended to compensate for 10,000 ha of new plantations in the Mamora forest
whereas only less than half that number were established.   Nevertheless, it
failed to establish Grazing Associations in the project area, impose realistic
grazing fees or undertake an adequate census of livestock that were grazing in
the forest V or to meet the consultant's plan for a system whereby stock grazing
and permanent employment would be provided for 2,000 laborers. The root cause
of this problem is the incredibly high human/livestock pressure within the
Gharb/Mamora area -- it would have been better to have initiated this scheme in
an easier area.
20.       Some 80 percent of tree planting under the project comprised eucalypt
planting on stumped areas and as the rotation is very short (only 10 years), the
PCR concentrates on the results from this species. In part III of this report
Tables 9-A and B are composed of models for costs and revenues of one hectare
of eucalypts, cleared manually or mechanically with one fertilization and Tables
10-A and B are exactly the same but with two fertilizations. Financial rates
of return at appraisal were only 8.5 percent (mechanical stumping) and 14.5
percent (manual stumping), but were much higher at the end of the project i.e.
19.9 percent and 22.9 percent for mechanical stumping (depending on one or two
fertilizations) and 33.9 percent and 36.5 percent for manual stumping (one or
two fertilizations). The difference is due partly to the fact that the present
calculation does not include indirect costs such as fire protection, roads, etc.,
as opposed to the appraisal calculation, but more particularly, to the
substantial increases in the prices of the output, especially the stumps sold
at the beginning of the plantation (DH 5,000/ha in 1988/89 compared to DH 600/ha
at appraisal). The degree to which world prices of wood have affected the rates
of return is shown by the Economic rate of return, which was 25 percent at
appraisal but 35 percent and over 40 percent for mechanized stumping, depending
on the number of fertilizations. Fertilization a second time is very important
if fast growth is required;  fortunately,  more than half of the eucalypt
plantations were five years old or less in early 1990, when the directive on the
second fertilization (para. 17-b) was issued.
21.       From these results it is clear that:   (a) manual stumping is less
costly per stump than mechanized stumping (in reality, as it requires
400 man/days to stump a hectare, it would require 2,000,000 man/days to clear
5,000 ha/year, or in 5-7 months, and there is insufficient forest labor to stump
the vast ar.vas involved). In any case, the two are difficult to compare because
mechanized stumping results in much deeper and more thorough soil cultivation
than manual clearing; and (b) the second fertilization (para. 17-a) should
1/    e.g. Montoya, J.M. (1986):  Rapport final sur la Mission d'Am6lioration
sylvopastorale effectuee entre le 10/1/84 et le 10/1/86. mimeo. 24pp.
V     No further thorough livestock inventories were attempted after that in
the Commune de Bouknadel (on the coast between Kenitra and Rabat) in
1985, but there will be another attempt in 1991, on a national scale
(see the footnote to the appropriate section of Table 7 in Part III).



- 11 -
definitely be adopted since the additional costs are more than offset by the
additional growth.
22.       It is difficult to assess the impa-t o:. Forestry I on Moroccan forestry
in its broadest sense as it cannot be dissoiclat;ed from Forestry II in that the
latter has proved to be a continuation and expeasion of the proposals enumerated
under the original forestry project and its implementation has only just begun.
A forest policy and strategy for forestry development were compiled in 1986 by
a Moroccan committee under Forestry I as part of the preparation of Forestry II.
It should be noted, however, that in spite of the forestry conditionality
attached to two Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans, the two greatest threats
to Moroccan forestry -- wood theft for fuel and overgrazing   -- have not been
solved.
Project Sustainabilitv
23.       Sustainability and potential benefits of project activities arise from
two sources:
(a) inauguration and establishment of initiatives under the Forestry
I project gr se e.g. (i) mechanized stumping of old plantations
prior to reforestation; and (ii) use of the Planning Unit; and
(b) inauguration  under  the  Gharb/Mamora  project,   but  actual
establishment of the system under Forestry II, including proposals
for refinement of the Planning Unit's operations, use of new
equipment (e.g., personal computers), results of the forest
inventory and preparation of the National Reforestation Plan,
various actions arising from the training study, natural forest
regeneration, forest range development and, particularly, genetic
improvement of eucalypts (para. 18-d). All of these operations
are sustainable; it would be the intention to increase and improve
their benefits under Forestry II.
24.       Actual benefits of the project are restricted to the faster growing
Lac Albacutya provenance of EucalyRtus camaldulensis. This benefit is certainly
sustainable and involves a considerable increase in existing growth rates.
(para. 17-a).
BaRk Performance
25.       There are three periods during the project, when sharper focus or
greater consistency of the Bank than was shown could have improved project
performance.
(a) The first was during formulation of project objectives. In view
of the number of studies concerned with future organization of
fQrest nanagement, it is surprising that preparation for c.
subsequern- forestry project with emphasis   on regular ireL
inventory, range management, management planning, training, sn!4f
financing, etc., was not specifically listed as a project
component.   If nothing else,  it would have focussed greater
attention on the studies and actions arising from them.



- 12 -
(b) A mid-term review of the project was undertaken in February 1986
and comprised a proposed loan cancellation, following a review of
project costs compared with appraisal estimates. Whilst the end-
product is not in dispute, it would probably have been preferable
to have revised the project, clearly excluded all proposals that
were not going to be attempted because of Government budget
reductions, and reduced the project scope and loan amount
accordingly.
(c) Finally, although close contact was maintained during the early
half of the project with the MOF, supervision of the project during
the final years was restricted to meetings with the executive
directorate r'sponsible for project implementation (DEFCS) and made
no contact with the MOF staff to acquaint them w' i project
achievements or to try to obtain additional funds ror project
initiatives.
Borrower Performance
26.       Equally, there were three subjects on which more precise action by
the Borrower would have been to the project's advantage.
(a) First, if DEFCS information on the poor growth rate of eucalypt
plantations in the Gharb/Mamora area had been known with greater
precision early in the project period, then many of the problems
associated with wood supplies to the mill and availability of
planting land under Forestry II, for example, could have been
avoided and there would have been greater incentive for an earlier
start to the genetic improvement program (pRra. 18-b).
(b) Secondly, there was considerable procrastination over action on
project study proposals (range management, training, forest
economy). Indeed, in range management, action was begun and then
stopped because of implementation difficulties. The forest mapping
and inventory by aerial photography and remote sensing was,
probably, the worst. Although DEFCS was committed to the idea,
they studied and tested various options, in the hope of finding
a more economic method; they finally accepted the inventory by
aerial photography, but it took the whole project period including
the two years extension to even begin.
(c) Finally, although DEFCS undertook, in December 1987, to meet or
exceed project targets on stumping, roads, vehicles and studies,
as a condition of loan extension, no additional effort was made,
in fact, and no complete explanation of the situation provided.
Proiect Relationship
27.       On a more positive note, the relationship between the Ministry, DEFCS,
Project Management and Bank staff was excellent.   The consistency of staff
representation of both the Borrower (the Project Manager was the same throughout
the project period) and the Bank (one member of staff has been consistently
associated with the project, although not, regrettably, with the appraisal)



-  13  -
proved to be especially useful - in preparing tha PCR, for example. The obvious
lesson from this is that continuity of staff on both sides is a great asset to
project effectiveness.
Consulting Services
28.       Although it had been hoped to employ all major consultants by January
1984, in fact, consultant terms of reference were not approved until early 1983,
the first consultant (range management) was only employed in January 1984 and
the shortage of complementary budget funds ensured that all remaining consultants
were long delayed.
29.       The standard of consulting services supplied under the project was
generally satisfactory. The final report on the production and marketing of wood
study was later than expected and some of the proposals of consultants did not
sufficiently take into account Moroccan experience. For example, the proposal
that much of the manual forestry work should be undertaken by cooperatives may
have been technically correct but did not take into account the less-than-
successful experience in   is field in Moroccan forestry.  Although the range
management study proposal   ere not complete (for example, they did not include
an adequate livestock cer._as (para. 19), the consultant was interested in a
variety of subjects, including the regeneration and utilization of the cork oak
forest, 1J and contributed to the highly successful training of Moroccan cork
strippers, in early 1988, by the Portuguese and largely financed by the Moroccan
cork industry.
Project Documentation and Data
30.       Preparation and standards of project documentation were generally good
(i.e. the six monthly progress reports, project research programs, terms of
reference for consultants, etc.).   Perhaps inevitably, budgetary constraints
prompted administrative rather than technical supervision and, as time went by,
progress report emphasized monitoring rather than evaluation, but these reports
were, in fact, described as the best progress reports of any forestry project
in the EMENA region. Annual audit reports were received, although with a four
to six month delay beyond the due date.
1/    Most of the FAO/UNDP project proposals presently being implemented in
the 60,000 ha Mamora cork oak forest are, in fact, based on the Range
Management consultant's work, as is the successful regeneration of cork
oak at Khemisset (200 ha) that was established under the Gharb/Mamora
project in 1986/87.



- 15 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Kingdom of Morocco
Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la
R6forme Agraire (MARA)
Direction des Eaux et For6ts et de la
Conservation des Sols (DEFCS)
From:
The Director, DEFCS
To:
Chief, Agriculture Operations Division
Rabat, May 22, 1991
EMENA
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Re:
Loan 2110-MOR, Project Completion Report (Part II)
In response to your fax of April 30, 1991 and following the telephone
converset-ion between Mr. Holloway and Mr. Hammoudi on May 9, 1991, I enclose Part
II of the Project Completion Report on the Gharb/Mamora Project (Loan 2110-
MOR), set out in conformity with the Bank's outline.
A -   Comments on Part III of the Report
This part, prepared by the Bank on the basis of data supplied by the
DEFCS, contains statistical information on projected and actual results. The
DEFCS has no comments concerning Tables 1-8.   Tables 9A, 9B, lOA and lOB
contained some incorrect information, which was checked and corrected at the time
of Mr. Holloway's mission from March 12 to 18, 1991.
B -   Comments on Part I of the Report
Part I of the Bank's PCR covers the project's direct and indirect
objectives and notes the results obtained and the problems encountered during
implementation.



- 16 -
The rangeland component [composante pastorale] of the project did
encounter certain difficulties in that the operations covered by this component
were deemed incompatible with the soils and socioeconomic climate of the area.
A detailed report on this issue was prepared by the expert responsible for
supervision of this component and submitted to the Bank. It included a proposal
for new techniques to be introduced to replace those originally planned (pruning
of cork oaks, cutting of undergrowth). This proposal was accepted by the Bank
and put into effect under the project. The cork oak pruning, which covered over
1,400 ha, was appreciated by the rural communes in the area, which accepted the
principle of financing the operation following project completion.
With respect to the low rates of loan disbursement, this was due
basically to the rise in the value of the US dollar against the dirham (from US$1
- DH 5.30 at the time of project appraisal to US$1 - DH 9 toward the end of the
project). To remedy the situation, the Bank twice stepped up the disbursement
rate for "stumping" from 60% to 90% under special action programs (PAS I and PAS
II). The proposal of the DEFCS to include reforestation in costs reimbursable
out of the loan was not accepted by the Bank.
C -   Overview of Bank actions
During project execution, the Bank carried out 14 supervision missions
[missions de concertation], enabling it to follow the progress of the project
activities and to be kept abreast of the problems encountered. The Bank spared
no effect to ensure that those problems did not hinder the satisfactory progress
of the project and the achievement of its objectives. However, the major problem
throughout project implementation was the inadequacy of the annual budgetary
allocations.   This hindered the smooth progress of the project,  and the
completion date had to be extended by two years.
With respect to the "consultancy" component, despite assistance from
the Bank in the selection and choice of the experts, the studies carried out (see
Table 8) did not yield the expected results and also ran into difficulties.
By way of example, the study on wood marketing has still not been completed by
ORT, and its usefulness is now in doubt since the information it contains is now
two years out of date ? [sense inferred from practically illegible text -
Translator].
D -   Overview of MARA (DEFCS) actions
At the end of the project's first year (Year 0), the DEFCS set up a
special unit to manage, coordinate and monitor project activities, in compliance
with the loan agreement. This unit was responsible for ensuring that the loan
covenants were observed throughout the project. It served as the Bank's direct
contact for passing on information from and to each of the parties.
Execution and supervision of the field activities were entrusted to
the Kenitra and Khemisset Forest Services located in the project area. These
two services handled preparation of the invitations to tender issued to local
contractors, supervision of plantation establishment, construction of roads and
forest dwellings, and supervision and monitoring of stumping. They submitted
periodic reports on the progress of the project activities.



- 17 -
The most important action taken by MARA was to keep the project within
its budget by prioritizing its components, limiting these to stumping and
planting and studies. The program for the other components, such as roads and
forest dwellings, was canceled for lack of sufficient budget funds.
The project's impact on development can be measured by the volume of
reforestation work (21,240 ha, of which 19,000 ha consisted of the replanting
of stumped plantations and 1,448 ha took the form of new plantings).   These
plantings, mostly consisting of Eucalyptus camaldulensis of the Lac Albacutia
variety, will help provide the raw material for the Sidi Yahya pulp mill.
Aniother impact of the project is evident in the introduction of a new
mechanized stumping technique for the old eucalyptus plantations. Although this
technique was mentioned in the PNR, it had never been adopted on a large scale.
The project made it possible to identify civil engineering enterprises possessing
sufficient technology to handle this activity.
In addition, several studies ? [.... words illegible - Translator] were
carried out under the project with the aim of helping the DEFCS to better plan
and manage the country's forest resources.
The Gharb/Mamora project served as a basis for identification and
preparation of two forestry projects suitable for external financing. "Forestry
Project Phass II" represents a logical follow-up to the Gharb/Mamora project and
is financed by a World Bank loan. The "Natural Resources Conservation Project"
has received a loan from the ADB group (ADB/ADF).
E -   Bank-DEFCS relations
Throughout project implementation, relations between the Bank experts
responsible for appraisal, monitoring a.id ex-post evaluation [?and DEFCS staff]
were marked by exemplary understanding and mutual collaboration. They were able
to contact each other easily, a fact that enabled the Moroccan side to experience
the methodological approach and the benefits of teamwork.   The supervision
missions were frequent and fruitful, and in most cases their results were
reported in aides-memoire covering all the points discussed and offering the
Bank's recommendations.
/s/ L. Hissem



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: IBRD Loans Retevant to the Project
Loan Number/                            Year
Project Title                   Approved               Purpose of Project                        Status                                Comments
1. wasteland Enviromnent Coapenent                Coaponent comprised 8,000 ha fruit tree    Project completed in         Financiat difficutties. Lack of Governaent
Ln. 1602-NOR                         1978      planting and 5,000 ha forestry tree          June 1990.                 buJget, delays in payments and differential
Fes-Karia-lissa                                planting,                                                               of dirhas/doDlar exchange.
Agricutture Project
2. Forestry and soil conservation                 Coqponents coaprised 3,500 ha of pine         Project conpleted in      Financial difficulties as above. Reforestation
components                                     ptanting and forest management In Iserene   December 1988.              target actuatly exceeded (4,420 ha).
Loan 1848-NOR                         1980     Forest and 800 ha of forage shrubs and
Loukkos Rural Development                      2,000 ha of Acacia planting in Upper
Project                                        Loukkos.                                                                                                                     l
3. Several forestry and range                     Components included 36,275 ha of forest       Project completed         Serious financial difficulties as above (bud-
0mnagement components                          management plan preparation; 3,200 ha         in December 1990.         getary resources only 22X of SAR estimates in
Ln. 2082-NOR                         1982      assisted cedar regeneration; 2,500 ha                                   1984). Several proposats reduced or cancetled
Middle   las Agricultural                      cedar and 15,324 he holm oak coppice                                    (e.g. exploitation) or financed by other
Development Project                            thinning; equipment and training two fo-                                source (e.g. insect studies by DPV). Socio-
rest exploitation teams; spraying 23,000                               political problems over langeland component.
ha of cedar and studies against pro-
cessionary caterpillar, etc., etc.
Planting of forage shrubs at Souhsoussen
(2,000 ha) and Ain Leuh (1,000 ha).
4. Forestry, sol conservation and                 Coqponents comprised 8,000 ha of             Project to be completed   Financial difficulties as above; inproverma.t
range improvement components                   productive and 4,000 ha of protective        in June 1991.              apparent late 1989.
Ln. 2217-NOR                         1983      plantat;ons (pine and eucalypts); soil
Oulmes-Roamani Agricultural                    conservation (fruit tree planting and
Development Project                            engineering) on 4,000 ha; and 12,000 ha
of range iaprovement, i.e. thimning and
pruning in oak areas.



- 2'' -
MOROCCO
GHARB/NAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2:   Planned. Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
PLanned                   Revised                       Actual
item              Date                       Date                          Date
Identification  S                                                               Sept. 24-Oct. 07, 1979
Preparation  (1)                                                                May   22-Jun. 05, 1980
Preparation  (2)  i'                                                            Sept. 22-Oct. 16, 1980
Preparation                                                                     Feb.  05-Feb. 14, 1981
Preparation                                                                     Mar.  09-Mar. 14, 1981
Appraisal                                                                       Jun.  02-Jun. 30, 1981
AppraisaL                                                                       Oct.  01- Oct.05, 1981
Loan negotiation          Jan. 18-Feb. 05, 1982                                 February 05, 1982
Board approval            March 16, 1982                                        March 23, 1982
Loan signature            Aprit 15, 1982                                        ApriL 15, 1982
Loan effectiveness        JuLy 14, 1982              October 29, 1982           October 28, 1982
Loan cLosing              June 30, 1988              June 30, 1989              June 30, 1990
S Principal missions leading to reports.



- 21 -
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3:   Mission data by Stases of the Pro ect
S U P E R V I S I O N
No. of Persons
Mission         Month/Year    and Speciali-    Staff Weeks   Project   Types of Major
zation     1/      in  field    Status         ProbLems
IDENTIFICATION       04-05/79
09-10/79       2 (Ec/P & P)         4.0
PREPARATION          05-06/80       5 (Ec/Ag/For/        5.0
Inf/Liv)
09-10/80       3 (Ec/For/           6.0
For Ex)
02/81       1 (Ec)               1.0
03/81       1 (Ec)               1.0
APPRAISAL               06/81      5 (Ag/Ec/P & P/
For/For Ex)       15.0
10/81     1 (Ec)                 1.0
SUPERVISION   1         06/82      2 (Ag/For)            2.0            1      Management
Technical
It        12/82      1 (Ec)                0.5           1       Management
Technical
III        01/83      1 (Ag)                0.2           -
IV     11-12/83      2 (Ag/For)            2.0           2       Financial
Technical
V        07/84      2 (Ag/For)            2.0           2       FinanciaL
VI        12/84      1 (For)                0.5
VIl         10/85     2 (Ag/For)             2.0           2      Financial
Vill        02/86  /  1 (Ag)                  0.5
IX        07/86      1 (Ag)                0.2
X        04/87      1 (For)               0.5           2       Financial
Xi        12/87      2 (For/Ec)             2.0           2      Financial
XII         10/88     1 (For)                0.1           2      Financial
XiII         02/89     1 (For)                0.2           2      Financial
XIV        02/90      1 (For)                1.0           2      Financiat
, Ec: economist; Ag: agriculturist; For: forester; Liv: livestock;
P & P: pulp and paper; Inf.: Infrastructure; For.Ex.: forest exploitation.
V Mid-term Review



- 22 -
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements and Canceltations
Disbursements    (USS MilLions)
IBRD Fiscal
Year                                         Actual % of            Cancellations
Estimated        Actual       Original Loan (a)
Semester endina    CumuLative     Cumulative      FinaL Loan    (b)       (US$ Millions)
(a)         (b)
FY 83
Dec. 31, 1982         1.3             0.41         2           4
Jure 30  1983         3.5             1.18         4          11
FY 84
Dec. 31, 1983         4.1             1.68         6          16
June 30, 1984         7.8             1.85         7          18
FY 85
Dec. 31. 1984         9.4             2.30         8          22      USS 7.0 mil. (11/84)
June 30. 1985        13.0            3.11         12          30
Dec. 31, 1985        14.6             3.66        13          35
June 30, 1986        18.5            4.23         15          40
FY87
Dec. 31, 1986        21.7             4.31        16          42      USS 5.0 mil. (08/86)
June 30, 1987        25.5            5.00         20          49
FY 88
Dec. 31, 1987        27.0             7.95        29          77
June 30, 1988        27.5             7.98        29          77
Dec. 31, 1988                         7.98        29          77
June 30, 1989          .              7.98        29          77      USS 3.0 mil. (06/89)
FY 90
Dec. 31, 1989          .              8.58        31          85
June 30, 1990          .             9.78         37         100      USS 2.4 mil. (06/90)
(Oct. 31, 1990)



- 23 -
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5:   Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
(US Dollars eguivalent)
Original Loan:   US$27,500,000
Cancellations:   US$7.0 million (11/84); USS5.0 miltion (08/86)       ) Total:
US$3.0 million (06/89); US$2.4 million (06/90)
US$275,543.21  (11/90);            ) US$ 17,675,543.21  S
Percentage of Expenditure
OriginaL  Loan   To be Financed
Category            ALlocation                                       Final Amount Disbursed
Loan           S.A.P.
1. Mechnical Stuffping    19,500,000.00        60%             90%                8,620,745.03
2. Civil Works Roads       2,500,000.00         50%            50%                  195,783.55
3. CiviL Works Bldgs.        400,000.00         35%            35%                   99,101.26
4. VehicLes and                             100% Foreign   100% Foreign
Equipment             1,100,000.00     65% Local       65% Local               136,476.62
5. Studies and                             100X Foreign   100% Foreign
Training              800,000.00      75% local       75% local               44,117.13
6. Fee                       406,404.00         --..                                406,404.00
7. Unallocated             2,793,596.00         .               .
TOTALS:           27,500,000.00                                            9,902,627.59   I/
j/      Has a difference of USS 78,171.20 because of exchange fluctuations
in amount in Special Account.



Page 1 of 2
GHARS/AMAORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAU 2110-MOR)
PROJECT CCMPLETION REPORT
Tabte 6:    Physical Taraets and Achievements 1982-1990
1981-1982      1982-1983      1983-1984      1984-1985      1985-1986     1986-1987      1987-1988      1988-1989      1989-1990        Totat
Achie-         Achie-         Achie-         Achie-        Achie-         Achie-         Achie-         Achie-        lAchie-         Achie-
SUBJECT         Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Targetget    ved Target          v
1,600  3,400 212.5
REFORESTATION                                                                                                                                             (man)
Stumping  (ha)    800  1,935  1,800  1,960  3,200  2,084  3,700  1,957  4,200  1,616  4,700  2,457                2,076          2,323            570 18,400 16,408  89.1
_  _                                                                _  .                  _ 1                                 1 (mech)
Planting         1,000  2,128  3,000  2,431  5,000  2,578  6,500  3,130  7,000  4,648  6,883  2,461               2,409          1,093            370 29,383 21,248  72.3
ROADS (kn)
Construction                       10      2      10      8      10       -     10       -                                                                40      10  25.0
Rehabititation                     40      10     50     34      50              -                                                                        140     44  31.4
Maintenance                         - _           50   -        110     42    170                                                                           o 500  42   8.4
BUILDINGS (unit)                      I _                                                                                                                     I _  B
off ices                                                                                                                                               Stock
Houses                             12      4              3                                                                                               12       7  53.8
VEHICLES (niIt)
4-wheet vehicle                      23      20                                                                                                              23     20  87.0
Trucks                              7      7                                                                                                               7       7100.0
RANGE MANAGEMENT
(ha)
Cutting under-                                              135         1,651            886            300                                                2,600  2,972 1143
growth



Page 2 of 2
MOROCC0
GHARB/1ANORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tabte 6: Physical Targets and Achievements 1982-1990
1981-1982     1982-1983      1983-1984     1984-1985      19F5-1986     1986-1987     1987-1988      1988-1989     1989-1990        Total
Achie-        Achie-         Achie-        Achie-         Achie-        Achie-        Achie-         Achie-        Achi           Achie-    X
SUBJECT        Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved Target    ved
Prunming/Sanitary                                          24           653            380           347           _                                         1,404
Cutting
FELLOWSHIPS                                10              1                                                                4                                  11
COISULTANCIES
Iv.                                     6      6      12     12      6      6                                                               24     24 100.0
SiL vopestoral
Training                            6             4       6      1      4                            1                                                 11    11 100.0
Forest Economy                      31            3              _ -    2             2              2                                                 6      6 100.0
Inventory                           6      -      2                                                                                                    8      -
Rationatization                     8                                                                                                                  8
Prod.action/
Marketing                                                                                                                              6      6      6      6 100.0



Page 1 of 2
GHARBIMVIORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT CEPLET ION REPORT
Table 7:  Status of Covenants
Section
Brief Description of Covenants                  aolticable        Compliance                                      Remarks
LA 1/ 3.01       For the most part  Funds not provided "pronptly as needed".
Due diligence clause                                   LA   4.02
Establishment of Project Mnitoring Unit and            LA    3.02              Yes          PMJ staff in operation since 04/82; TCC (mainly Director and Division
Technical Coordinating Coemittee                                                            Chiefs of DEFCS) meeting as required.
Employ Range Management Specialist                     LA    3.03(a)   Yes. Started 01/84
Emrployment of consultants satisfactory to Bank        LA   3.03(b)   Yes. Began 01/84    One consultant study executed by other means.
Establish forest management plan for project area to  LA    3.04        No. Not under       Eucalypt plantation inventory in Gharb/Namora undertaken by Neknes         N
rationalize production and effect, taking Bank's                        project             CRIA and irncluded in management plan by 12/89. Two year FAO/UNDP pro-    a
caments Into account                                                                       ject (coaienced 09/89) to revise Gharb/Mamora management plan in
respect of cork oak.
Undertake a study on technical manpower and training   LA     3.05      For the most part  Study undertaken but in-service training program for staff (and thus,
requirements for DEFCS staff and workers for                                                indirectly, for workers) under present project ard Forestry II.
forestry/wood processing and set up an in-service
training program
Study charcoal making and establishment of             LA     3.06             Yes          Studies by consultant and by Forest Research Division. Demonstrated
cooperatives                                                                                to charcoal makers but methods and cooperatives unacceptabLe to them.
Witt be contirued under Forestry 11, with greater accent on education
and pubticity.
Submit semi-anmual progress reports profptty to Bank   LA    3.06(a)           Yes
Submit completion report to Bank by 12/90              LA    3.08(a)    Completed 5/91



Paoe 2 of 2
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7:   Status of Covenants
Section
Brief Description of Covenants                     aDd icable         Coartiance                                          Remarks
Maintain separate accounts and submit audit reports    LA    4.03                   Yes
within 6 months of each calendar year
Study financiat aspects (including stumpage rates)         LA    4.04               Yes           Study submitted 05/87: has provided basis for various proposats prima-
of forestry sub-sector. Take action on proposats                                                  rily under Forestry II, but no forest exploitation component. Stupage
rates will be studied by economist under Forestry II.
This study should also analyze financing aspects of    LA    4.05(a)                Yes           Various proposals made and followed up by DEFCS but since 06/86 (when    $;
forestry sub-sector to propose revenues for FNF                                                   6X tax on imports imposed to replenish FNF) unsuccessful. Initiatives
on autofinancing for DEFCS are contiruing.
Establish grazier associations, grazing rates and          LA    4.06(a)            No            In spite of mAch discussion and nunerous initiatives under the laws of
satisfactory cost recovery                                                                        forestry and on rainfed agriculture, no action has been taken on this
important subject.   V/
Pasture improvement under project to be undertaken         LA    4.06(b)            Yes           Area improved but no additional action taken or provision made for
according to mutually agreed time scheduled                                                       future maintenance or improvement.
Foltow procurement procedures according to                LA    Sch. 4              Yes
Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement
I/   Loan Agreement
If Learning that only 13X or 8.0 million cattle, sheep and goats believed to graze in the forest were registered, the National Forest Councit (by letter of
January 21, 1991) has requested all Directorates of Agriculture to organize a census of animals grazing in the forest; the aim is to distinguishing numbers
of animals of right holders from those of others and to charge each legtimate grazier a fee that will go towards improvement of forest pastures.
(Noted in Supervision Report of Morocco Forestry 11 of March 1991).



Pame I of 3
MOROCCO
GHARB/NAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-NOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8: Prolect Studies
Name of Study             Purpose defined at Appraisal      I                 Status                                      lmpact of Study
A. CONSUItTANT STLOIES
1. RANGE MANAGEMENT      Advise local team on establishment       Range Officers appointed early 198. at  2,972 ha improved by cutting undergrowth inctuding
Grazing Associations and improvement    Kenitra and Khdmisset. Study unider-      additionat 1,404 ha improved by tree pruning and sani-
2,600 ha of Mamora Forest by seeding,   taken 1/84-1/86. ConsuLtant (Montoya)   tary cutting under project. Reveniue from cork cot-
fertilization, ptanting forage shrubs    proposed improving range without fen-    tection improved. ComLwes refused to form Grazier
and rotational grazing.                  cing by managing cork oak forest as      Associations. Range offices continued and approxima-
more economic in dry sandy areas such    tely 1,000 ha of urdergrowth cleared at Counes'
as Mamora and as proposed by the FAO/   expense in 1989.
UNDP project in 1973
2. FOREST RESOURCE       National forest resources to be mapped   Fottowing two faited attempts (12/83     Consuttancy firm (Lavatin) expected to start 6/90 and
SURVEY                at 1:200,000 scale from sateltite ima-  and 07/85) because of financiaL pro-      continue for 4 years (Forestry I project: 0.5 years;
gery with training for DEFCS staff as   btems to emptoy consuLtants, agreed to   Forestry 11 project: 3.5 years).
contribution to National Forest Inven-  undertake by existing 1988 aerial                                                                   ao
tory.                                    photography with training in interpre-
tation of satetlite imagery.
3. RATIONALIZATION       Review of Gharb/lmamora to identify      Fottowing two failed attempts (06/83     Eucalypt plantation inventory undertaken by DEFCS
GHARB/MORA            areas and include proposals in forest   and 11/85) for financial reasons to       Centre for Inventory and Management (CRIA), Meknes.
FOREST MANAGEMENT     management plan for pulp or cork pro-   eaploy consultants, idea abandoned and   and proposals included in forest management plan by
duction, stock grazing, hunting,         pursued by other means.                  12/89. Two-year FAO/DANIOA project began 9/89 to make
tourism, etc., etc.                                                               plan proposats for management, inctuding regeneration,
of cork oak.
4. FOREST MANPOWER       Assess national, technical marpower      Study undertaken during 4/84-3/87;       After much cogitation over consult_nt's proposals
AND TRAINING          requirement and propose training for     final report submitted by consultant     (itinerant training teams), DEFCS proposed in-service
DEFCS In all forms of forestry inc-      (Huygen), 6/87.                          training courses for technical staff only, which com-
luding forest utilization.                                                        menced 6/89 and uill continue in expanded form under
norestry 11.
5. FOREST ECONOMY        Propose means of forestry self-finan-    Study undertaken during 2/85-4/87;       Many proposals included in Forestry 1I. Insufficient
cing; review stuspage rates, planta-     finat report submitted by consultant    data available for detailed examination of stumpage
tion establishment, commune partici-    (Lawrie) 4/87                             rates, but need to increase growth rates of plantations
pation. forest exploitation, analyze                                              and existing arrangement for putp mill subsidized wood
constraints and make recommendations.                                             prices confirmed uneconomic.



Pase 2 of 3
WOROCCO
GHAR',IMAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-NOR)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Table 8:   Project Studies
Name of Study             Purpose defined at Appraisal                        Status                                      lipact of Study
A. CONSULTANT STUDIES
6. PRODUCTION AND        As stated; to exclude pulpwood, and      Study undertaken (Huygen and Abet,       Consulting firm (ORT) accepted responsibility for
MARKETING WOOD        fuetwood. Additional to Appraisat        2 x 3 months) 3/4-7/89 after appraisal  delay; is row tooking for suitable consultant to
AND WOOD PRODUCTS    proposals, included primarily in the      Forestry 11 (2/89). Reports submitted    prepare final report; expect to have completed
hope of covering uwder Forestry II.      6/90 and 11/90 but rejected by OEFCS    by 6/91.
as inadequate.
S. DEFCS STUDIES
(DEFCS, primarily the Research and Economy Divisions and the Project Management Unit, were to investigate anrual increases of wood volume of tree plantations
through genetic improvement, vegetative propagation, fertilizer use, ijproved silvicultural practices, technical and economic assessment of improved wood
utilization and its economics, rursery techniques and formulation of forest management plans within the project area. Consultancies were to be provided under
the project in the following subijects).
1. FOREST FIRE CONTROL   Examine problem; proposals to inte-      After much advertising and discussion    overgrazing is the principal reason why Morocco has
grate Meteorology and Other Ministerial  (i.e. offers received 01/84 but were    had few forest fires to date (an average of 2-3,000
Departments of relevance, Civil          rejected because cost considered         ha/year are burned), but fencing of natural rege-
aviation., Military, Gendarmerie, etc.  excessive), cancelled by Forest Estate   neration areas could change this situation.
Plan in pilot area.                      Division of DEFCS.
2. SILVICULTURE          Primarily genetic improvement aiming     No proposals for most subjects. Gene-   Most silvicultural studies made without technical
at faster growth ard resistance to       tic inprovement limited by absence       assistance. AFOCEL genetic improvement/clonal pro-
disease using seed orchards, cuttings,   (for most of the project period) of a   pagation program will continue untiL 1992.
clones, etc. Also studies on thinmings, trained geneticist. AFOCEL genetic
fertilization, spacing experiments,     improvement program began in 1987.
rotation lengths, etc.



Page 3 of 3
MOOCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-NR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8:    Proiect Studies
Name of Study               Purpose defined at Appraisal                           Status                                        lIpact of Study
3. EXPLOITATION.           (a) Analysis of exploitation techni-        (a) No proposals; A6 above would be        Both the mobile kiln and the Casamncase chimney were
CHARCOAL PRODUCTION      ques, organizatin of coupes and             considered a contribution to this         unacceptable to the Moroccan charcoal producers (in
equipment used to recowmend improve-        subject.                                 spite a savings in time and raw materials) for various
ments to work conditions, yield and        (b) Studies were conducted on the         reasons. Use of the Casamancase chimney will be re-
product quality.                            mobile kiln by the Forest Research    raised under Forestry 11.
(b) Inprovement of charcoal production.        Dividion and a manual published in
July 1985. Demonstrations of char-
coal production by the Casamancase
chitrey were provided by a consul-
tant (Huygen) during 4/84 - 5/85.
4. FOREST NURSERIES        Proposals for rationalizing nursery        After much discussion, cancelled by         In fact, the motte moutee (which makes seedlings ex-            o
production (careful siting  of fewer,    the Forest Research Division.                 tremely heavy re carrying for long distances) is                I
larger nurseries) and for replacing                                                    gradually being replaced by ptastic sachets.
the earth cLod (motte moul6e) around
seedling roots by plastic sachet.
5. LAND  PREPARATION      Proposals for improving land clearance,  (a) Consultant (Hawkes) visited area           Stumps moved to edges of plot by tractor and trailer
FOR              stUTp evacuation, etc. in the sandy           3/83; made various proposals for         as part of land clearance; readily sold (covering most
REFORESTATION        soil of Gharb/Mamora.                         land clearance iaprovement including   of land preparation costs) to fuetwood merchants
construction of a stump splitter.        since late 1984.
(b) Consultant (Deveria) visited area
4/84, at Bank's expense, no further
improvement to land clearance sug-
gested but additional proposals on
stump evacuation.



- 31 -
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9-A: EUCALYPTUS CAMALDULENSIS: Plantation Model for 1 ha
With stum2ing '/ and one fertilization 11
Year  Activity                     Cost/ha (Db H    ContractQr'a
profit (DH)
0   Extracting stumps                                     2,877
0   Clearing stumps into windrows                         2,810
O   Levelling soil                                          454
Year 0  TOTAL            6 ! 141          incluted
1   Tracing and piqueting                                    80
1   Digging 1,100 holes and adding fertilizer               140
1   Fertilizer (superphosphate 45%: 213 kg x DH 1.30)       277
1   Plants (1,100 x DH 0.5)                                 550
1   Transport, loading, unloading, etc.                      90
1   Planting                                                220
1   Fertilizer
(Ammonium nitrate 33.5Z:125 kg x DH 1.31)
(Potassium sulphate 48X:100 kg x DH 1.85)             349
1   Spreading mechanically                                  160
1   Harrowing (2 ways) and hoeing around plants             260
Year 1 TOTAL             2.126    i2
2   Plants (150 x DH 0.5)                                    75
2   Transport, loading and unloading, etc.                   20
2   Replacing failures                                       70
2   Harrowing (2 ways) and hoeing around plants             260
Year 2  TOTAL              425    128
3-5  Guarding   (DH 29/year)                                  87
10  Clearfelling (benefits: see Table A-1)                   --
11-12Guarding  (DH 29/year)                                   58
13  Thinning (cost covered by benefits)                      --
20  Clearfelling (benefits: see Table A-1)                   --
21-22Guarding  (DH 29/year)                                   58
23  Thinning (cost covered by benefits)                      --
30  Clearfelling (benefits: see Table A-1)
Grand Total of Costs of Plantation establishment and maintenance/ha:
(rotation one: years 1-5)         DH    3,317
(rotation two: years 11-13)       DH       58
(rotation three: years 21-23)    DH        58
'/ mechanized or manual (2,130 ha were stumped manually at DH 2,772/ha plus
DH 441/ha levelling at 1987/90 prices).
3 44.31 or 7,581 ha of 17,095 ha planted.



- 32 -
MOROCCQ
GHaAiAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 211Q0-MCF
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9-B:   fiUCALYPTUS CAMALDULENSIS:  Benefits for 1 ha
With stumping and one fertilization
Year                           Activity                              Revenue (DH)
0    Stumps extracted (approximately 5o tons/ha)
- fuelwood (1001) 50,000 kg x DH 0.1/kg                  5-000
10    First clearfelling (8 e3/ha/year x 10 years - 80 m3/ha)
- pulpwood (55X)  44 m3 x DH 280/m3                     12,320
- poles    (251)  20 m3 x DH 290/m3                      5,800
- fuelwood (20X)  16 e3 x 725 kg/e3 -
11,600 kg x DH 0.3/kg               3.480
Total:21.600
20         Second clearfelling (9.6 m9/ha/year x 10 years - 96 m3/ha)
- pulpwood (551)  52.8 e3 x DH 280/m3                   14,784
- poles    (251)  24.0 m3 x DH 290/m3              6,960
- fuelwood (201)  19.2 e3 x 725 kg/r3 -
13,920 kg x DH 0.3/kg         4.176
Total:        25.920
30         Third clearfelling (7 m3/ha/year x 10 years - 70  l3/ha)
- pulpwood (551)   38.5 m3 x DH 280/r3            10,780
- poles    (251)   17.5 m x DH 290/r3              5,075
- fuelwood (201)   46.0 m9 x 725 kg/r3 -
13,600 kg x DH 0.3/kg         3.045
T2al:         18.90
Grand Total:    DH 66,420
with stumps:    DH 71.420



- 33 -
KOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REEOnI
Table 10-A:   EUCALYPTUS CAMALDULENSIS:  Plantation Model for 1 ha
With stumping'" and two fertilization v
Year                 Activity                             Cost/ha  (DH)  Contractor's
prof it (DHU
O       Extracting stumps                                    2,877
0       Clearing stumps into windrows                        2,810
O       Levelling soil                                         454
Year 0  TOTAL        6.141        included
1       Tracing and piqueting                                   80
1       Digging 1,100 holes and adding fertilizer              140
1       Fertilizer (superphosphate 45X: 213 kg x DH 1.30)   277
1       Plants (1,100 x DH 0.5)                                550
1       Transport, loading, unloading, etc.                     90
1       Planting                                               220
1       Fertilizer
(Ammonium nitrate 33.5X:125 kg x DH 1.31)
(Potassium sulphate 48X:100 kg x DH 1.85)           349
1       Spreading mechanically                                 160
1       Harrowing (2 ways) and hoeing a.ound plants            260
Year 1  TOTAL        2.126
2       Plants (150 x DH 0.5)                                  75
2       Transport, loading and unloading, etc.                 20
2       Replacing failures                                     70
2       Harrowing (2 ways) and hoeing around plants           26Q
Year 2  TOTAL         42.      128
3-5            Guarding   (DH 29/year)                          87
5       Fertilizer (superphosphate 45X: 213 kg x DH 1.30)
(Ammonium nitrate 33.5%:125 kg x DH 1.31)
(Potassium sulphate 48X:100 kg x DH 1.85)          626
5       Spreading fertilizer mechanically                     160
5       Harrowing (2 ways)                                    210
Year 5  TOTAL         996      22
10      Clearfelling (benefits: see Table B-1)                 -
11-12    Guarding  (DH 29/year)                                 58
13      Thinning (cost covered by benefits)
20      Clearfelling (benefits: see Table B-1)                 --
21-22    Guarding  (DH 29/year)                                 58
23      Thinning (cost covered by benefits)
30      Clearfelling (benefits: see Table B-1)                 --
Grand Total of Costs of Plantation establishment and maintenance/ha:
(rotation one: years 1-5)         DH      4,699
(rotation two: years 11-13)       DH         58
(rotation three: years 21-23)    DH          58
mechanized or manual (1,307 ha were stumped manually at DH 2,772/ha plus
DH 441/ha levelling at 1987/90 prices).
V 55.7X or 9,514 ha out of 17,075 ha planted.



-   ,4 
MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10-B:   EUCALYPTUS CAMALDULENSIS:  Benefits for 1 ha
With stumping and two fertilizations
Year                            Activity                         Revenue (DH)
0          Stumps extracted (approximately 5o tons/ha)
- fuelwood (100%) 50,000 kg x DH 0.1/kg           5.000
10         First clearfelling (11.8 r3/ha/year x 10 years - 118 m3/ha)
- pulpwood (55%)   64.9 m3 x DH 280/m3           18,172
- poles    (25%)   29.3 e3 x DH 290/r3            8,555
- fuelwood (20%)   23.6 e3 x 725 kg/m3 -
17,110 kg x DH 0.3 kg        5.133
Total:       31.860
20         Second clearfelling (14.2 m3/ha/year x 10 years - 142 m3/ha)
- pulpwood (55%)  78.1 m3 x DH 280/r3            21,868
- poles    (25%)  35.5 e3 x DH 290/m3            10,295
- fuelwood (20%)  28.4 m3 x 725 kg/3 -
20,590 kg x DH 0.3 kg        6.177
Total:       38.340
30         Third clearfelling (10.43/ha/year x 10 years - 104  l3/ha)
- pulpwood (55%)  57.2 m3 x DH 280/r3            16,016
- poles    (25%)  26.0 e3 x DH 290/r3             7,540
- fuelwood (20%)  20.8 m3 x 725 kg/3 -
15,080 kg x DH 0.3 kg        4.524
Total:       28.080
Grand Total: DH  93,280
with stumps: DH 103,280
M: \DAIY\PCR\MORPCR. TAB



MOROCCO
GHARB/MAMORA FORESTRY PROJECT (LOAN 2110-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Staff Inmuts (Staff Weeks)
TO
TASK            FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91  Total
Preparation             22.1      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -    22.1
Appraisal               47.8      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -    47.8
Negotiations/Board       2.4    0.1       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -     2.5
Loan Processing (LOP)   4.0       -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -     4.0
Sub-total           76.3    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   76.4
Supervision              3.5    8.5    8.5    6.4    7.5    6.4    6.0    3.2    4.6    1.7   56.3
Annual Implementation    -        -       -      -     0.2    0.1    0.1       -      -       -     0.4
Review
Project Completion        -       -       -      -      -       -      -       -     2.9    1.4    4.3
Report
Sub-total            3.5    8.5    8.5    6.4    7.7    6.5    6.1    3.2    7.5    3.1   c1.0
TOTAL               79.8    8.6    8.5    6.4    7.7    6.5    6.1    3.2    7.5    3.1  137.4
M \KENNEDY\PCRTABLE .PRN/ch



