Document of                   ox
The World Bank FILl COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3212-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
February 16, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforn~nce of|
their officit duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aotborbstion.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1 = DH5.32
DHl = us$o.188
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
LPG            Liquefied Petroleum Gas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:                  US$27.5 million.
Terms:                   Arortization over 17 years including 4 years of grace
at 11.6 percent interest per annum. Front-etnd fee of
1.5 percent.
Project Objectives
and Description:       The project area covers about 212,000 ha of forests
along the Atlantic coast east and northeast of
Kenitra. The project consists of destumping of about
30,000 ha of eucalyptus plantations and degraded cork
oak forests and replanting with fast growing species
of eucalyptus, pines and acacia; upgrading of 140 km
of access roads, construction of 40 km of new roads,
road maintenance and extension of the firebreak
network; pasture improvement over 2,600 ha; studies on
technical, institutional and financial issues;
administrative and logistical support; technical
assistance and training. The project would boost wood
production in the area, enabling the Sidi Yahia
pulpmill to increase exports by $6.3 milliont per year,
substitute for about $1.6 million per year of
industrial wood imports, and produce fuelwood
equivalent to $1.4 million per year of Liquefied
Petroleum Gas (LPG). Employment generation over the
35 year life of the project would armunt to about
28,100 man-years, mst of which for unskilled
workers.  There are no significant risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performaof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost Estimates:                       ----------uS$ million---------…     -
Local       Foreign        Total
Buildings                                   0.6          0.3            0.9
Land Development                           10.1         11.9           22.0
Plantation Development and
Fire Protection                           9.7          2.6           12.3
Road Construction                           1.8          1.9            3.7
Research                                    0.6          0.2            0.8
Pastoral Development                        0.5          0.4            0.9
Management & Support                        2.5          0.9             3.4
Studies, Training and
Technical Assistance                      0.2          0.7            0.9
TOTAL BASE COST                       26.0         18.9           44.9
Physical Contingencies                      3.3          2.1            5.4
Price Contingencies                         8.3          6.0           14.3
Estimated Total Project Cost          37.6         27.0           64.6
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                  -            0.5            0.5
Total Financing required              37.6 1/      27.5           65.1 1/
Financing Plan:                              ------------US$ million----------
Local       Foreign        Total
IBRD                                        -           27.5           27.5
Government                                 37.6            -           37.6
Total                                 37.6         27.5           65.1
Estimated Disbursements: -----------------US$ million-----------------
Fiscal Year                 1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                     3.5     4.3      5.2      5.5      7.0     2.0
Cunulative                 3.5     7.8    13.0    18.5    25.5    27.5
Rate of Return:           20 percent.
Appraisal Report:         Staff Appraisal Report for a Forestry Project
No.3676-MOR - dated February 12, 1982
1/ Includes $23.0 million of taxes and duties



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$27.5 million, to help
finance a Forestry Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum, and with a
front-end fee of 1.5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A. report
entitled "Morocco; Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributetd to the
Executive Directors in December 1980.  A mission to review Morocco's Five
Year Plan (1981-85) and development prospects was in the field in December
1981. Country and Economic Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both
in irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean
coastlines offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's
largest and wost easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the
phosphate sector a key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore,
manganese, lead and zinc are also exported, but in much smaller amolnts.
Coal and hydropower plants satisfy only a small part of the country's energy
requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has
however uranium and oil shale resources which it plans to exploit. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco. GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s.  Growth accelerated somewhat under
the 1968-72 development plan as the economy derived substantial momentum
from exports. However, a relatively weak savings effort and a small
externally financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share
of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with
no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report No.
P-3176-MOR of December 10, 1981 on a proposed Middle Atlas - Central
Area - Agriculture Development Project.



- 2 -
force was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural
sector, and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise
exports, with phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became imore ambitious.  The 1973-77
Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as well as an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, the original plan
strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings effort and the
development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled. As a result of this
windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and budgetary receipts rose
by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the petroleum import bill also
quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in
surplus. The plan's concern for exports and savings lost some of its urgency,
and the Government launched a massive public investment program which brought
about a sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy and a
considerable increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share
in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to 39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stinillated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was led
by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern of
investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure more than the
productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry, agriculture
and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize import
substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created strong
pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget. While
investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in 1977,
gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of GDP in
1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in 1976-77. The
large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an unsustainable 20%
of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed
heavily from the international capital market, which led to rapid increases in
external debt and the debt service burden. By the end of 1977, external debt
outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt service ratio rose from 5.6% of
exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977, and 18.5% in 1978.



- 3 -
9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Total
budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977, in
response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large scale
public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase in
defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara, and
the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs (particularly
education). As a result, the Government's overall budget deficit increased
sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and 1977. The
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the period led to
some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was largely allowed
to spill over into the external sector.
Recent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These measures of fiscal
restraint were combined with tight credit policies and stringent import
controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined to about 12% of
GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978. Since then,
however, the stabilization program encountered a number of obstacles,
including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise in interest on
the commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to some relaxation
of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978. Although the economy
continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by 1980 both fiscal and
external imbalances were still substantial. The resource gap (in current
prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio of the overall budget
deficit to GDP at about 11%.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies.  The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
accelerated to 16% in 1979 and 22% in 1980.



- 4 -
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a significant
boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus, despite a large
increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400 million in 1977 to
$1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest payments by about
$350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account deficit was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed considerably during the
period. However, the absolute level of gross external capital requirements
rose because of growing amortization payments on medium-term commercial
credits contracted earlier and the rise in the interest rate on these credits
in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growth dropped to 4% in 1978-80. The adverse impact of the stabilization
program on employment has probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid
rate of employment creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the demand
management policies followed since 1978 have had a high cost in terms of
growth and employment and appear to have been only partly successful in their
short-term stabilization objectives.   These results brought out the urgent
need to address adequately the long-term structural weaknesses which are at
the root of the continuing financial imbalances in the Moroccan economy, and
which must be corrected if an acceptable rate of economic growth is to be
achieved over the medium term without unsustainable external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projectionsl/ of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and spreading
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



- 5 -
the benefits of growth more widely. The main objectives are to achieve a
significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in the
elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and the
employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such changes
would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growth of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
ra'tes of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
policies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and improvements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemiployment
does not rise.



-6-
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
rortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays. However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion). However, as Morocco did not satisfy performance
criteria at the end of July 1981, its purchases under the EFF were suspended
pending an understanding with the IMF. Discussions between the Government and
the IMF are now at an advanced stage for replacement of the EFF by a one-year
standby arrangement for 1982.
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.1 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.57 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on conmercial credits. As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.8 billion annually in the early 1980s. Because of the growing
burden of debt service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and
selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government



will have to continue this policy over the next few years. Limits on
commercial borrowing are to be incorporated in the framework of the standby
arrangement with the IMF, and efforts should be continued to seek loans on
softer terms.
22.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1980, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 7 percent. The share of the Bank Group
in debt service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in 1977, and
6 percent in 1980. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are projected at about 10 percent and 11 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 51 projects,
financing a total of $1,862.1 million (net of cancellations), of which
$1,408 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $31.2 million ($17.1 million
after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA
projects. In some cases delays in project implementation have been caused
by management problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall
performance in project execution is satisfactory.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 and 26 percent
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities
(16 percent), tourism (9 percent), education (9 percent), roads (6 percent),
energy (3 percent) and urban development (3 percent). While limited as
regards the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements
armunted to 2.2 percent of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan
period), the main objectives of Bank lending in previous years were to
foster and strengthen development institutions, provide technical
assistance, especially for project preparation, and increase productive
capacity, in order to improve the balance of payments.
25.      While these objectives remain, in recent years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to redLuce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the



- 8 -
delivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; to increase employment and improve
income distribution.
26.      Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly
addresses these objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The
Loukkos project, approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives
to a less favorably endowed region and finances investments for agricultural
development, erosion control, forestry and livestock. It should have a
significant poverty impact and address major issues in developing Morocco's
relatively densely populated but poorly endowed mountainous regions. The
Middle Atlas Agriculture Development Project, recently approved by the
Board, addresses similar issues with a particular emphasis on integrated
agro-sylvo-pastoral development. Continued Bank support of rainfed
agriculture is expected to be provided through an integrated rural
development project in the Khemisset province, which is under preparation.
A fourth line of credit to Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole (CNCA) has
helped provide credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is
under preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for vegetable marketing and production, as well as
from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the
coastal fishing industry. Projects are also under preparation for research
and extension, for irrigation rehabilitation, and for development of small-
and medium-scale irrigation.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
job creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A ninth line of credit to Banque Nationale pour le Developpement
Economique (BNDE), incorporating a pilot component for export-oriented
industries, as well as a second line of credit for small scale industries
with an emphasis on job creation, were approved by the Board in mid 1981. A
project focussing on the development of electro-mechanical industries is
being prepared. The fourth line of credit to Credit Immobilier et H8telier
(January 1981) for tourism projects supports a sector which has contributed
a substantial share of Morocco's foreign exchange earnings and provided
significant employment. A project to increase the incomes of artisanal and
small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco, a region largely bypassed by
previous development efforts, is scheduled to be presented to the Board
later this fiscal year.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and
extending services to rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban
development project was approved by the Board in FY1981, which would
continue to support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic
services and employment to low-income urban families. A third highway
project approved in FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance
efforts and a fourth project now being prepared would continue support for



- 9 -
maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification approved in FY1979 is helping bring power to over a hundred
small towns and villages. A third water supply project, recently approved,
will provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas, as
well as expand a pilot component initiated under the second project to
provide credit for house connections to low income urban families. In
addition, a project to strengthen the capacity of local communities to
prepare and implement their own development programs and provide fintncing
for such programs through the Comnunal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being
prepared. It will not only help to widen the distribution of infrastructure
and services but will also support the Government's policy of encouraging
administrative decentralization and local participation.
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level
technical education and teacher training, attention has also been given to
expanding basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater
orientation in primary schooling towards practical training. A fiftlh
education project along these lines is expected to be presented to t'he Board
shortly. This could be complemented by future projects in non-formal
education and vocational training. The Government's recent policy
supporting primary health care would be tested through a project currently
being prepared as a first phase in a nationwide program to reorganize
medical and paramedical training, health education, nutrition, environmental
sanitation and family planning services, especially in rural areas.
30.      In order to aim at reducing the impact of the oil import burden on
the Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 to contribute to
the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum resources. A significant discovery of gas rich in con,densate
was made in the early stages of the drilling program financed under the
loan. A second oil exploration engineering project, to define better
potential reserves is being prepared. An oil shale engineering projiect, the
main objective of which is to help Morocco identify the best course for
development of its oil resources, is expected to be presented to the Board
shortly. Additional projects for development of coal and hydropower
resources are under consideration.
31.      The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the
public sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings,
could be reinforced by policy changes under a possible Structural Adjustment
Loan. Negotiations for a loan began in mid-1980, but were not compLeted by
the time the release of the second tranche of the IMF's EFF was postponed
(see paragraph 20). The Government has requested resumption of
negotiations; further progress would depend on the IMF and the Bank reaching
agreement with the Government and may require reappraisal of the structural
adjustment program.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
32.      Agricultural Sector Background.  About 60 percent of Morocco's
population of 20 million lives in rural areas. Since 1970, population
growth in the rural sector has averaged 1.8 percent per annum compared with
2.8 percent growth overall, reflecting rural-urban migration. In 1979,
agriculture contributed about 13 percent of GDP, employed about 40 percent
of the labor force, and accounted for about 33 percent of total exports -- a
decline from figures for the early 1970s largely as a result of increased
phosphate production and exports.  Out of a total land area of about 67
million hectares, 7.4 million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping
and 20 million are in semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for grazing and
forestry, of which 7.7 million are covered by natural forests, including
2.4 million ha of alfa. 1/ About 5.8 million hectares are cultivated each
year, with 4.5 million in cereals, 500,000 in pulses, 400,000 in fruit
trees, 140,000 in vegetables, 60,000 in sugar beet, and the remainder in
oilseeds, cotton and forage crops. Most of Morocco's rainfed areas are
characterized by traditional agricultural practices which result in low crop
yields and low livestock productivity. In 1979 permanent irrigation covered
760,000 hectares.
33.      Since 1965 agricultural output has grown  on average by 2.4 percent
per annum, with wide annual fluctuations due to climatic conditions. This
growth was below the increase in demand for foodstuffs caused by income and
population growth. The value of food imports increased on an average of 21
percent annually, while the value of food exports grew at 6 percent per
annum. A generally adequate food supply was maintained by expanding
agricultural imports and some switching of exportables to domestic
consumption. However, increasing population pressures on cultivable land
have led in some rural areas to a decline in per capita consumption levels
and some nutritional deficiencies.   Growth of output has been greatest for
products for which the introduction of modern farming techniques has been
made possible by adaptive research and appropriate extension efforts, and
prices set at attractive levels: sugar beet, sugar cane, milk and
vegetables. For other crops such as cereals and pulses where the Government
has not yet been successful in modernizing farming practices, and for crops
for which prices have been pegged at insufficiently remunerative levels --
oilseeds, cotton, maize -- the Government has met with limited success.
34.      The Government's objectives in agriculture are:  (i) to restore a
high degree of agricultural self-sufficiency and maximize agriculture's
contribution to the balance of payments by fostering export and import
substituting production; and (ii) to reduce regional income disparities and
improve living conditions of the poorer segments of the rural population by
increasing their productivity and generating employment opportunities. In
1/ Alfa or esparto grass is a long fiber grass, used mainly for
manufacturing paper, rope and shoes, and for fodder.



- 11 -
order to achieve these objectives, the Government recognizes the need to
allocate a larger share of Government resources to support the rainfed
agriculture and extensive livestock activities practiced by the majority of
Morocco's rural poor, as well as for forestry development. The investment
program in agriculture under the Five-year Plan 1981-85 reflects this
strategy as well as the importance accorded by the Government to the
sector. Agriculture is allocated 22.5 percent of total investments, against
18 percent during 1978-1980 and 17 percent during 1973-1977. Within the
sector, the share of large irrigation schemes falls from 61 to 40 percent,
while that of rainfed agricultural development increases from 2 to 18
percent, of small-scale irrigation from 3 to 8 percent, of livestock
development from 4 to 11 percent and of forestry from 4 to 10 percent. The
shift in priorities is even more radical when account is taken of
expenditures committed to completion of ongoing large irrigation projects.
35.      The Forestry Subsector.  Out of the 7.7 million ha covered by
natural forests, representing 11.2 percent of Morocco's total land area and
belonging to the state, about 3.5 million ha have real production
potential. The remainder, especially in the more arid south, are important
mainly for the protection of soils and water catchments. In addition to the
natural forests, there are about 370,000 ha of industrial plantations,
three-fourths of which belong to the state and the balance to collectivities
and the private sector. The main product of forests is fuelwood, collected
by the rural population in considerable but unrecorded quantities estimated
at about 10 million m3 in 1980. Forage on forest range is the second most
important product and contributes an estimated 18 percent of national fodder
supply. Production of pulpwood and industrial roundwood fluctuates around
0.5 million m3 per year. There is also lower but significant product:ion of
cork and alfa.   On the basis of recorded wood fiber production, which
however considerably underestimates fuelwood and ignores forage production,
the forestry subsector accounts for about 1.5 percent of agricultural and
0.3 percent of total GDP. Pulpwood, cork, plywood and alfa are exported,
but domestic production of industrial roundwood only amounts to about 30
percent of domestic demand and the balance has to be imported. While both
exports and imports have been growing, Morocco's wood product balance is
steadily deteriorating. The deficit reached $60 million in 1980, and wood
products is the third largest agricultural import item after wheat and sugar.
36.      About 150,000 rural inhabitants, most of which have income under
the rural poverty threshold, estimated at $270 per capita in 1980, depend on
the forest as a principal source of income, and the subsector provides
full-time employment to about 65,000. Of the latter, wood processing
industries employ about 38,000. There are 31 sawmills in the country and
about 600 one-man sawmill operations, mainly in the region of Casablanca,
the Rif and the Middle Atlas. Five enterprises produce woodbased panels and
five others wooden crates, mostly for exports of fruits and vegetables.
Finally, a large pulpmill operates in Sidi Yahia near Rabat and obtains its
wood supply from the project area. Its capacity was recently increased from
60,000 to 100,000 air-dried tons. The mill exports about 80 percent of its
pulp production to Europe and sells the remaining 20 percent to domestic
companies producing paper and paperboard.



- 12 -
37.      Wood, or wood converted into charcoal, is the sole fuel for cooking
and heating which is both widely available to and within the means of the
rural population, while Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) is gradually being
substituted for charcoal in urban areas. Because of the low rate of
increase of the rural population, due to high rural-urban migration, and of
increasing substitution of charcoal by LPG, demand for fuelwood is not
expected to rise above 10,000 m3 per year. Consumption of most other wood
products is low in Morocco relative to countries at a similar income level,
and is expected to grow overall at rates substantially in excess of
population growth.
38.      A long-term reforestation plan to the year 2000 was adopted in 1970
and remains the reference for the Government's reforestation activities.
The plan calls for a planting program of 22,000 ha per year on average, and
for carrying out a National Forest Inventory to provide recurrent
stocktaking of forest resources. Implementation of the plan has however
been set back by budgetary restrictions, particularly during the three year
stabilization program introduced in 1978 (see paragraph 10), when replanting
fell to 4,000 ha per year.
39.      The forestry subsector however received a new impetus in the
Five-Year Plan for 1981-1985, in which investment allocations for forestry,
as indicated in paragraph 34, increased from 4 to 10 percent of investments
in agriculture. The objectives of the Plan are to (i) increase wood fiber
production through establishment of plantations with fast growing species at
a rate of 25,000 ha per year, and upgrade forest management, to reduce the
subsector's negative trade balance and bring Morocco closer to
self-sufficiency; (ii) provide protection against soil erosion; and (iii)
improve sylvo-pastoral management to increase forage production in the
forest while containing overgrazing and limiting damage to the forest caused
by livestock. The forestry subsector also plays an important role in the
Plan's strategy to reduce regional income disparities.
40.      Forestry Subsector Issues.  Mainly because of insufficient
reforestation investments in the past, of widespread clear-cutting of
forests for fuelwood, and of damage caused by uncontrolled grazing in the
forest, forest resources are being rapidly eroded, at a rate estimated at
about 20,000 ha per year.  In order to meet projected domestic demand for
wood products (including fuelwood) on a sustainable basis in the year 2000,
an annual plantation program of at least 85,000 ha per year with
fast-growing species would be required, in addition to replanting areas
being harvested. The 25,000 ha per year provided under the Five-Year Plan
and the greater share of investments afforded the forestry subsector would
however be sufficient to reverse the decline of forest resources and allow a
greater measure of national self-sufficiency in forestry products.
Nevertheless, several other constraints to forestry development would also
have to be overcome, the most important of which are described in the
following paragraphs.



- 13 -
41.      Only about 10 percent of total forest areas have been coveredl so
far under the National Forestry Inventory and been subjected to detailed
inventory and mapping, without which adequate forestry planning and resource
management cannot be carried out. The Plan provides for a limited extension
of this coverage, which is of high priority, but full coverage will only be
achieved long after the Plan period. Meanwhile, a global inventory of
Morocco's resources through satellite imagery would be provided under the
project (see paragraph 55), which will provide less detailed but useful
information.
42.      There is a need to substantially upgrade forest management and
exploitation practices, and to improve marketing of wood products. Research
on fast growing tree species and on sylvicultural practices needs to be
reinforced. As regards exploitation, tree stands are auctioned to private
loggers, mostly middlemen with no professional skills in logging who employ
unskilled daily laborers. Harvesting is often carried out without regard to
the best economic use of various wood products. Finally, traditional
charcoaling techniques are not efficient. The project would begin to
address these issues (paragraph 55).
43.      Overgrazing is an important cause of forest degradation.  Tribes
established on land adjacent to state-owned forests are granted grazing
rights in specific forest areas. Because of a progressive extension of land
under cultivation due to population pressure, the traditional grazing areas
outside the forest are being reduced, traditional transhumance patterns are
being disrupted and livestock is becoming increasingly dependent on the
forest range for forage.  In the absence of adequate forest range mangement,
and of measures to effectively close off forest areas under regeneration,
forage resources in the forest are being depleted and trees are being
damaged through browsing and lopping. Measures are foreseen in the project
to protect areas under plantation by undertaking pasture improvement in
areas not to be replanted, to compensate for the loss of forest grazing
areas being replanted (see paragraph 54). Increased forage production in
the Gharb plain would also somewhat alleviate the forage deficit in the
region of the project. The general need to develop an integrated strategy
in the forest, on the collective range and at the farm level to increase
forage production and promote balanced livestock development, is being
addressed in the Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project, which was recently approved by the Board. The approach developed
under the Middle Atlas project would be replicated in other forest areas.
44.      Sector administration and financing.  The Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform is responsible for the subsector. Its Forestry
Department, with a staff of about 2,500 of which 270 managers and engineers
and 1,200 junior level technicians, is represented in all 28 provinces
within the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture. Forestry Councils at the
national, provincial and local levels were established by law in 1976 to
help formulate and implement sector policies with the participation of
beneficiaries. Training for forestry is carried out at the Royal Forestry
Training School in Sale for junior (1 year, 20 graduates per year) and



- 14 -
medium level (2 years, 20 graduates per year) technicians and at the
National School of Forest Engineers in Sale for engineers (4 years,
5 graduates per year). The output of the centers should be sufficient to
satisfy national requirements.
45.      Tree stands are auctioned by the Forestry Department.  A 10 percent
tax ad valorem, plus various fees and taxes amounting to between 8 to 12
percent, are applied to auction prices and are payable by the purchaser. On
private or collective land, the Forestry Department: recovers historical
establishment and maintenance costs that it has incurred, before paying the
balance to the owners. For auctions on state land, all proceeds excluding
fees and taxes are transferred to the Commune within whose boundaries the
land is located.  The Commune is required to reinvest at least 20 percent of
such forestry receipts into unspecified forestry-related investments.
However, in practice very few Comnunes use these funds for reforestation
activities, which have been mostly financed out of the Government's general
budget (79 percent) and the National Forestry Fund (15 percent) which
derives its resources from the 10 percent tax and the recovery of historical
establishment and maintenance costs on collective and private land. The
National Forestry Fund finances subsidies in kind such as annual
distribution of seedlings free of charge, and loans in kind for the
establishment and maintenance by the Forestry Department of plantations on
land privately or collectively owned. Issues of cost recovery and of
financing of reforestation are being addressed under the project (see
paragraph 61).
46.      Performance of Forestry Components in Bank Projects. 1/  There have
been no loans so far to Morocco for forestry development, although there are
three forestry components in Bank projects under implementation in the
agriculture sector. The Fez-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Development Project
(FY1978) provides for tree planting against soil erosion on about 18,000 ha
of wasteland. The Loukkos Rural Development Project (FY1980) would carry
out land clearing, creation and maintenance of pine plantation, and a
forestry research program in the Izarene forest over 7,000 ha. Finally,
under the Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development Project
(FY1981), exploitation of 124,000 ha of forests would be undertaken, and
integrated agro-sylvo-pastoral development carried out over some
600,000 ha. Of these three projects, only Fez-Karia-Tissa is beyond the
initial stages of implementation.  It is proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      Project Background.  The project was identified in April 1979 by
the World Bank/FAO Cooperative program, while investments were being carried
out for the modernization and extension of the pulpmill at Sidi Yahia (see
paragraph 36). These investments were completed in 1981 and will require an
_/ Experience under Bank projects in the agricultural sector is described
in President's Report No. P-3176-MOR of December 10, 1981 for a
Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development Project.



- 15 -
increase in wood production from the Mamora forest and the forests in the
Gharb plain. The project was prepared by the Forestry Department with the
assistance of the Cooperative Program, and was appraised in June 1981.
Negotiations took place in early February; the Moroccan delegation was led
by Mr. Belkoura of the Prime Minister's Office. A Staff Appraisal Report
for a Forestry Project (3676-MOR) is being distributed separately. I'he main
features of the loan are set out in the Loan and Project Summary, and in
Annex III. Maps No. 15932 and No. 15933 are attached.
48.      The project area covers 212,000 ha of forests along the Atlantic
coast east of Khenitra in the Provinces of Khemisset, Sidi Kacem and
Khenitra, and consists of the large forest of Mamora (134,000 ha), part
natural and part plantation, and of dispersed forest plantations in the
adjacent Gharb plain (78,000 ha). Cork oak is the main species in the
natural forest while the plantation species are eucalyptus, pine and
acacia. Elevation ranges between 25 and 300 m, topography is fairly flat,
and soils are generally sandy with low water retention capacity and
generally poor potential for agricultural production, although the potential
is good for forestry production.
49.      The Mamora forest belongs to the state, while the Gharb forests are
divided between state (43 percent), collective (38 percent) and private or
melk (19 percent) land. All forests are managed by the Forestry
Department. By regulation, 55 percent of eucalyptus wood production in the
project area goes to the pulpmill in Sidi Yahia, and the balance is used for
utility timber, poles and fuelwood. Wood production is well below potential
for lack of intensive management and of high yielding varieties. Ten tribes
have customary grazing rights in the Mamora forest, and the population
living nearby the forest has the right to collect deadwood. While in the
past the forest served only as winter grazing grounds to livestock wlhich
spent the summer in the rwuntains or on the stubble in cropping land, the
extension of land under agriculture has progressively eroded traditional
transhumance patterns and is gradually crowding the herds into the forest
year round. As a result, and although grazing rightholders have to register
their herd with the local authorities, the actual number of livestoc'k
grazing in the Mamora forest is nuch too large in relation to availa'ble
fodder. The Forestry Department by law can only close off at any time at
most 20 percent of forest areas subject to grazing rights. Policing such
dispositions is however difficult and damage to young plantations is
substantial.
50.      Project Objectives and Description.  The main objective of the
project is to increase wood production in the project area to meet the
increased demand of the recently expanded pulpmill in Sidi Yahia, to
substitute for imports of industrial roundwood, and increase the supply of
fuelwood. The project would also compensate for the pastures lost for
grazing because of the plantation program. The production increases would
be brought about by replanting old eucalyptus plantations or degraded cork
oak forests with high yielding species, and through the introduction of
better planning and management techniques. Finally, subsector issues are
being addressed selectively, and institution building would be provided, in
particular through training.



- 16 -
51.      The proposed project would consist of the following:
(a) mechanical destumping of about 20,000 ha of existing low-yielding
eucalyptus plantations in the Mamora and Gharb areas, and
replanting with improved eucalyptus stock;
(b) manual destumping of about 10,000 ha of degraded cork oak forest in
the Mamora forest area and replanting with 3,000 ha of eucalyptus,
3,500 ha of acacia and 3,500 ha of pines;
(c) upgrading of about 140 km of forest roads and tracks, and
construction of about 40 km of forest roacds, maintenance of about
500 km of selected plantation roads, and contruction of firebreaks;
(d) pasture improvements of about 2,600 ha in the Mamora forest area
through seeding and reseeding, planting of forest shrubs,
fertilization and establishment of rotational and deferred grazing;
(e)  studies on sylviculture, forest inventory, management plans, wood
utilization (including charcoal making), subsector financing; and
(f) administrative and logistical support, technical assistance and
training.
52.      The 30,000 ha to be replanted are now planted with eucalyptus in
their third or fourth coppice rotation 1/ with decreasing yields or of
low-yielding stock (20,000 ha) and cork oak (10,000 ha in the Mamora
forest). They would be destumped and replanted with higher-yielding
eucalyptus, pines and acacia, all of which have been successfully tested in
the project area. Destumping, which is currently being done manually, would
continue manually in the degraded cork oak forests but would be done
mechanically in the denser old eucalyptus plantations. While manual
destumping of eucalyptus is slightly less expensive, seasonal labor
availibility in the project area is limited and would not be sufficient to
carry out manually the much expanded destumping program to be undertaken
under the project. Mechanical destumping has been successfully tested in
the area. Approval of the collectivities affected by the destumping program
has been obtained. The seedlings to be planted would be produced in the 6
nurseries in the project area, to which one would be added under the
project, bringing annual production capacity to 10 million seedlings.
1/ About every ten years, the eucalyptus is harvested and regenerates from
the stump. The cycle is called a coppice rotation.



- 17 -
53.      The road infrastructure in the project area would be reinforced to
allow the stepped-up levels of exploitation provided under the project and
help ensure better management. One hundred and forty of the 400 km of
existing tracks would be upgraded to allow year round access for stanLdard
vehicles. About 40 km of new roads would be built to the same
specifications and both upgraded and new roads would be systematically
maintained.  Access would be improved further through the firebreak network,
which is mostly accessible in the dry season and would be extended and
upgraded selectively. Finally, housing and administrative facilities would
be built to match the reinforcement of the local forestry services.
54.      Pasture improvement would be carried out on 26 blocks of 100l ha
each in the degraded cork oak forest in Mamora, to compensate for losis of
the forage resources now available on the 10,000 ha being replanted under
the project, which would be closed off to grazing. Pasture improvement
would be based on a UNDP/FAO project being carried out in the project: area,
and would consist of reseeding of the natural vegetation, seeding of grasses
and annual and perennial legumes, fertilization, planting of forest shrubs,
fencing and the establishment of rotational grazing, which together are
expected to increase forage production three to four fold. The scheme would
be implemented with the help of a range management specialist (two
man-years) to be recruited by January 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03
(a)).
55.      A series of studies would be carried out under the project in the
areas of resource management, sylvicultural research, forest inventory and
planning, subsector financing (see paragraph 61), forest exploitation
(including charcoal making), and training. A revised forest management plan
would be fornulated, the long term objective of which would be to produce
all of the pulpmill's wood requirements within a smaller radius and
substantially reduce wood transport costs, which are now being incurred for
distances of up to 120 km. The plan would be furnished to the Bank by
December 31, 1983 and, after exchange of views, put into effect by June 30,
1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). Sylvicultural research would be
carried out for genetic improvement of eucalyptus and other species; the
effect of fertilizer use on plantation yields; thinning and tree spacing
trials, and to study chemical destumping as an alternative to mechanical
destumping. A study on forest exploitation and charcoaling would be carried
out, to help establish logging cooperatives and introduce modern charcoal
kilns. The study would be based on trials carried out with 2 or 3 groups of
forestry workers testing various equipment. The recommendations of the
study would be carried out promptly after the Government has consulted and
exchanged views with the Bank, which is to take place by December 31, 1983
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). A national forest resource study would be
carried out over 1982 and 1983 from satellite imagery, and the Forestry
Department's capability in this respect would be strengthened througlh
training and the addition of staff. Finally, a detailed study would be
carried out to assess trained manpower requirements in the subsector, devise
an in-service training program for the Forestry Department, a program for



- 18 -
the training of forestry workers, and for the training of operators in
small-scale wood processing industries. After an exchange of views with the
Bank by June 30, 1983 the training programs would be set in motion by
December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). In addition, some 28
man-months of training fellowships would be financed under the loan. About
68 man-months of short-term consultant services in addition to the range
management specialist (see paragraph 54) would be financed under the loan to
help carry out the various studies and provide ad-hoc assistance for project
execution. Terms of reference for the various studies were discussed in
outline during negotiations, and will be finalized during the early stages
of project implementation.
56.      Project Execution.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform, through its Forestry Department, would be responsible for overall
project execution. Management and supervision of project execution would be
carried out by a Project Management Unit in Rabat working under the Director
of Forestry and consisting of three senior staff, all of which have been
appointed, and of support services. To ensure coordination of project
activities at the central level, a technical coordinating committee would
meet on a regular basis under the chairmanship of the Director of Forestry,
including the five department heads of the Forestry' Department, the
concerned provincial forestry officers and a representative of the Rural
Affairs Division of the Ministry of Interior, which plays a role in the
implementation of pastoral activities. Coordination at the provincial level
would be ensured by the existing Provincial Forestry Councils chaired by the
Governor.
57.      At the local level, project implementation would be carried out by
the provincial forestry services, and monitored by the Project Management
Unit through the provincial forestry officer. Forest exploitation
committees chaired by the a representative of Forestry Department and in
which the Communal Council represents the local population would provide
advice for forest exploitation. Pastoral management would be regulated by
existing legislation providing for the establishment of local commissions
composed of representatives of the technical services, the local authorities
and the populations concerned grouped in grazing associations to be
established. The Forestry Department in liaison with the commissions would
identify rightholders, fix stocking rates and modalities for cost recovery
and establish sylvo-pastoral improvement plans.  The grazing associations
mentioned above and the sylvo-pastoral improvement plans would be
established in accordance with a time-schedule satisfactory to the Bank so
as to cover the entire forest range to be improved by the end of calendar
year 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06 (b)).
58.      Project preparation is well advanced and execution has begun.  A
pilot contract for mechanical destumping of 1,850 ha of old eucalyptus
stands was procured after local competitive bidding following procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, has been let and is under advanced execution. The
contract, amounting to about $1.5 million, would be financed retroactively.
Tender documents for the 1982-83 destumping program have been prepared.
Project execution is expected to take about 5 years.



- 19 -
59.      Project Costs and Financing.  Total project costs are detailed in
the Loan and Project Summary and are estimated at DH 342 million ($64b.6
million) of which DH143 million ($27.0 million), or 42 percent in foreign
exchange. Cost estimates include an estimated Di 124 million
($23.0 million) of taxes and duties. Cost estimates are based on recent
contracts adjusted to end-1981 prices. Physical contingencies are estimated
at 15 percent for civil works and 10 percent for equipment and operating
costs. Estimated price increases for local costs are 11 percent in 1981, 10
percent in 1982, 9 percent in 1983 and thereafter and for foreign costs 9
percent in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent in 1983 to 1985 and 6
percent in 1986. Total contingencies amount to 31 percent of total costs.
The average costs of consultant services are estimated at $10,000 per
man-month, including travel and subsistence.
60.      The proposed loan of $27.5 million to the Kingdom of Morocco would
cover the full foreign exchange cost of the project, equivalent to 65
percent of total project costs net of taxes, and the front-end fee of 1.5
percent of the loan amount. The Bank loan would be made to the Government
for a term of 17 years, including 4 years grace, at an interest rate of 11.6
percent.  The Government would finance local costs, estimated to amount to
the equivalent of $37.6 million.
61.      Cost Recovery and Subsector Financing.  On the basis of current
auction prices for wood and of current plantation yields and using a
deiscount rate of 10 percent, cost recovery for plantations to be
established under the project would amount to about 60 percent of total
plantation establishment and maintenance costs.  However, as a result mainly
of the improved yields brought about by the replanting of fast growing
species, the rate of cost recovery is projected to increase to about 97
percent, of which about 34 percent would accrue to the central budgett and
the balance to the Communes and to the tribal collectivities.  This recovery
rate is satisfactory in view of the forests' positive externalities, such as
their effect on the environment. To explore whether there is any scope for
obtaining better auction prices, prices would be monitored and the system
for setting reference prices at woodlot auctions reviewed in consultation
with the Bank by June 30, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). In addition,
a study would be undertaken to examine various alternatives to increase the
level of self-financing in the sector in order to ease the burden of
reforestation on the Government's general budget and help sustain the
increased rate of reforestation provided under the Five-Year Plan. After an
exchange of views with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of the
study by December 31, 1983, necessary steps would be taken by June 30, 1984
to implement its recommendations (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). Regarding
pastoral improvements, a grazing tax would be levied to recover operation
and maintenance costs and as high a proportion of investment costs as
compatible with the beneficiaries' ability to pay (Loan Agreement, Section
4.06 (a)).



- 20 -
62.      Procurement and Disbursements.  The largest contracts to be let
under the project would be for mechanical destumping ($32 million) and roads
($5 million). With the exception of the pilot contract for destumping being
carried out in 1981 which was let following local competitive bidding
satisfactory to the Bank (see paragraph 58), contracts for mechanical
destumping and contracts estimated to cost over $2 million for road
construction would be awarded after international competitive bidding
following Bank guidelines. Other contracts for roads and contracts for
construction of houses or buildings would be awarded after local competitive
bidding following procedures acceptable to the Bank. Because of their
relatively small size and of the presence in Morocco of competitive local
and international contractors, these contracts would not be expected to
attract bids from foreign firms not represented in Morocco. Contracts for
vehicles and equipment would be grouped as far as practicable; those in
excess of $150,000 each would be awarded after international competitive
bidding following Bank guidelines, while smaller contracts would be awarded
after local competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
63.      The loan would be disbursed against
a)   60 percent of total expenditures for mechanical destumping;
b)   50 percent of total expenditures for road construction and
rehabilitation;
c)   35 percent of total expenditures for construction of buildings;
d)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 65 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles and equipment;
e)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 7'i percent of local
expenditures for studies, consultants' services and fellowships.
Retroactive financing, in an amount not exceeding $1.5 million,
would be provided for mechanical destumping (see paragraph 58).
64.      Environmental Impact.  The project would preserve and enhance the
environmental impact of the forest, and no possible adverse effects have
been identified.
65.      Benefits, Justification and Risks.  The project's economic benefits
are substantial. The project would allow an increase in the annual output
of the Sidi Yahia pulpmill from 83,000 to 100,000 air-dried tons allowing
additional annual exports of $6.3 million totalling $190 million over 35
years in 1981 prices. The incremental production of industrial wood over
the same period would substitute for $55 million of imports. Production of
tanning bark from acacia would entirely displace imports. Annual
incremental fuelwood production would be equivalent to $1.4 million of



- 21 -
imported LPG. Direct employment generated by the project is estimated at
8,100 man-years over the project implementation period, 7,100 of them
unskilled and expected to go to the poorer workers in the region. Over the
life of the project (30 years), job creation derived from increased wood
production would amount to 14,000 man--years for logging, 10,400 for
charcoaling, and 3,700 for wood loading and handling.  Finally, the project
would substantially increase the forestry revenues of collectivities and
Communes in the area.
66.      Overall, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is
estimated at 20 percent, with the return on different tree species ranging
from 12 (pines in the least productive areas) to 25 percent. Risks are
small, including the risk of fire and the risk of pest damage. It is
extremely unlikely that yields would be so low, or delays incurred so
lengthy as to lower the ERR to less than 10 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
68.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III.
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 16, 1982
Washington, D.C.






-22-                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCU - 50C.AL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
LAND ARLA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)2
TOTAL            447.0/c                                                   MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     203. 77c                             MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 200.0       310.0    740.0                 865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMIPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     169.3       222.2    315.2                 758.3                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PoPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0     14993.0   19538.0
UKiAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3        34.6      39.9                 45.2                     64.2
POPULATION  PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      35.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        81.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
YUpULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                       26.0        33.5      43.7                 36.3                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTUKAL LAND     59.0        76.0      92.9                442.7                     94.5
PVPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.8        47.6      46.3                 44.2                    40.7
15-64 YR5.                         52.6        48.3      50.4                 52.4                    55.3
o5 YRS. AND ASOVE                   2.6         4.1       3.3                  3.4                     4.0
POPbLATION GROWTh RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.5       2.9                  2.7                      2.4
URbAN                              3.7         4.2       4.5                  4.6                      3.7
CRUDEL BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.2        47.4      44.2                 41.5                     31.4
CKUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.8         16.4      12.8                 12.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.6         3.5       3.2                  2.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         1.0       5.4
FOuO  AND NbTRITION
INDEX OF FOUL PRODUCTION
PLR CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        98.0      85.0                 96.3                    108.3
PLR CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RE(QUIREMENTS)                  96.0       102.0     105.0          ,     110.4                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0        66.0      67.0                 73.4                    65.8
OF WHICH ANInAL AND PULSE       13.0        13.0      13.0                 17.1                     34.0
CHILL (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     30.3        21.9      15.7                 14.9                     7.6
hSALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.9        51.9      56.4                 55.9                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY
BATE (PER THOUSAND)                 ..          ..        ..                   ..                    70.9
ACCLSS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             30.6        51.0      55.0                 59.4                    65.7
URBAN                             58.7        92.0     100.0                 83.9                    79.7
RURAL                             19.0        28.0      25.0                 40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        29.0        ..                   ..                    59.9
URbAN                               ..        75.0        ..                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..         4.0        ..                   ..                    30.4
POPULATION PEk PHYSICIAN          9406.1/d   12814.5   11037.4               4174.5                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2742.2    1693.5               1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            626.0       664.3     773.6                647.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..       454.7     623.4                547.2                   558.0
RUhAL                               ..      5821.4   3089.5                3361.1
ALEilSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED   .      ..        15.5      16.5                 25.3
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.8         5.5
URBAN                              4.3         4.9        ..
RURAL                              5.1         5.8
AVERAGE NUMbER OF PERSONS PER ROEW
TOTAL                              2.2         2.4
URBAN                              2.1         2.1
RURAL                              2.3         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF bWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             76. 1/e       ..
URBAN                             85.4Te      68.4      65.0
RUkAL                             30.8T         ..        .



-23 -                                      ANNE I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVETAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
HOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0         52.0      72.0                  85.1                   101.7
MALE                 67.0        67.0       90.0                101.5                    103.0
FEMALE               27.0        36.0       54.0                 67.5                    101.5
SECUNDARY:   TOTAL                 5.0         13.0      20.0                 38.0                     35.3
MALE                  7.0         18.0      25.0                 48.1                     34.9
FlMALE                2.0         7.0       15.0                 28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0       3.C                  11.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0         34.0      39.0                 34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                           ..         20.0      21.0                 23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        14.0        21.4      28.0                  43.0                    80.0
CONSUMPTIOh
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0         14.8      19.6                 18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        45.8        62.4       87.4                121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         11.6      32.6                 37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 22.0         16.2      10.7                 35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       2.0                  3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3369.7      3951.7    5117.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  10.1         14.1      15.6                  10.5                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.5        56.9       52.7                 43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.8        17.4       20.7                 27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               29.0         26.4      26.2                 26.4                     31.8
MALE                                52.1         45.2      44.2                 47.0                     49.0
FEM1ALE                              5.9          7.5       8.2                  5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6          2.0       1.9                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f      20.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.37f      49.07?
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.07?       4.07 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.07f      12.07?
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAh                            107.0       157.0      389.0                271.4
RURAL                             66.0       101.0      238.0                144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      242.0                4(00.8                   513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      157.0                290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                             51.0        38.0       28.0                 22.1
RURAL                             49.0        45.0       45.0                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithaetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick buildings only; /f Consumption expenditures of households.
Revised
June, 1981



-24 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Hones:  Aithoogh the d-ata  r  droae fins sIoce  getl   ugd  the notatoiaiead reIable, it sho-ld also be totd that tite  may so  bs tene-
oin llycoparable because ofth  lak       tudardite defintin   an  cneps  sd by different c.. tuIrlee  In collecing the dat.-   The dat  ate  teas-..
rhels1 ...a..fu1i.t desonibe orders of mgntue,idica. ~te rnde, and chergo te-ie ocsi  major differen.cta                    ..   . ti .
Therefrece  nooa  ee   )tieeas  cotay  roo   ofth  sujet cunty  nd  0)aoottr  gocynih....eohat olgihet at-ac  inom   thaIth. coun.try groap
si-~tRalfllcs                            S ttisrfeecegoP   dtate  nen    are.11.l"8  poplatonnelbte   ahiuAtlc  nc. o  eahid Iao n  shownon,ly abt ...
ajrty  of the- conramI    gophs  aafo   ia  Idcto.ife  h   ovrg   f  onrIsaon    ateiaoc   eedecth   n  laIIy  fdt
4                              for crps, pasures, mrket'an  knhdn ganen  on, to, I,cts felic - (P  dta.                          iailiaconhr.    P~iosn- al d       ared e-abihne11biits ypeofnenlpnte
i..d J. -I.tiog   oyatfaetonfhyicst   Etillsiate n.'dugB.lcpslyoef
ietp PigCMPIOA (tS) - kN  per caons setua tea ancontent  ankon prcee, ce-        dial crodaee nn Includd.  Bir..hospitas,-bomnoc. inclue healt
197._  n  17  data                                                                                 seddi....esnantant,nonda, nidnif,  et. bc    fe    tpatient econ
E.ti-   of    _I:.d                                                                 ..~~~~~~~afe   ad   rcieaIntd   nonge. of  edca  failities. drita
and  lgnIt, pe.teleu, natural  ga-    ndhdo- kcuceard..     and gantersa  slec-                  and ruebiit-i hoe tie;  i   or tupa                         ..p....en.meica .ad ....ri
trinit) in klcer Ns cicol -Puinien   retO pins; lh k, tpi-,sod                                i~ d,., IRN  etes.-ocece d dhsial   r  tanlahdad11. onlyonde  atal.
dae                                                                                              Aeanoent  optalb  -ne_hdd - dB.kAl.    1777   . ;190  d c...totl ume I t afdal,fllaions t  or, dIcare
POPPLATION Del 51101. ifAflifICi.dplid   I1;Itd   .1  , Ii-    fciil%.F.
fiNalG POpulaPTION.PE Mi-tAr fTAhosnad  --aslof   ofAl   --l9i, 19I-gan  19-9                  ptOO
od lata.                                                                                       Andereda-,SIre.of-nouhse_oId  (repents osh houehld  - onl,uran,adYae
Int   Pci    elr ntnn  i   otl J          Pati of si-a  to60 toa19p7        con0,toebl  cnt of a7 -- S-W -                      group1 of  .lcdfni   idusmthcshr   linig  uaer
T-1cut ife d191, 170  no -17  dst.                                                                the hooseba1d60ur197aeiacdc19 9urOaeING
doclnlnPrjetIn                                                                                  A-vereSinmeopnosrnpiettl   ra.ad  ua       nrg 
Peojentuon pIeli.e.  formralprtscmrs  of .itree o  denls aAaa-                                -oncpld perte.cd.  1
denere fo fferhtprae.ls  hone thre 'f-lenesseigdelneina  total, urban  sodrualdal log rlsd c iney
f_ertlt  actor ding to incom  level adi. peso fhs-h ldanfng penorsa
g birthrat  in tebialnothe dani rareL,   and, also the' age struau-    re-:str....  t                     t ofaofe ttepiayi                       spretgso   epntn
stin th   2peen liii   - . and  th  re- of. delIny   ferlei-  ity. Jren R.. to hreplc-           i-cIdr  scoo - ctonl  saeen eml -  Cam.n..               e  abts  setandary
mann bllhensl.      1I1~l-d 1    .   .   I.~.   ..                     -                         edc ttofneqsrsesgss   foorh years1 of    ppe           "Ied    .e..ryinenuiln-
lersa_J      y  nueirisnabd-Th   eree  statinnry'ppi.slJtproideec..- eserl  onnatfenal  or. Ysie   trining:l iner"aon   t o  p
sie  o  it snrsld                                                                            usualy rly2 to-7 yerstofeis; o-nesoadgIs   aceecr gemea6 l
Psr en. l. - Nid  -psepplnt    praIar. kttlenata (Pliti hceasIn cIaiae  enimetfenec n   sndn)-Nntea 1,ieeftie
-i-d aea  190  0970lll  end  iRNdta.I   h c-   1c 1.                                             inoluds fchaloel        nunil, an_ sabe  pogrime etila opnes.. dpe
Per sb. Y_e.    O saiulua  land -- Cofputd  as. sone forii egriclara  land.eanly or  is deprtmnt  of. seodr  inalnnibon-sd
Poueto I   a  iduipefercn)Jhidrn(0liyer),makieem.(5                                                pItan  ai  sconar   levl  dfnd    bys aumer  of  Isahar in. the 
hiyearn, adrtire   (651-i   yearsed uTer. aspnctaeeo   ndp hopu-                                   correapendiug  -eal."          ..      .-t..i9i.l1i.fIPP
Isino;h. 1960,   ...l se.d.lP   aa                                                               d -lyeraf   ra2 ft ncen          Literate adIt alet             r ad end mafas
Peat papile-tyon   f-n190iO,160ddan   97-9
Poplation. hroid-yt-reoet  -  re  -                itul nrr  rates of-rba  pops              ClofetPf..gPfIOt-d
popileein   1960, 1970, and 1979 da,                                                           nil many nebip-es
rousit   90 1   971, a.T n d-OPRdaa                                                         breadneetetnatesr- pulict.- per .eoo.ad o   oplta  secude Lan
of  irh-c                p....evoe   unde  aisptee  I of  atona   usl  piofin  prgrm1geeriail p                     er-.   ithousad.1papoanina;ise gades      I saiesd 1   eet
Peuaten. ofctil-heario m   fihiyets -t use birth- ontt lbdeice  nop                          CONSUPeTItCO       ueN o   )n   hssdrouein      bw  teee ete
allmarie   woaIiIae         Ig got    7onio  ofI"daily gnrlineenespeper",dl tlea  asapepindice-
Iloden oft Fnd Proucio   pe     -anl A29o     -l-O1    -J ldeb ofpetcahm   annal                 Ciem hta.....edtn nd   Cniefeefead-Nyadatth  hnhmn ofd
isP. ontlndi      yao  bss.tmnile   ie  primary1good,(e.g.1979erant                              and sebla unite..
te  es  unudd.    ggegtep               .dItid of. eah. potuanry. do ished-Y..                lsIie tRceiII(.   h.   d22lti     -Al'V.-                           -     .. 
natI1.onl a196ag  prdcr9      rc7   ni0i;  R1bS,90  aodd19799dana.                             Tona  Labo  Pnoe  -thoassed       P. - hEonmicll  stin p psesma ..Incudn
Percets  ur At.f.e..i. .pebce   of regtoinsnots -  Comute  frmamdfneaduepoedba-cldn Joseies  oa om                                                                      f sdn..
energ  epuideOni-o te-fi.d ifh.upp                I .plien a le  nconr  parw -aia                  s I.g popultio  o.if alae.Deiiin   te naio   tosptnies are
peei~ da.- Anailahespp  n  comris  dasic Ipr1ds0cnio7, ispda  less.                             non no-tale;  .161,  l9itand  r7tdsa
hashO   ln;1016,170 nl97   aa                                                                    iNPOIsad 1o- Pi   Oat.dJy- h.
Per nanino suenin   of prninfrsentdat     Proei    I.,.e  of pe   ait                    etcisit  ssfscsa  -mi,maede ofsea-Peipmnr
quite....s for el   nonnin    te hib . by ilA  '--dn- or    U.  tones                p    Itennigeeof tonal maleend fema letpopasen  af all ages rS.p            ey
aloacI f6d     rm    f  sa   rni   e   s  ad2   rt   faia  and                             1960, il-.  o  1679 dat...     Ths  are bes-ed      d on - IOsarIoipaiaerd s
pFOOD       nen oAND          1   ntsatol   eaimlpoti.T eneITeedOnelenni                                         ifag  age-en  nrn Itn of. th  populstiho , an  mgniek  rnd 
endsd ar dPlownte  thseof75 6eseo  totl p ofei  andI    grass of1                                few- sAts Ass ers from  madi-eth.sosieo.
lp    o       ldilcf   16-6,iROen   97   at.t   the total labor forc..L u                                                                              td
Pe   a Itsaoansun fo  animalend n les-Protel   upply offood de
-inad fie  atai  and-  pulses -ingrhte per6ap;961- 19           1970..     n197 977d dta.   NCIS  lIt.Igt Y""-t-                                           -      elt
age group 1i years, noobiodren inibis age grup; far man    -df-adeiPnou-         9pret   ihs  20percent  paa..    20I.  peren-, Id  d-renlPperm
trie  dean dente  fno O.plte.  .. ta lias    -~     l li            qtI.                             .p.l; 1960, 0970and197dOs9.7o9Rdseblde
Life toctce    .. at girth.  porert -neag  nunbed   of. year  of i. lb.ife. nemeinlee          Th  fllwig  snm ear  ner  ap             gsa       . ....re  otY   .e..n  eeIn.
anbitt;190  170nd  1979   . d.  pyil.i. dataf.endI si flhoul  be interpreted omi  casideabl  .eeo..170.h199d
etntiartel           i  dn at   ter  haaad)-   Aoa- deait  of  ody antso hde  on  gea         es.timte  ahplsas, Poretty      - Incm Jnte fi   Ietnetl-aM    e   aa
hen ofpeyl  (tital  orbn  and rural  nith  resnal  access' to' ne-   etftor-otstle.960
m~ ice suppl (.oincue tretdsro neetr  itinnoe                     butannnt.inted              Pletimeptedstenv   Povrnlooe   lee   P1.  ear ceete -  arMies ad- aurl
este  suc  fs thatoin  prtec te  horelhodsb  UioSDA    and. snoitaty nels                          ...s elenieo punat  mooe lve  is ose-eindio  of aveag  percait
percetages -  otfarnepecin   poploicc.   Indy  . an 0urba   seofotnitlIto                  90   90   .  17    l.pf
funIs or  nmndof  liosne  tat maetaU0-mnr   rm                     oe   a ha                   personal intone of aTh...nuntny. frbt   e lenl  is. deivd :tromeb  ppa
I  l. 1 _ c.I pi t.i. -d 23 9l.eoi  it.ajutmntfo.hg e  nsaofihte  I  abetonef
cosdrd    a   en ihin ream_ abl  access- ofl  rhnbie             n  ua   nu                  f-nistedPi     lto    eo    ieessPvryInt   evllatmn      c
rmso tale ccs ..uId impl   iha   nit huseif  onp. meber FOfi the  Thiaeld                  E_nd rapel d-lPeRcent of popino :fuphen aed. endeell         . she se   eesln
dc not hanetoepe.dn du9 pro65     rti197 tepndn1 of7the dey infetching1theb-onr-
AnossePto lerta  ly.  Flyf -percnt o    apaleio-toa . uba,l safod raal-
Buio  o  peopl -Innai  irbe.:, an  n        Pel  sotd by 1scr6ta di97 csnl as7I--           "o     IENBTO
Cian (Itatailetiota.-=                                        -h   -   h-.dJ.I- (ot   .  lh  .                                                         Stay -lNN1       b  l
PortUnion per Pitricle -. PopulationJ dioI "'d by tM             at r   1nnilg phys-
daeqalfe   frtmdos    noLatunl.osrteitbr2lps-np-e0l.-t.-dp- l  0  -
POsnItne d u-i- e Pste.inf- Pt puletin9i dinde  by numbe  oft. precloi
sale ae  fmaeVrauae  uTYs pacGsiouTe,  ndaGiseo                                                                    PSe



- 25 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                 ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USt 740 (1979)                                                                                                   Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC TNDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                  Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)                       Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                       1980          1976   1977   1978   1979        1980 Ia/        1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17640           10.2    6.5    3.4    4.5         4.0             3.9      5.7      6.2     6.6      6.7
Agriculture                 3253          4.3  -13.2   23.6   -1.7        6.2              3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5      3.5
Industry                    5599          8.8   10.0   -2.0    8.3        0.5              4.0     6.0      7.4      7.4      7.4
Services                    8788         13.3    8.3    4.3    4.2       13.0              4.0     5.2      6.2      6.9      7.0
Consumption                   15767         11.7    2.0    7.4    3.3         5.1             4.0      2.3     4.1      4.8      6.0
Gross investment               3849         20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2       -5.8             -5.2    15.7    12.8    10.2        8.0
Exports of GNFS                3273          6.3    9.8    3.8    5.5         4.8             7.6      6.5     8.8      9.6      6.8
Imports of GNFS                5247         23.8   13.5  -16.1   -1.1       -9.2             -0.3    -1.0      4.8      4.5      5.0
Gross national savings         2429         13.9   20.6  -16.6   11.5         ..             -2.2    20.9    10.6    14.1        7.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)          .       152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
Exchange rate (USt per DH)        .         .226   .222   .240   .256        .254
Share of GDP at Market Prices (x)                            Average Annual Increase (%)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                             4.0        4.9        5.7        5.9       6.8
Agriculture Ž1          29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                  3.5       -0.5        3.2        3.5       3.5
Industry b/            23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                   4.7        8.6        5.0       6.6        7.3
Services b/            47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                   4.1        5.5        7.3       5.9        7.2
Consumption                89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                  4.1        4.7        5.8       4.1        6.1
Gross investment           10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                  8.0       15.9       -2.4        9.4       7.3
Exports GNFS               27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                  1.3        2.6        6.3        8.0       7.2
Imports GNFS               26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  15.9                  3.5        7.2        2.1        2.7       4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                    3.5       13.1        3.1       10.0       8.7
As % of GDP
1960      1970       1975       1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5      16.6       23.3       22.3
Current expenditures                             15.6       14.9       20.2       21.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                        0.9        1.7        3.1        0.6
Capital expenditure                               3.8        5.9       12.2       12.1
Foreign financing                                   ..       1.4        3.7        5.5
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                      4.0        6.0        5.9       5.6        6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)           1.6        3.1       3.0        2.5        3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (X)    3.8           6.7       4.3        5.9        6.8
ICOR                                     3.09      2.77       3.87       2.88       2.74
Marginal savings rate                    0.10       0.40     -0.002      0.33       0.24
Import elasticity_/                      0.95       1.44      0.28       0.76       0.80
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
e/ Estimate.
p/ Preliminary.
February 19, 1982
EMENA CP II-8



- 26 -
Population         19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                         ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USS 740 (1979)                                                                                            Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                   Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator            (million USj at                               (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                 Actual                                       Projected
1980         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979          1980 e/  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)         2414       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    4.0           6.9       7.6    6.0    9.3   10.4    6.5
Primary products              1823       -25.3   13.1      2.1    3.8    3.5         7.3        3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.3
Phosphate rock              765       -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.2          -7.5       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                     1058       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6          17.1       3.0    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
Intermediate & manufactures 591           -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3    7.0            5.5      17.5   10.7   20.7   21.7    9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)        4283         21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7    -11.5            0.7    4.7    5.5    5.0    5.7
Food                           720        35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    1.2          10.7      -5.1   -5.3   -5.1   -5.2    4.9
Petroleum                     1006        12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2    -12.5             3.8   -4.4    3.8    4.1    3.0
Machinery and equipment        805         51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2    -19.9            1.0   17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Others                        1752          5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1    -13.8            2.4    4.5    5.4    5.4    3.2
PRICES (1969 = 100)
Export price index                  .        256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7    264.2    291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
Import prLce index                  .        205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4    293.4    326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms of trade index                .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   91.8          90.0      89.4   91.0   91.9   93.1   93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                          Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                  (at constant 1969 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                             2.0      -0.7         7.5        8.1        6.9
PrLmary products           89.5    89.7   86.9   75.5   61.3   59.8              ..      -2.2        4.7        4.1         6.0
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.4   13.1   24.5   38.7   40.2                 ..       9.0       17.8       16.0         8.1
factures
Imports                                                                             4.0       8.1         0.0        4.5        5.4
Food                       27.3    16.8   24.9   16.8    9.6    6.6              ..      14.0        0.8       -3.8       -1.8
Petroleum                   7.4      5.5   10.7   23.5   24.2   23.4             ..       9.5       10.2        1.8         2.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   18.8   28.2   32.3                 ..      12.8       -3.0       11.3         8.7
Others                     58.6    53.7   40.5   40.9   38.0   37.7              ..       3.8       -5.4        4.5         5.6
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)          Developing Countries (%)         Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960       1970       1975        1960        1970       1975      1960            1970             1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          72.3       73.7       60.8        27.7        25.4       38.8         ..            0.9              0.4
Imports                         76.7       74.9        65.7        23.3       25.1        33.9        ..              ..              0.4
e/  Estimate.                                                                                               February 19, 1982
EMENA CP II-B



- 27 -
Population         19.5 (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  USS 740 (1979)                                                                                                                                 P_   4       .
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYHEbNTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                                        Actual                                                          Projected
1970      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980 e/   1981    1982        1i83   1       1"5        W
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                 775      2580      2288      2486      2955      3694       4364        5136    5852    6758   7872   8926    6U_
Of which; Merchandise f.o.b.              488      1530       1245      1283      1488      1938       2413       2851    3314    3951   4759   5477   10336
Imports of goods and services                 946      3134      3691      4364      4353      5268       5911        6369    6899    7911   8791  9165   166
Of which:  Kerchandise f.o.b.             625      2267      2305       2820      2628      3245       3770       4158    4693    5344   6046   664    12178
Net current tr-nfers                           27         8        47        52        50         44        127          -        -        -       -       -        -
Current account balance                     -144       -546    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530          -1420      -1233   -1047   -1153   -919   -939         -516
Special grants                                          100       435       360       260       420          97        300      250      200    150    100          -
Current accouot balance after grants    -144           -446      -920    -1466      -1088    -1110       -1323       -933    -797    -953   -769   -839    -516
Private capital                                21        21        38        53        45        37          88         25       26       31      35      39       78
MLT loans (net)                                90       304       336      1338      1109       946        1188       1083      901    1121    882    97e9        n7
Official                                    .                   .                             .          ..        716      643      683    554       12      Us
Private                                                         .                                                  367      159      437    329    3"         10
Other capital                                  56       104        30        68       -73         73       -111        -70      -42      -30       -       -
Monetary movemnta                            -23         17        16         6         8        53         158       -105      -89    -169   -147   -179    -
International reserves                        161       437       548       609       772       917        814         972    1061    1229   1376   19          76 1
Of which:  Cold                            21         85        82       104       154       360        415        360      360      360    360    38         U"
Reserves as months imports                    2.0       1.7       1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1         1.7        1.8      1.8      1.9    1.9    1.9        1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT 1/
Gross disburseents                            175       664       725      1787      1182      1405        1567
Concessional loans                                  164        121       634       334       321        750
DAC                                              109        73       107       100         76         97
OPEC                                              42        41       507        189       179        598
IDA                                                1         4         3         -          -          1
Other                                             13         3         17        45        66         69
Non-concessional loans                               500       614      1151       857      1113        817
Official export credits                            3        22        27          2         2         11
IBRD                                    16       110        59        68        72       137          64
Other multilateral                                 7         2          7        51         7         13
Private                                 25       380       531      1049       732       967         729
Suppixers credits                             127        10       171        10         8          16
Financial credits and bonds                   253       521       878       722       957         713
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            703      1753      2330      4069       5123      6182       7097
Official                                        1121       250      1975      2456      2833        3482
Private                                          632      1080      2094      2667      3349        3615
Undisbursed debt                          239       652       801      1024       2280      2337       2018
Debt service
Total service payments                      58       145       162       264       547       798       1191
Interest                                23        50        66       148       252       411         618
Payments an X exports of GCS              7.5       5.6        7.1      10.7      18.5      21.6       27.3
Average Lnterest rate on new loans (U)           4.4       7.3       7.7       6.8        7.0       8.2        8.1
Average maturity of new loans (years)           18.5      14.7      11.7      13.1       13.2      15.9       13.7
As % of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                              38.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                             73.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                              6.9
February 19, 1982
ENEMA CP II-B
a! From IBRD External Debt Reporting System.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years between the extermal capital amd debt sermice floes
reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
e/ Estimated.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                                  Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                 Purpose              Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans      Fully disbursed                               411.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                            36.0
1017           1974       Maroc-Phosphore          Industry              50.0                     0.3
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              32.0                    11.0
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                         14.0         11.8
1201           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              30.0                     6.4
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                  21.0                    12.3
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education                25.0                    19.7
1299           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    49.0                     1.9
1361           1977       CNCA                     Agriculture           35.0                     0.0*
1383           1977       CIOR                     Industry              45.0                     0.4
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              41.0                    37.4
1428           1977       BNDE                     DFC                   43.2                    14.9
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering               1.5                     1.0
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                         15.7
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              65.0                   62.2
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore          Industry              50.0                    10.7
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               113.0                  112.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                25.0                    15.3
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                     Agriculture           70.0                    51.6
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             49.0                   40.4
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              58.0                   52.5
S-18           1980       BRPM                     Oil Exploration       50.0                   37.7
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                  62.0                   62.0
1848           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              34.0                   34.0
1943           1981       CIH                      Tourism              100.0                   100.0
1944           1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                        36.0
20061/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             87.0                    87.0
20371/         1982       BNDE                     DFC                   70.0                    70.0
20381/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                70.0                    70.0
Total                                                             1783.1 2/   50.0       1017.0
of which has been repaid                                        203.0         0.9
Total now outstanding                                             1580.1       49.1
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                   17.7                    2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                    1577.7       49.1
Total undisbursed                                                 1005.2       11.8      1017.0
NOTE
1/ Not yet effective.
2/  A $29.0 million loan for a Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agricultural Development Project
was approved by the Board on January 5, 1982.
*   US $40,783.65 undisbursed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan      Equity   Total
1963/1978            BNDE                          Development Bank            -        2.7      2.7
1966                 CIL                           Canning Factory           0.9        0.5       1.4
1976-               Marrakech Cement               Cement Factory              -        1.4       1.4
1977/1980            Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.8        3.5       8.3
1979                 Agadir Cement                 Cement Factory            12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                 SOMIFER                       Copper Mining             13.0       2.3      15.3
Total Gross Commitments                                                 31.2      12.6      43.8
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales             14.1       3.4      17.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                                       17.1       9.2      26.3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
C.       PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 I/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane transport eiquipment ($0.7 million).
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the costs of additional
infrastructure works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement made in
July 1980.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum.  Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and works have been
started in the remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected,
mainly because project implementation proves more complex than anticipated.
However, the first results of the completed components are promising. Because
of the initial delay and the complexity in implementation, the original
closing date was extended by three years.
Ln. No. 1201        Doukkala I Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February
27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Irrigation and drainage works have been completed and put in service.
Agricultural development has been satisfactory. The balance of the loan
remaining undisbursed is expected to be cancelled shortly, after the last
disbursement requests have been processed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
Ln. No. 1202        Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
Februiary 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; October 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of infrastructure works and public facilities
for developing Agadir into a major tourism area. Most infrastructure works
were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of public
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to administrative and project management problems. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months, and an extension of
the closing date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. After an initial two-year delay,
there has been improvement in project implementation. Construction of primary
schools, secondary schools, a teacher training college and a rural development
and extension training center is largely completed. Construction is still
delayed for the health and tourism components. A two year extension of the
Closing Date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1299        Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam, of a
120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation and of about 200 km of
225-KV transmission line, and the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and power station. The project
should be fully completed in the near future and disbursements are on
schedule. However, ONE has experienced difficulties in collecting arrears
from other public agencies. The balance of the loan remaining undisbursed is
expected to be cancelled shortly, after the last disbursement requests have
been processed.
In. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco which caused an initial delay of about
two years. However, project implementation has resumed vigorously and the
initial delay may be fully recovered.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is fully committed. An amount of about $2.8 million was cancelled.
About two-thirds of the loan have been disbursed.
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. While corLstruction is proceeding
satisfactorily on two sites, that of another site is delayed due to technical
difficulty. There has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the
project due to the lack of experience in Morocco with this kind of project.
Extension of the closing date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency
coordination.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation has been proceeding slowly, and the contract for technical
assistance has not yet been awarded.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
USF25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in virtually full commitment of the loan within the first year of the
project.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems initially delayed project start-up. Consultants have now been
recruited and bid documents are under preparation. The Project Unit has been
established, though staffing of the unit has been slow.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA's) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75 millicon is provided by IFAD
and KfW. To alleviate CNCA's short-term liquidity problems due to the recent
drought, its lenders, including the Bank, have increased their disbursement
percentages under their respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49..0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Februiary 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area.  It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections, and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-terim program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.  Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the petroleum
exploration and development efforts of the Bureau de Recherches et
Participation Miniare (BRPM), the national enterprise for oil and mineral
exploitation and development (excluding phosphates). It also provides
technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis of results of
exploration, and exploration management. Drilling so far has shown
encouraging results and hiring of the consultants is proceeding slowly.
Administrative problems delayed initial disbursements. The project will be
transferred shortly to the new petroleum development agency, the Office
National de Recherche et d'Exploitation Petroliere.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement
strengthening and maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The
hiring of consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the
slow preparation of the terms of reference.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date;June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of;
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is in its early stages but
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date; December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal Tethodologies for tourism projects.
Commitrents so far have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program for slum upgrading, sites and services and provision of serviced land
for small-scale industries, to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and
Kenitra. Assistance is also provided to strengthen the municipal services of
the project cities. Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient
coordination through the provincial Governors' offices.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981. Not yet effective. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include the construction of two regional
water supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply
facilities in about 32 small centres scattered throughout Morocco. It would
also provide revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income
households, equipment, technical assistance training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Not yet effective. Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project would
also focus on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project consists of (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project; US$29.0 million. Not yet signed. Closing Date:
June 30, 1988.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:                    April 1979
(b) Time taken by the Borrower to
prepare the project:                      26 months (April 1979 - June 1981)
(c)  Agencies reponsible for the                Forestry Departuent of the
project preparation:                      Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform, assisted by the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
(d)  First Bank mission to review Project:  November 1980
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                  June 2, 1981
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:    February 5, 1982
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             July 1, 1982.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) range management specialist to be recruited by January 31, 1983
(paragraph 54)
(b) forest management plan to be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1983
and, after exchange of views, put into effect by June 30, 1984 (paragraph
55)
(c) study on forest exploitation and charcoaling to be carried out and, after
exchange of views with the Bank to take place by December 31, 1983, the
recommendations to be implemented promptly thereafter (paragraph 55)



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) training program for the Forestry Department, for forestry workers, and
for operators in small-scale wood processing industries, to be formulated
and an exchange of views thereon to be carried out by June 30, 1983, and
the training program to be set in motion by December 31, 1983
(paragraph 55)
(e) system for setting reference prices at woodlot auctions to be reviewed in
consultation with ther Bank by June 30, 1983 (paragraph 61)
(f) exchange of views with the Bank on findings and recommendations of the
study to increase the level of self-financing of the sector by December
31, 1983 and steps to be taken for implementation of its recommendations
by June 30, 1984 (paragraph 61)
(g) grazing tax to be levied to recover operation and maintenance costs of
pastoral improvements and as high, a proportion of investment costs as
compatible with the beneficiaries ability to pay (paragraph 61)
r






IBRD 15932
'SSI ISIA Y.                      KINGDOM    OF  MOROCCO                                                    B'                                                    A YCOUST 19i.°3.
MOCGRbC7E                                        FORESTRY  PROJECT                                                                    =Trc!
MOROCCO_I'  \   (   B                  Forest  Resources                                                                     , r      Jfo
rLIBYA     EP EGYPT              Mailn Forest P''d-to  Are os (Cwk          ,, 04,.Ce.olM, RefosestElnoi)      t,oc/h.
* JRiYANIn   ,~.   ~'f    .-- ..                               Multlple Use Forest Areo (Accent on co-ser-oSion)                          n,e, 2  .r f'  s                                        ('So
(  ,    L        ,,MoIQP Alfo Prodocin  Ato                                                                                                                In-
AL,N CPA    IThAA          A SnDAN                  Argon  Areos                                                      CYnLnIA,nd,, AreaU  b                    z          CAs
C A                                                                                                                                - N A R YT
--                                  '.AD                                                     lnlno    - 
N 'CAI                                    Moon Roodsnn5i                                                               x     4st /PaS o   OnAp
CASPA,                      SecQndory Roods                                           M             t_ oF-d i     /                                                       v  l     e
FRL o  yr s   -             ,d,'5,A
Solt Lokes =  _                                                                                                      , N
322'                                                                    Eleontio,,s aovoe 1,000 meters                 S,,L,                                                          oA  y,
neptnl Boosdoes                                                                                                                                        323 o-
fndicotes the territory of the                                                                        n.
l- frer Sportish Sssharo
(Western, Sahora)                Es-o.on/(I.n
9 n/ny- 2m@Cr                                pod                             C  Pso Alls,
_24  ' j-    eAP\,
CANARY   I C  ALAS N DoC oY                                                                 CO5IYT                                                                                       r
.--:  i  M    A    L Is2p
T,nnnf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'d.
,i'Yoto ./      ,'AL G ERIA                                                                                                    n.                              I
S~~~~~~~~~~~o, F,,>,°a                                                        N                                                                              Pngnnn
N1
N..
ner=,ofl-wE= ..... Z j                                                        M     A         U    R    I   T    A    N   I   A'
f ~    ~       ~       A-EsLI j1                                                                                                                                                      N .l  ' e  f      
oaccqFZecor2            - -ft   - - - -     - -        -       -
/2 1  N?'                                                                                         4'                                           T






IBRD 15933
I      ~~~~~~~~'~L
7/    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
UJ ~     IJA
I-N
0
0  A                                                                                                      co~~~~~~
*o              -



