Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  50868 
Operation Name 
Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC6) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (40%);General finance sector 
(20%);General industry and trade sector (20%);General public 
administration sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P117234 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
September 30, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 30, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 12, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mozambique has been a very strong performer in Africa, with rapid growth and poverty 
reduction, as it recovers steadily from the damage of the civil war concluded in 1992.  
Mozambique’s growth record has been remarkable, averaging above 8 percent from 1993 to 
2008, making Mozambique the fastest growing non-oil economy in Sub-Saharan Africa. This 
performance has been made possible by the good macroeconomic management, and was driven 
by a few significant foreign investment projects (“mega-projects”), buoyant donor support, 
healthy agricultural growth, and foreign direct investment in services sector. 
Mozambique’s rapid economic growth has been accompanied by significant strides in reducing 
poverty. Household survey data indicate that the national poverty headcount fell from 69 to 54 
percent during 1997 to 2003. Reduction in rural poverty has been even more pronounced, 
although the proportion of rural poor remains higher than the urban poor.  While Mozambique 
has been very successful in achieving a major reduction in poverty, by 15.3 percentage points 
between 1996 and 2003,   the southern region of the country experienced an increase in poverty 
rates, especially in the city of Maputo and the surrounding province.  The next household survey 
due in 2009 will show whether poverty has continued falling. 
Visible progress occurred in social conditions as evidence of the decline in poverty measured by 
the latest household survey.  In addition to the reduction in poverty, other social indicators have 
also shown significant improvements since the mid-1990s, including in: (i) Primary Education 
(in grades 1–7) the number of children more than tripled from approximately 1.3 million in 1992 
to 4.2 million in 2008; (ii) net enrollment  in  primary education doubled from 45 percent in 1998 
to over 96 percent in 2008; (iii) net enrollment of girls rose from 40 percent to 93 percent in the 
same period; (iiii) infant mortality decreased from 145 per 1,000 live births in 1996 to 93 in 
2008; (v) maternal mortality was reduced from an estimated 1,000 per 100,000 live births in the 
Page  2
2
early 1990s to  340 in 2007 and (vi) and the share of the population with access to an improved 
water source increased from 39 percent in 1995 to 48 percent in 2008. 
Mozambique has made substantial progress towards achieving the poverty Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Assuming that the trend between 1997 and 2003 has continued, 
Mozambique would be on-track to halve the population living in absolute poverty by 2015.  As 
mentioned, reducing hunger and child malnutrition remains a challenge. The MDG for 
sustainable coverage for water supply could also be met, given the rapid improvements in the 
provision of urban water supply, although significant progress is needed to increase access to 
water in rural areas. There has also been substantial progress toward other MDG targets, 
specifically on improving universal primary education, gender equality and women’s 
empowerment, reducing child mortality, and improving maternal health.  Nevertheless, more 
progress will be required to meet these MDGs, while combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other 
diseases remains a serious challenge.  
Despite the promising progress, significant challenges remain. The country remains poor 
(USD454 per capita income in 2008, using the Atlas methodology), social indicators are low, 
infrastructure is inadequate, and the business environment remains unfriendly. Adult literacy 
rates are low (approximately 47 percent), and life expectancy at birth remains very low (42 
years).  Despite economic growth, malnutrition has worsened in Mozambique from 2003 to 2008 
with the percentage of chronically malnourished children (stunted) increasing from 44 percent to 
48 percent. The country also relies heavily on foreign aid, which makes up about half of its 
overall budget.  Additionally, the impact of HIV/AIDS and malaria on the population has serious 
consequences.    
Constraints to private sector development and trade remain substantial, and more progress is 
required to improve the business environment.  Mozambique’s ranking in the 2010 Ease of 
Doing Business was 135
th
 out of 183 countries, reflecting the numerous challenges facing the 
private sector in Mozambique.  Mozambique is ranked 110
th
 out of 150 countries on the 2007 
Trade Logistics Performance Index. Its weakest indicators are quality of transport and IT 
infrastructures. Mozambique is 126
th
 (out of 180) on the 2008 Transparency International 
Corruption Perceptions Index (and 25
th
 out of 47
 
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa).  In the 2009 
Worldwide Governance Indicators Mozambique surpasses the SSA and low income group 
averages on all six aspects of the index (voice and accountability, political stability, government 
effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and control of corruption).  In spite of the 
significant progress, the country’s secondary school (28 percent in 2008) and tertiary (1.1 
percent in 2008) enrollment rates are only a fraction of the comparators’ countries. 
Progress in public sector governance has been mixed.  Significant progress has been made in 
improving transparency and accountability by strengthening Public Financial Management 
systems, including in procurement and in internal and external audit. There has been progress 
towards improving the management of natural resources, notably by strengthening the legal 
framework regulating the fiscal regimes for mining and petroleum in 2007.  In addition, in May 
2009 Mozambique was accepted as a candidate to the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative 
(EITI).  Progress however remains limited in the Justice Sector and in Anti-Corruption, such that 
improvements in the efficiency and transparency of the justice system remain elusive, and 
corruption and conflict-of-interest remain central issues. Also, despite some recent progress, 
implementation of the public sector reforms program remains slow. 
Page  3
3
Mozambique’s economic growth continues to be strong, but the structure of the economy 
remains narrow. In line with the good performance of the past 15 years, Mozambique’s GDP 
growth was 6.8 percent in 2008, slightly below the 7.4 percent achieved in 2007.  The rapid 
economic growth continues to be made possible by overall macroeconomic stability, policy 
reforms and continuing strong donor support, permitting broad-based expansion across most 
sectors of the economy, and mega-project investments.  Nevertheless, the productive base of the 
economy remains narrowly focused on subsistence agriculture and a few isolated mega-projects.  
Agriculture, which employs about 78 percent of the economically active population, accounted 
for 23 percent of GDP in 2008.  It was followed by the manufacturing industry at 13 percent 
(mostly accounted for by one large aluminum smelter), trade and retail services at 11 percent, 
and transport and communications also at 11 percent. The contribution of the remaining sectors 
was between 5 percent (financial services) and 1 percent (extractive industries).   
Reflecting the composition of economic growth, the export basket remains extremely limited 
with less than a dozen products registering exports in excess of US$1 million.  Overall 
Mozambique’s exports increased dramatically (in real terms) in the late 1990s and early 2000s, 
with average growth rates of 14.9 percent and 19.8 percent in 1995-1999 and 2000-2008, 
respectively. Most of this growth, however, was driven by exports from mega-projects; 
excluding mega-projects, exports grew by 10 percent on average during 2000-2008. In fact, more 
than half of Mozambique’s exports remain concentrated in an enclave aluminum smeltering 
operation.  Mozambican exports need to be further diversified, into traditional commodities with 
secure market access and non-traditional commodities which have higher value-added content, 
preferably taking full advantage of the relatively cheap labor. 
Prudent monetary and exchange rate policies have brought price stability and lower interest rates.  
The foreign exchange market remains stable, and reserves are at a comfortable level.  Fiscal 
performance has been conducive to economic growth and the medium-term fiscal strategy 
objective is to make room for private sector credit by avoiding recourse to domestic financing.  
Credit to the private sector has been growing faster than GDP growth, consistent with the 
government fiscal policy and in parallel with improvements in the soundness, depth and 
profitability of the Mozambique financial system. Public and private investments continue to 
grow. The government skillfully managed the response to the global food and fuel prices hikes in 
2008 focusing on promoting agricultural production, while also taking immediate action to 
protect the vulnerable population from the impact of the price shocks.   
The medium-term outlook is characterized by uncertainty, with the impact of the crisis in 
Mozambique expected to continue in 2010 and 2011.  The government has taken steps to 
mitigate the impact of the crisis, but faces difficult trade-offs. Fewer public and private resources 
are now available to finance investments and economic growth is expected to slow down 
substantially in 2009 and 2010. The financial crisis therefore has reemphasized the need to 
refocus efforts towards increasing the efficiency in the use of public finances and taking action to 
increase private investments and boost economic growth.  The likely growth scenarios for the 
future – and the corresponding poverty scenarios – will heavily depend on the Government’s role 
in removing constraints to continued growth, as well as its role in seizing new opportunities for 
growth.  Only rapid progress in certain key reforms, can keep the growth rate as high as 7 or 8 
percent in the medium term, and continue the rapid rate poverty reduction of the past decade.   
It is critical therefore that the Government pursues a reform program to resolve the key 
challenges to growth and poverty reduction.  In this context, this new PRSC series focuses on the 
Page  4
4
top two priorities for the Government of Mozambique, namely improving the efficiency in the 
use of its scarce resources and boosting private sector investment and economic growth.  
Boosting economic growth is also widely expected to be at the core of the next PRSP (to be 
prepared in mid-2010), and this PRSC series will provide a transition from the old to the new 
PRSP, with a more growth-oriented focus. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-6) is the first in a new PRSC 
series designed to assist the Government of Mozambique (GoM) to implement key policy actions 
outlined in its 2005-2010 Second Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (known as 
PARPA II by its Portuguese acronym).  In particular, the PRSC series supports a strategic subset 
of objectives from the PARPA II results matrix focusing on improving financial management 
systems and adopting growth enhancing reforms to increase private investment.  Within this 
context, the PRSC-6 is expected to help the GoM in: (a) the consolidation and deepening of the 
institutional reforms in the area of the budget process and the use of public resources, the 
efficiency and effectiveness of public financial management, the transparency and efficiency of 
the State procurement system, and the coverage and efficiency of external audit; and (b) 
economic development by removing constraints to growth, notably by reducing structural 
constraints to financial intermediation including  reducing excessive regulation constraining 
business activities, improving the information basis for access to credit, and promoting more 
efficient land use and better access to land.  
The PRSC series is fully harmonized within the joint budget support mechanisms (and uses the 
Performance Assessment Framework) agreed by the GoM and the 19 external partners that 
provide general budget support (GBS) to GoM.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board 
in May 2007, and closely aligned to the Government program. Bank support to the PARPA II is 
through the FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS; Report No. 39395-Moz).  As 
government policies and budget are the key instruments for implementing the PARPA, the Bank 
is committed to supporting and aligning with the budget process. The indicative lending scenario 
of the CPS envisages programmatic support through consecutive PRSCs, with a focus on 
supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing accountability and public voice and fostering 
sustainable and broad-based growth. In line with the Government program, and as reflected in 
the CPS, the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes the centrality of the growth 
agenda and the importance of enhanced public financial management reforms.   
 
4. 
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
110 
 Total 
110 
 
Page  5
5
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The new PRSC series is fully aligned with the harmonized system for the provision of the joint 
General Budget Support program of the G19 (for details see website: 
http://www.pap.org.mz/
). 
In order to reduce the transaction costs for the Government, the Bank carries out all supervision 
jointly with the other donors. It participates in the Troika Plus (consisting of three donors/a 
chair/co-chair and outgoing chair, forming the troika chairmanship 
–
EC and WB are permanent 
members, thus forming the Troika Plus), the overall coordination mechanism set up by the G-19, 
and all the relevant coordination meetings. All Bank sector missions working for the PRSC team 
liaise closely with and through the respective joint sector working groups to assure maximum 
coordination with all other sector partners. 
The MoU defines two key review events per year. A Joint Review takes place each year in April 
(year n). It assesses the performance of the government in the previous budget year, which 
corresponds to the calendar year (year n-1).  The review focuses on evaluating progress with 
regard to the indicators defined in the PAF and makes an overall assessment of progress, 
resulting in disbursement commitments for the following year (year n+1). The second event is 
the ‘Planning Meetings’ in September. This review is forward-looking and formalizes the 
agreement on the performance indicators and targets for the following year (year n+1). 
Programmatic lending will be complemented by investment support. PRSC support will coexist 
with investment support to well-articulated sector programs, and with technical assistance to 
develop government systems and capacities necessary for an increased reliance on them. 
In addition, the supervision of the PRSC is done on a continuous basis in harmonization with the 
other general budget support donors, through the monthly joint government-donor steering 
committee meetings.  Progress in each sector is monitored by joint government-donor sector 
working groups.  Bank staff actively participates in these meetings through its staff in the field 
offices and Washington (through missions or by videoconference). The Task Team Leader for 
the operation is based in the field. Furthermore, the Bank participates in joint IMF-Bank 
missions to monitor progress in the macroeconomic framework. The Bank and the Fund also 
monitor jointly progress in implementing the PARPA-II.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
 The operation will help the GoM to maintain macroeconomic stability while it 
continues to pursue a reform agenda that cannot be fully financed from domestic sources. The 
reforms should enable Mozambique to make further progress in reducing absolute poverty, 
improving the delivery of services and achieving the MDGs. The alignment with the general 
budget support programs of 18 other donors and a joint focus on the priorities set out by the 
GoM in its comprehensive poverty reduction strategy, and on a common set of indicators to 
measure progress, should help improve the resource flow and improve aid effectiveness, thereby 
enhancing the chances of progress towards the MDGs. 
 
Risks:
 A first set of risks is concerned with the potential for macroeconomic instability, due to 
the financial crisis, and the upcoming political elections in 2009.  The impact of the financial 
crisis on the Balance of Payments (BoP) and the fiscal accounts remains uncertain.  Should the 
Page  6
6
crisis deteriorate, the possibility exists that the impact will be more severe than currently 
anticipated.  In this respect the Bank is proposing to increase the level of budget support to 
contribute to close the BoP and fiscal gap created by the crisis.  An additional set of risks arises 
from the Parliamentary and Presidential elections which are scheduled in late 2009 and could 
create pressures for additional spending that is not sustainable.  The Bank team will continue to 
monitor the macroeconomic policy framework and its adequacy for the provision of budget 
support. A second set of risks concerns slower implemention of the reforms program in the 
context of the upcoming elections.  In order to mitigate this risk, the Bank team will increase its 
engagement at the technical level by facilitating the preparation of the technical underpinnings 
required to implement the reforms. A third set of risks concerns a deterioration in governance 
that could compromise economic reforms and poverty reduction efforts.  To mitigate this risk, 
IDA is increasing its activities in the areas of Governance, including strengthening voice and 
accountability which  is one of the three pillars of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy 
approved by the Board in May 2007.  IDA already holds an active policy dialogue with the 
authorities on the subject and closely monitors developments associated with governance.  The 
restructured Public Sector Reform Project has a new legal sector capacity building component. 
Also, as part of the activities supported by the CommGAP Trust Fund in Mozambique, IDA is 
working to enhance citizen’s voice, strengthen the media, and modernize the government’s 
communication functions. Last but not least, IDA is working with government to carry out a 
program of beneficiary surveys to increase public involvement in the monitoring of service 
delivery. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The legal framework for the environment is relatively well developed in Mozambique, but 
capacity to implement and enforce it remains limited. The framework for environmental 
management in Mozambique is defined by the Law of the Environment (Law n° 20/97), which 
applies to all public and private activities that may influence environmental aspects. All activities 
that may result in a significant impact on the environment are subject to an Environmental 
Impact Assessment, which has to precede any issuing of licenses and investment activity.  
The Bank team is working to assess the capacity of the Government to carry out Environmental 
Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA). The Bank is 
financing a stocktaking of mega-projects that will map forthcoming investments and policy 
reforms with potential negative environmental impact, propose a typology of possible 
environmental issues linked to these investments and related policy reforms.  The stocktaking 
will also identify the future needs for Mozambique in terms of Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA. The activity is closely 
coordinated with The Ministry for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) and the 
G19 partners, in the context of the five joint environment working group. 
The reforms supported in this PRSC series are not expected to have significant positive or 
negative environmental effects.  The PRSC series supports policy actions that create the enabling 
environment to support poverty reduction, and which by themselves do not have an 
environmental impact.  It is expected, however, that regular private and public investment 
activities which may result from such policy actions, could have stronger impacts on the 
environment.  For instance increased land taxation is expected to promote more intensive use of 
the land currently lying idle.  Environmental aspects of the reform of land taxation will have to 
Page  7
7
be considered during the preparation of the reform. Nevertheless, it is not expected that there will 
be need to introduce special measures since all activities to be carried out on the land are subject 
to the Mozambican legal framework for the protection of the environment, and as discussed 
above the Bank is working to help the government to develop and implement appropriate 
policies in the areas of natural resources, environment and adaptation to climate change.  This 
also includes the potential effects from increasing exports 
–
which may include mining, energy 
and forestry.  Increasing exports of any of these sectors could have a large impact on the 
environment and forestry.  As mentioned above, the Mozambican legislation requires that such 
impacts would have to be identified as part of the preparation of the individual business projects, 
and evidence provided on how the developer proposes to manage these impacts.  In this context 
it is worth noting that the regulatory simplification envisaged under PRSC-8 will be carried out 
with the involvement of MICOA and the Ministry of Health, in order to preserve the 
government’s regulatory capacity in environmental and health safety issues.   
The poverty and social impacts of the policies supported by the PRSC series are expected to be 
positive. Analysis carried out on the impacts of growth on poverty reduction in Mozambique, has 
shown positive links, which has so far not been accompanied by significant increases in 
inequality.  The poverty reduction impact of the policies supported by the series is expected to be 
significant, increasing the likelihood that Mozambique will reach the first Millennium 
Development Goal. The specific country policies supported by the PRSC series are not expected 
to have significant distributional and social impacts, except possibly positive ones arising from 
the increased effectiveness of the land tax administration system (as the land tax system would 
be designed to be progressive). 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (+258) 21482371 
Fax:  (+258) 21492893 
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
