Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4660 - MOZ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 20, 2009  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4660 - MOZ 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 20, 2009, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
MOZAMBIQUE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to sixty-nine million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 69 500 000
)
(variously, “Credit” 
and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and Development.  
Page  4
3
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
Ministério da Planificação e Desenvolvimento  
Caixa Postal 4087 
21 Av. Ahmed Sekou Touré 
Maputo 
Republic of Mozambique  
 
Facsimile: 
 
+258-21497663 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Maputo, Mozambique, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By  /s/ Aiuba Cuereneia 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By  /s/ Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. The 
Recipient’s overall budgetary envelope and the amounts allocated to priority sectors, 
both as reflected in the Recipient’s State Budget of 2009 are in line with the first year of 
the MTEF 2009-2011.   
2. 
At least 90 percent of the total value of budgetary purchases of goods, services and 
investments for the Recipient’s Budget Execution Units during Fiscal Year 2008 has been 
effected through e-SISTAFE by means of Direct Budget Execution.  
3. 
The operation of the Recipient’s procurement has been strengthened as indicated by 
information available to UFSA demonstrating that: (i) at least 88 percent of public sector 
contracts (in terms of number) let in Fiscal Year 2008 were subject to public tender in 
accordance with the Current Mozambican Procurement Legislation; (ii) at least 90 
percent of public sector contracts (in terms of number) procured on the basis of direct 
contracting and single source selection during Fiscal Year 2008 were duly justified; (iii) 
the process for handling complaints by bidders as defined in the Current Mozambican 
Procurement Legislation, is operational.  
4. 
The Recipient’s Court of Accounts has concluded its audit of at least 30 percent of the 
Recipient’s State Budget of Fiscal Year 2008 according to INTOSAI technical standards 
and according to Mozambican legislation.  
5. 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has approved a new Medium Term Pay Policy for 
State officials and civil servants designed to be consistent with fiscal sustainability.  
6. 
The Recipient’s MOF has elaborated the Recipient’s transition plan for the adoption of 
mandatory IFRS.  
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Page  6
5
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
69 500 000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
69 500 000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an 
account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. 
Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the Recipient’s 
budget management system referred to in Part C of this Section audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association;  
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than three months 
after the end of the Recipient’s Fiscal Year, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account and 
recording of Credit amounts into the budget management system, and their audit, as the 
Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is October 31, 2010. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing November 15, 2019 to and including 
May 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing November 15, 2029 to and including 
May 15, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Budget Execution Units” means the Recipient’s 
Unidades Gestoras Executoras 
as 
defined by Chapter III of the Recipient’s 
Regulamento do Sistema de Administração 
Financeira do Estado 
and approved by 
the Recipient’s Decree 23/2004 of 
August 20, 2004 and published in the Recipient’s 
Boletim da Repùblica
 on 
August 20, 2004
.
2. 
“Council of Ministers” means the Recipient’s 
Conselho de Ministros 
as defined by Title 
VIII, Chapter I of the Recipient’s 
Constitution of the Republic Mozambique 
(1990, as 
amended 2004). 
 
3. 
“Court of Accounts” means the 
Tribunal Administrativo
 of
Mozambique, the creation and 
powers of which are provided for in Title IX, Chapter III, Section III of the Recipient’s 
Constitution of the Republic Mozambique 
(1990, as amended 2004). 
 
4. 
“Current Mozambican Procurement Legislation” means the Recipient’s Decree 54/2005 
of December 13, 2005 and published in the Recipient’s 
Boletim da Repùblica
 on 
December 13, 2005. 
 
5. 
“Direct Budget Execution” means a modality for authorizing expenditures consisting of 
three phases: the commitment of the expenditures, the liquidation when resources are 
assigned for payment and the actual payment to the supplier of goods or services.  
 
6. 
“e-SISTAFE” means the Recipient’s electronic integrated financial management system, 
as created and mandated by the Recipient’s law 
Lei no. 09/2002
 of
February 12, 2002. 
 
7. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Page  9
8
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means January 1 to December 31. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
10. 
“IFRS” means International Financial Reporting Standards, a set of international 
financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements set by the 
International Accounting Standards Board, the independent standard-setting body of the 
International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation. 
 
Page  10
9
11. 
“INTOSAI” means the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions, an 
autonomous and independent, non-government organization, with headquarters in Vienna 
Austria.  
 
12. 
“Medium Term Pay Policy for State” means the Recipient’s 
Polìtica Salarial de Médio 
Prazo
,
the Recipient’s 
Medium Term Pay Policy for State 
as
 
approved by the Recipient’s 
Council of Ministers on September 9, 2008. 
 
13. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any 
successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“MTEF 2009-11” means the Recipient’s 
Cenário Fiscal de Médio Prazo 2009-2011
,
the 
Recipient’s 
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework 
as approved by the Recipient’s 
Council of Ministers on September 2, 2008.  
 
15. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated September 24, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
16. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
17. 
“State Budget” means the Recipient’s 
Orçamento do Estado
,
the Recipient’s State 
Budget
 
as defined by Article 130 of the Recipient’s 
Constitution of the Republic 
Mozambique 
(1990, as amended 2004). 
 
18. 
“State Budget of 2009” means the Recipient’s 
Orçamento do Estado de 2009
,
the 
Recipient’s State Budget of 2009 as
 
approved by the Recipient’s law 
Lei 
n.º 1/2009
 of 
January 8, 2009
 and published in the Recipient’s 
Boletim da Repùblica
 on January 8, 
2009. 
 
19. 
“UFSA” means 
Unidade Funcional de 
Supervisão das Aquisições
,
the Recipient
’s 
Procurement Supervision Unit in the MOF created by the Recipient’s Decree 54/2005 of 
December 13, 2005 and published in the Recipient’s 
Boletim da Repùblica
 on  
December 13, 2005.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  11
10 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
Page  12
11 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
