Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4980 
Operation Name 
Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC6) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance 
(40%); General finance sector 
(20%); General industry and trad
e sector (20%); General public 
administration sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P117234 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
August 6, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 15, 2009 
 
1.
 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mozambique’s macro-economic performance for the past
 decade has been very strong, with an average 
GDP growth rate of 8 percent, and the Governme
nt has been implementing an active program of 
structural reforms. There is a good momentum fo
r continuing the reform program and striving to 
broaden the growth.  However, th
e financial crisis has clouded the 
economic outlook.  Fewer public and 
private resources are now available to finance inve
stments and, economic growth
 is expected to slow 
down substantially in 2009 and 2010.  
In this context, this new PRSC
 series focuses on the top two 
priorities for the Government of Mozambique, name
ly improving the efficiency in the use of its 
resources and boosting private sector investment a
nd economic growth.  Boosting economic growth is 
also widely expected to be at th
e core of the next PRSP (to be prepared in mid-2010), and this PRSC 
series will provide a tr
ansition from the old to the new PRSP, 
with more of a focus on broad-based 
growth. 
 
Mozambique has a vast, diversified 
export potential, includ
ing in mining, energy, agribusiness, fishing, 
forestry, tourism, light manufact
uring and services serving as a 
gateway to neighboring countries.  
Mozambique also has a largely untapped potential in
 electricity production fr
om hydro and coal as well 
as in mining in general. While these projects are im
portant for the country, they create relatively few 
jobs.  The challenge for Mozambique is how to sustai
n high growth and reshape its pattern to generate 
more employment by exploiting all these export opportuni
ties.  A number of constraints have to be 
addressed to exploit these export po
tentials. They can be categorized 
as: (i) macro-environment, (ii) 
factor markets, (iii) trade logist
ics, (iv) institutions supporting e
xports, and (v) prof
essional services. 
 
Mozambique needs to implement reforms enhancing br
oad growth, and also ch
allenging institutional 
reforms, to avoid a slowdown in growth in the medium
-term.  The likely growth scenarios for the future  
– and the corresponding poverty scenarios – will heavily depend both 
on the Government’s role in 
warding off threats to continued gr
owth, and on its role in seizing ne
w opportunities for growth.  Only 
rapid progress in certain key reforms 
can keep the growth rate as high 
as 7 or 8 percent in the medium 
term, and continue the rapid rate poverty reduction of 
the past decade.  It is critical therefore that the 
Government pursues a reform program to resolve th
e key challenges to growth and poverty reduction.   
 
In September 2006, the Government formally adopt
ed the Second Poverty Reduction Strategy (PARPA 
II). PARPA II is the operational pl
an for the Government’s Five-Year Program (2005-2009), and sets 
out a broad and ambitious agenda of reforms. PA
RPA II builds on the experien
ce of PARPA I, and was 
Page  2
prepared through broad-based consu
ltations with major st
akeholders and civil 
society. The PARPA II 
for the first time includes a strate
gic matrix of key indicators, a jo
int effort by the Government, donors 
and civil society.  
 
While maintaining its commitment to improve quality and access to social services, PARPA II 
recognizes that “rapid, sustainable and broad-base
d growth” warrants more emphasis on the growth of 
the productive and private sectors. 
 The strategy envisages small and medium enterprises (SMEs) as the 
engine of employment generation.  
Rural development has a central pla
ce in the strategy.  An essential 
role is attributed to districts as
 the focus of development.  There 
is also a clear 
recognition of the 
challenges related to HIV/AIDS, with a credible 
strategy for accelerating the 
national response to the 
AIDS pandemic.  Overall, the priority areas for 
public policy to sustain 
growth and poverty reduction, 
and improve service delivery are arranged under three 
pillars:  (i) governance; (i
i) human capital; and 
(iii) economic development. 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country
 Partnership Strategy approved by the Board in May 
2007, and closely aligned to the Government program. Bank support to the 
PARPA II is through the 
FY08-11 Country Partnership Stra
tegy (CPS; Report No. 39395-Moz)
. As government policies and 
budget are the key instruments for implementing the PARPA, the Bank is committed to supporting and 
aligning with the budget process. The indicative le
nding scenario of the CPS envisages programmatic 
support through consecutive PRSCs, with a focus on supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing 
accountability and public voice and fo
stering sustainable and broad-ba
sed growth. In line with the 
Government program, and as reflected in the CPS, 
the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes 
the centrality of the growth agenda and the impor
tance of enhanced public
 financial management 
reforms.  The PRSC series is also well aligned 
with the Bank’s principles on policy-based support, 
namely (i) reinforce ownership; (ii) strengthen 
harmonization; (iii) custom
ize program to country 
circumstances; (iv) select only critic
al actions; and (v) ensure transparen
cy and predictability of process. 
 
2.
 
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (P
RSC-6) is the first opera
tion in a new series of 
three annual operations designed to
 assist the Government of Mo
zambique (GoM) to implement key 
policy actions outlined in its Second Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (known as 
PARPA II by its Portuguese acronym
) and in the Performance Asse
ssment Framework agreed by the 
Government and the 19 external partners that prov
ide general budget support (G
BS) to GoM.  PARPA II 
is mainly focused on shared growth and on the need fo
r decentralization. Within th
is context, PRSC-6 is 
expected to help the GoM in: (a) th
e consolidation and deepening of th
e institutional reforms in the area 
of macroeconomic management; and (b) economic 
development by removing constraints to growth, 
notably by simplifying the regulatory environment,
 improving access to credit, and promoting more 
efficient land use. 
 
3.
 
Preliminary description 
 
The proposed Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (P
RSC-6) is the first in 
a new PRSC series of 
three annual single-tranche operations to be deliver
ed over FY10-12.  The PRSC-6 operation will also 
provide a proposal of the triggers
 for the subsequent 
two operations in the new PRSC series. 
 
The new PRSC series will be fully harmonized within the joint donor (G19) mechanism for the 
provision of general budget support. 
 As such the proposed prior actions and triggers for this PRSC 
series will be drawn from the jo
int Performance Assessment Framework 
(PAF), which itself is a subset 
of the strategic matrix of PARPA II.  IDA’s focus is 
geared at specific areas, which are a subset of the 
PAF.  This is an important feature of the proposed 
operations as, by relying on the PAF, the PRSC series 
Page  3
will remain consistent with the Government’s own m
onitoring framework and will also be in line with 
donor harmonization for general budget support.   
The PRSC series supports a strate
gic subset of objectives from th
e PARPA II results matrix.  As 
intermediate outcomes the PRSC series supports improvements in: 
(1) Macroeconomic management: Consolidate and de
epen institutional reforms to strengthen public 
financial management system.   
(2) Economic development: Improve the business en
vironment, by removing constraints to growth, 
including by simplifying the regu
latory environment, improving th
e information basis for access 
to credit, and promoting mo
re efficient land use.  
 
The PRSC-6 supports specific ongoing reforms which 
are part of the above program.  The PRSC-6 
supports reforms to improve macroeconomic mana
gement by aligning the budget with economic policy 
priorities expressed in the PARPA and the Medi
um Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), expanding 
the use of direct budget executi
on through the e-SISTAFE, continui
ng the implementation of the new 
State procurement system, increasing the coverage 
and efficiency of external audit bodies, and 
improving the human resources management in the pub
lic sector (through refo
rms of the wage policy 
and pensions system).  In terms of economic de
velopment, the PRSC-6 supports the Government’s 
efforts to improve the operation of the financial s
ector, in order to expand access to credit for private 
sector firms, strengthen the management of the pub
lic pensions system, reform land taxation to promote 
a more efficient use of land, and 
accelerate the pace of reforms to 
improve the business environment, 
notably by simplifying the burden of ex
cessive regulations and licenses.  
 
The triggers (and prior actions) have 
been selected based on their critic
ality for contributing to achieving 
the  PARPA-II objectives.  The criteria reflect the 
following two broad principles
: (i) The trigger entails 
a policy or institutional reform which is critical 
to remove a key constraint to poverty reduction and 
growth (based on the findings of ex
isting analytical work), or is an 
implementation activity of a reform 
initiated earlier; (ii) The trigger is part of 
the Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), and the 
assessment can be done easily, e.g. verifying whethe
r a law or some regulation has been approved.  
 
The program supported by this PRSC series has been in
formed by a series of analytical and diagnostic 
studies, which provide a sound basi
s for the reforms. The reform program in Public Financial 
Management (PFM) builds on the PEFA 2006 and PEFA
 2008 reports, as well as
 the findings of the 
IMF technical assistance missions on progress wi
th PFM reforms in January 2008 and March 2009 (with 
participation by the Bank), a G19 PFM Quality Assurance Group mission in March 2009, and a Country 
Procurement Assessment Review in 2008.  The reform
s to accelerate Economic Development have been 
informed by the 2005 Country Economic Memora
ndum (CEM) and the new 2009 CEM which focuses 
on reshaping growth and creating jobs through trade and regional in
tegration, as well as the 2009 
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA), and the 2009 Fi
nancial Sector Assessment (FSA) report.  The 
policies and reforms supported by th
e PRSC focus on the challenges 
to sustained growth and poverty 
reduction in Mozambique which have been identified in the studies. 
 
4.
 
Environment Aspects 
 
Environmental impacts of policies su
pported by the PRSC-6 are expected to
 be minimal. It is envisaged 
that the PRSC series supports policy actions that
 should create the enabling environment to support 
poverty reduction, and by themselves do not have a si
gnificant environmental im
pact.  However, it is 
expected that regular investment activities will
 benefit from such po
licy actions.  Potential 
environmental impacts of such interventions are anal
yzed and monitored by th
e responsible authority.  
 
5.
 
Tentative financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0 
Page  4
International Development Association (IDA) 
110 
 Total 
110 
 
6.
 
Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: +258 21482371 
Fax:  +258 21492893 
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
