Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5051 
Operation Name 
Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC6) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (40%);General finance sector 
(20%);General industry and trade sector (20%);General public 
administration sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P117234 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
September 12, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 10, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 12, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Mozambique has been a very strong performer in Africa, with rapid growth and poverty 
reduction, as it recovers steadily from the damage of the civil war concluded in 1992.  Looking 
back at the last fifteen years, the growth record has been remarkable, averaging above 8 percent 
from 1993 to 2008, making Mozambique the fastest growing non-oil economy in Sub-Saharan 
Africa.  Rapid economic growth has been accompanied by significant strides in reducing 
poverty. Household survey data indicate that the national poverty headcount fell from 69 to 54 
percent during 1997 to 2003.  The next household survey due in 2009 will show whether poverty 
has continued falling. In addition, other social indicators have also shown significant 
improvements since the mid-1990s. Net enrollment rate at primary education doubled from 45 
percent in 1998 to over 96 percent in 2008. Net enrollment of girls rose from 40 percent to 93 
percent in the same period. The gross enrolment rate in lower secondary education (ES1) 
increased from 4.8 percent in 1998 to 28 percent in 2008.  Under-5 mortality rates decreased 
from 212 per 1,000 live births in 1996, to 178 in 2003, and reached 138 in 2008. Infant mortality 
decreased from 145 per 1,000 live births in 1996, to 122 in 2003, and further down to 93 in 2008. 
Maternal mortality was reduced from an estimated 1,000 per 100,000 live births in the early 
1990s to 408 per 100,000 live births in 2003, and to 340 in 2007. The share of the population 
with access to an improved water source increased from 39 percent in 1995 to 48 percent in 
2008.  The capacity of the health system was expanded to start providing free ARV treatment for 
HIV infection.  
Despite the promising progress, significant challenges remain. The country remains poor 
(USD454 per capita income in 2008), social indicators are low, infrastructure is inadequate, and 
the business environment remains unfriendly. Adult literacy rates are low (approximately 47 
percent), and life expectancy at birth remains very low (42 years).  Despite economic growth, 
malnutrition has worsened in Mozambique from 2003 to 2008 with the percentage of chronically 
malnourished children (stunted) increasing from 44 percent to 48 percent. The country also relies 
heavily on foreign aid, which makes up about half of its overall budget.  Additionally, the impact 
of HIV/AIDS and malaria on the population has serious consequences.  Malaria alone accounts 
for 35 percent of deaths among children below five years of age, 60 percent of admissions in 
Page  2
pediatric wards, and 40 percent of overall outpatient consultations.  It has been found that in Sub-
Saharan Africa, malaria reduces GDP growth by an estimated average of 1.3 percent per year.  
As for HIV/AIDS, current projections indicate that in 2010 the Mozambican economy will be 
14-20 percent smaller than it would otherwise be due to the impact of HIV/AIDS.  
Mozambique is likely to achieve the poverty Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
Assuming that the current trend continues, Mozambique is expected to halve the population 
living in absolute poverty by 2015.  As mentioned, reducing hunger and child malnutrition 
remains a challenge.  The MDG for sustainable coverage for water supply could also be met, 
given the rapid improvements in the provision of urban water supply, although significant 
progress is needed to increase access to water in rural areas.  There has also been substantial 
progress toward other MDG targets, specifically on improving universal primary education, 
gender 
equality and women’s empowerment, reducing child mortality, and improving maternal 
health.  Nevertheless, more progress will be required to meet these MDGs. Also, combating 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases remains a serious challenge, and this MDG is not likely to 
be met.   
Constraints to private sector development and trade remain substantial, and more progress is 
required to improve the business environment.  Mozambique’s ranking in the 2010 Ease of 
Doing Business was 135
th
 out of 183 countries, reflecting the numerous challenges facing the 
private sector in Mozambique.  Mozambique is ranked 110
th
 out of 150 countries on the 2007 
Trade Logistics Performance Index.  Its weakest indicators are quality of transport and IT 
infrastructures.   Mozambique is 126
th
 (out of 180) on the 2008 Transparency International 
Corruption Perceptions Index (and 25
th
 out of 47
 
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa).  In the 2009 
Worldwide Governance Indicators Mozambique surpasses the SSA and low income group 
averages on all six aspects of the index (voice and accountability, political stability, government 
effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and control of corruption).  In spite of the 
significant progress, the country’s secondary school (28 percent in 2008) and tertiary (1.1 
percent in 2008) grow enrollment rates are only a fraction of the comparators’ countries. 
Progress in public sector governance has been mixed.  Significant progress has been made in 
improving transparency and accountability by strengthening Public Financial Management 
systems, including in procurement and in internal and external audit. Also there has been 
progress towards improving the management of natural resources, notably by strengthening the 
legal framework regulating the fiscal regimes for mining and petroleum in 2007.  In addition, in 
May 2009 Mozambique was accepted as a candidate to the Extractive Industry Transparency 
Initiative (EITI).  Progress however remains limited in the Justice Sector and in Anti-Corruption, 
such that improvements in the efficiency and transparency of the justice system remain elusive, 
and corruption and conflict-of-interest remain central issues. Also, despite some recent progress, 
implementation of the public sector reforms program remains slow. 
While the medium-term macroeconomic outlook remains positive, it has been clouded 
substantially as a result of the financial crisis.  Mozambique has so far not been seriously 
affected by the global financial crisis. The dramatic drop in the price of aluminum (which 
accounts for 70 percent of Mozambique’s exports) is expected to be mitigated by lower dividend 
payments by megaprojects. Similarly, while the financial crisis will negatively affect the level of 
foreign direct investment, the impact is expected to be mitigated by the start of the construction 
of two large coal mines in the Tete region.  Nevertheless, the severe impact of the economic 
crisis on the South African economy is expected to negatively impact the Mozambican economy.  
Page  3
The Mozambique Economic Climate Index decreased for the fourth consecutive month in March 
2009, reflecting a steady drop in business confidence. Following discussions with the IMF in 
April 2009, therefore, the government agreed to take a prudent approach and anticipate 
significant reductions in exports, foreign direct investment, and aid flows (which finance over 50 
percent of the budget).  Hence the IMF’s projected GDP growth has been revised down to 4.3 
percent for 2009, which is 3.5 percentage points below the average for the past five years.   
On the fiscal side, the financial crisis is projected to result in lower domestic revenues leading to 
a
significant fiscal gap. The government has projected a decline in total tax revenues of around 
USD140 million in 2009 (approximately 1.5 percent of GDP), mainly from lower VAT receipts, 
lower corporate income tax, lower receipts from megaprojects and the traditional export sector, 
and lower fuel taxes (Table 5).  Budget support receipts in local currency are also expected to be 
lower by approximately USD79 million (0.8 percent of GDP) compared with previous 
projections used for the 2009 budget, due to changes in exchange rates.  In addition, some 
expenditure lines denominated in US dollars are expected to increase, notably those related to 
embassies, external debt service, and external travel, amounting to an extra USD19 million (0.2 
percent of GDP).  In total, the projected fiscal gap amounts to approx USD238 million (2.5 
percent of GDP).   
The government has taken steps to mitigate the impact of the crisis, but faces difficult trade-offs. 
In early March 2009, the government formed an inter-agency financial crisis task force at the 
ministerial level, which meets every fortnight.  In April the Bank presented to the task force key 
leading indicators on the global recession, discussing how the task force could better monitor and 
mitigate the impact on Mozambique. To mitigate the negative BoP impact of the crisis and 
maintain a high level of reserves, the government requested access to 100 percent of its quota at 
the IMF (approximately equivalent to USD170 million) in additional forex reserves under the 
IMF’s Exogenous Shock Facility (ESF), and this request was approved by the IMF Board in June 
2009.  In order to reduce the fiscal gap, the government is planning to rationalize expenditures to 
generate savings of around USD108 million (1.2 percent of GDP; Table 5).  This would be 
achieved by withholding up to 10 percent of funding allocations to the Ministries’ recurrent 
expenditures in selected programs and the domestically financed investment expenditures (while 
protecting payroll expenditures and recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors and programs of 
the PARPA II), bringing expected savings of USD62 million (0.7 percent of GDP). In addition, 
the government has approved measures to rationalize internal and external travel (reducing size 
of delegations, and class of air travel), which is expected to bring additional savings of USD46 
million (0.5 percent of GDP).  The government is also expecting to benefit from additional 
budget support from the European Commission (EC), amounting to USD18 million (0.2 percent 
of GDP). The balance of the fiscal gap, after accounting for these expenditure cuts and the 
additional EC budget support, is projected to be approx USD112 million (1.2 percent of GDP).  
In light of the unforeseen financial need, the Bank has agreed to consider: (i) increasing the size 
of budget support provided through this PRSC from USD85 million to USD110 million; and (ii) 
accelerating its preparation to disburse the funds in 2009.  
The medium-term outlook is characterized by substantial uncertainty, with the impact of the 
crisis in Mozambique is expected to continue in 2010 and 2011.  In addition to the uncertain 
outturn of the financial crisis, risks remain related to natural calamities, a renewed surge in 
international oil and food prices, and spending pressure during election times.  Given the high 
level of uncertainty for 2009, it is difficult to make any projections for 2010 and 2011.  For the 
Page  4
time being, the government and the IMF have assumed a slight acceleration of GDP growth to 5 
percent in 2010 and 6 percent in 2011, somewhat below the average growth of the past five 
years.  The leading sector would be agriculture, followed by wholesale and retail trade, and also 
transport and communications, and construction. They have also assumed an additional reduction 
in forex reserves and the need for additional domestic financing in 2010.  The BoP and fiscal 
accounts are assumed to improve only in 2011.  
The financial crisis has reemphasized the need to refocus efforts towards increasing the 
efficiency in the use of public finances and taking action to increase private investments and 
boost economic growth.  The Government of Mozambique has been consistently pursuing sound 
fiscal, monetary, and external policies, demonstrating a clear understanding of the benefits of a 
solid underlying macroeconomic framework. The Government has also been implementing an 
active program of structural reforms.  There is an enormous momentum for continuing the 
reforms program and striving to reach even higher growth rates.  
Businesses’ interest to expand 
and initiate operations in Mozambique is palpable. However, the financial crisis has clouded the 
economic outlook. The anticipated reduction in tax revenues and foreign direct investment is 
expected to result in a severe drop in economic growth in 2009 and beyond.  In this context it 
becomes critical for government to address these challenges by accelerating its efforts to 
maximize efficiency in the management of public resources, through improvements in PFM 
system, and accelerating the implementation of growth-enhancing reforms to increase private 
investment.  Further PFM reforms are essential to improve service delivery and create, through 
efficiency savings, the fiscal space needed to expand services and increase public investments.  
In addition, Mozambique needs to implement growth-enhancing reforms and challenging 
institutional reforms to exploit all possible economic growth opportunities. As articulated in the 
2009 CEM, Mozambique has a vast, diversified economic potential, including in mining, energy, 
agribusiness, fishing, forestry, tourism, light manufacturing and services serving as a gateway to 
neighboring countries.  However, a long list of constraints prevents a more dynamic business 
growth and employment creation.  The challenge for Mozambique is how to sustain high growth 
and reshape its pattern to generate more employment by exploiting all these export opportunities.  
These challenges, which have been articulated in the PARPA-II, and are expected to constitute 
priority areas in the program of the next government, are the focus of this new PRSC series.  The 
likely growth scenarios for the future – and the corresponding poverty scenarios – will heavily 
depend on the Government’s role in removing constraints to continued growth, as well as its role 
in seizing new opportunities for growth.  Only rapid progress in certain key reforms, can keep 
the growth rate as high as 7 or 8 percent in the medium term, and continue the rapid rate poverty 
reduction of the past decade.  It is critical therefore that the Government pursues a reform 
program to resolve the key challenges to growth and poverty reduction.  In this context, this new 
PRSC series will support the Government in: (a) the consolidation and deepening of the 
institutional reforms in the area of macroeconomic management, with a focus on PFM reforms; 
and (b) economic development by removing constraints to growth, notably by simplifying the 
regulatory environment, improving access to credit, and promoting more efficient land use. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-6) is the first operation in a new 
series of three annual operations supporting the implementation of the PARPA II.  The PRSC 
Page  5
series supports a strategic subset of objectives from the PARPA II results matrix. As 
intermediate outcomes the PRSC series supports improvements in: 
(1) Macroeconomic management: Consolidate and deepen institutional reforms to improve 
the use of public resources through better budget formulation, stronger public financial 
management (PFM) systems, and oversight.   
(2) Economic development: Continue to support broad-based growth by reducing the 
excessive regulation constraining business activities, improving the information basis for 
access to credit, and promoting more efficient land use and better access to land.  
The PRSC-6 supports specific ongoing reforms which are part of the above program.  The 
PRSC-6 supports reforms to improve macroeconomic management by aligning the budget with 
economic policy priorities expressed in the PARPA and the Medium Term Expenditure 
Framework (MTEF), expanding the use of direct budget execution through the e-SISTAFE, 
continuing the implementation of the new State procurement system, increasing the coverage and 
efficiency of external audit bodies, and improving the human resources management in the 
public sector (through reforms of the wage policy and pensions system).  In terms of economic 
development, the PRSC-
6
supports the Government’s efforts to improve the operation of the 
financial sector, in order to expand access to credit for private sector firms, strengthen the 
management of the public pensions system, reform land taxation to promote a more efficient use 
of land, and accelerate the pace of reforms to improve the business environment, notably by 
simplifying the burden of excessive regulations and licenses. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board 
in May 2007, and closely aligned to the Government program.  Bank support to the PARPA II is 
through the Mozambique FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, discussed May 30, 
2007).
1
As government policies and budget are the key instruments for implementing the 
PARPA, the Bank is committed to supporting and aligning with the budget process. The 
indicative lending scenario of the CPS envisages programmatic support through four consecutive 
PRSCs, with a focus on supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing accountability and public 
voice and fostering sustainable and broad-based growth. In line with the government program, 
and as reflected in the CPS, the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes the centrality 
of the new growth agenda and the importance of accelerating shared growth through 
infrastructure, rural and private sector development, and enhanced governance reforms.  The 
PRSC series is also well aligned with the Bank’s principles on conditionality, namely (i) 
reinforce ownership; (ii) strengthen harmonization; (iii) customize program to country 
circumstances; (iv) select only critical actions; and (v) ensure transparency and predictability of 
process.   
Development policy lending will be complemented by investment support and technical 
assistance.  PRSC support will continue to coexist with investment support to well-articulated 
sector programs, and with technical assistance to develop government systems and capacities 
necessary for an increased reliance on them. IDA’s investment portfolio, with 18 projects, is 
diverse and supports the three pillars of the CPS.  As of June 2009, total IDA commitments were 
1
Mozambique FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy, Report No. 39395-MZ, April 24, 2007. 
Page  6
USD881 million.  The share of policy-based lending in overall IDA disbursements in FY04-07 
was below 40 percent, and is projected to stay at around 40 percent of annual commitments 
during the CPS FY08-11.  The PRSC series supports PFM and public sector reforms and 
embraces the new growth agenda, and these objectives are also supported by several IDA 
projects, thereby creating strong synergies. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
110 
 Total 
110 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The new PRSC series is fully aligned with the harmonized system for the provision of the joint 
General Budget Support program of the G19 (for details see website: 
http://www.pap.org.mz/
). 
In order to reduce the transaction costs for the Government, the Bank carries out all supervision 
jointly with the other donors. It participates in the Troika Plus (consisting of three donors/a 
chair/co-chair and outgoing chair, forming the troika chairmanship 
–
EC and WB are permanent 
members, thus forming the Troika Plus), the overall coordination mechanism set up by the G-19, 
and all the relevant coordination meetings. All Bank sector missions working for the PRSC team 
liaise closely with and through the respective joint sector working groups to assure maximum 
coordination with all other sector partners. 
The MoU defines two key review events per year. A Joint Review takes place each year in April 
(year n). It assesses the performance of the government in the previous budget year, which 
corresponds to the calendar year (year n-1).  The review focuses on evaluating progress with 
regard to the indicators defined in the PAF and makes an overall assessment of progress, 
resulting in disbursement commitments for the following year (year n+1). The second event is 
the ‘Planning Meetings’ in September. This review is forward-looking and formalizes the 
agreement on the performance indicators and targets for the following year (year n+1). 
Programmatic lending will be complemented by investment support. PRSC support will coexist 
with investment support to well-articulated sector programs, and with technical assistance to 
develop government systems and capacities necessary for an increased reliance on them. 
In addition, the supervision of the PRSC is done on a continuous basis in harmonization with the 
other general budget support donors, through the monthly joint government-donor steering 
committee meetings.  Progress in each sector is monitored by joint government-donor sector 
working groups.  Bank staff actively participates in these meetings through its staff in the field 
offices and Washington (through missions or by videoconference). The Task Team Leader for 
the operation is based in the field. Furthermore, the Bank participates in joint IMF-Bank 
missions to monitor progress in the macroeconomic framework. The Bank and the Fund also 
monitor jointly progress in implementing the PARPA-II.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
Page  7
Benefits:
 The operation will help the GoM to maintain macroeconomic stability while it 
continues to pursue a reform agenda that cannot be fully financed from domestic sources. The 
reforms should enable Mozambique to make further progress in reducing absolute poverty, 
improving the delivery of services and achieving the MDGs. The alignment with the general 
budget support programs of 18 other donors and a joint focus on the priorities set out by the 
GoM in its comprehensive poverty reduction strategy, and on a common set of indicators to 
measure progress, should help improve the resource flow and improve aid effectiveness, thereby 
enhancing the chances of progress towards the MDGs.  
 
Risks:
 A
first set of risks is concerned with the potential for macroeconomic instability, due to 
the financial crisis, and the upcoming political elections in 2009.  The impact of the financial 
crisis on the Balance of Payments (BoP) and the fiscal accounts remains uncertain.  Should the 
crisis deteriorate, the possibility exists that the impact will be more severe than currently 
anticipated.  In this respect the Bank is proposing to increase the level of budget support to 
contribute to close the BoP and fiscal gap created by the crisis.  The additional support would 
assist the government maintain the planned level of budgeted expenditures, without having to 
resort to large domestic borrowing. An additional set of risks arises from the Parliamentary and 
Presidential elections which are scheduled in late 2009.  Approaching the elections, the 
government will need to resist pressures for additional spending that are not sustainable, and 
prevent a reduction in the level of revenues collection (as happened in the previous 2004 
elections).  Also there is a danger that, in the context of rising fuel prices, the Government will 
feel pressured to intervene to control the fuel prices, incurring substantial fiscal costs (or 
liabilities towards the oil companies).  The Bank team will continue to monitor the 
macroeconomic policy framework and its adequacy for the provision of budget support.  In 
addition, to mitigate the risks of fiscal slippage due to political pressure in the run-up to the 2009 
elections, the PRSC program (and the PAF), supports the efforts by the government to strengthen 
PFM systems (including the revenue collection systems), which increase transparency and 
redu
ce the country’s vulnerability to fiscal slippage.   
A
second set of risks concerns a possible slowdown in implementing the reforms program in the 
context of the upcoming elections, especially in light of the weak administrative capacity.  The 
transition period might imply a slowdown of the pace of reforms, particularly in land taxation 
and business environment.  In order to mitigate this risk, the Bank team will increase its 
engagement at the technical level by facilitating the preparation of the technical underpinnings 
required to implement the reforms.  
A
third set of risks concerns a deterioration in governance that could compromise economic 
reforms and poverty reduction efforts.  Progress in public sector governance has been mixed.  
Significant progress has been made in thereby improving transparency and accountability by 
strengthening Public Financial Management systems, including in procurement and in internal 
and external audit. Also there has been progress towards improving the management of natural 
resources, notably by strengthening the legal framework regulating the fiscal regimes for mining 
and petroleum in 2007, and in May 2009 the government has been accepted as a candidate 
country to the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI).  The Joint Review in April 
2009, however, noted the need to accelerate reforms in the legal and judiciary fronts, including in 
implementing the anti-corruption strategy and introducing (and enforcing) legislation to 
eliminate conflict of interest for public officials. Questions are also related to the capacity for 
Page  8
selection, negotiation and monitoring of the projects and investments, in order to explore the 
opportunities of the country’s natural resources (minerals, petroleum, hydropower, forestry, 
agriculture, among others). For instance, the government is in the process of negotiating three 
power mega-projects (coal, gas and hydro) with combinations of foreign firms and local partners, 
and it is important to ensure the maximization of the benefits for the communities and 
advantages for the country. A deterioration in governance could have negative effects on 
economic growth and compromise poverty reduction. To mitigate this risk, IDA is increasing its 
activities in the areas of Governance.  Strengthening voice and accountability is one of the three 
pillars of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board in May 2007.  IDA 
already holds an active policy dialogue with the authorities on the subject and closely monitors 
developments associated with governance.  At the request of the government, the Bank, IMF, 
DFID and Norway fielded a technical assistance mission in 2008 on how to maximize the 
benefits from mega-projects, including those related to the exploitation of natural resources. In 
addition, the restructured Public Sector Reform Project has a new legal sector capacity building 
component. Also, as part of the activities supported by the CommGAP Trust Fund in 
Mozambique, IDA is working to enhance citizen’s voice, strengthen the media, and modernize 
the government’s communication functions. Last but not least, IDA is working with government 
to carry out a program of beneficiary surveys to increase public involvement in the monitoring of 
service delivery. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The legal framework for the environment is relatively well developed in Mozambique, but 
capacity to implement and enforce it remains limited. The framework for environmental 
management in Mozambique is defined by the Law of the Environment (Law n° 20/97), which 
applies to all public and private activities that may influence environmental aspects. All activities 
that may result in a significant impact on the environment are subject to an Environmental 
Impact Assessment, which has to precede any issuing of licenses and investment activity. The 
Ministry for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) is the main entity responsible 
for conducting Environmental Impact Assessments.  The capacity of MICOA, however, is 
limited due to financial and technical capacity constraints. 
The Bank team is working to assess the capacity of the Government to carry out Environmental 
Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA). Starting in FY09 the 
Bank team has started a Technical Assistance activity to help the government to develop and 
implement appropriate policies in the areas of natural resources, environment and adaptation to 
climate change.  In this context, the Bank is financing a stocktaking of mega-projects that will 
map forthcoming investments and policy reforms with potential negative environmental impact, 
propose a typology of possible environmental issues linked to these investments and related 
policy reforms.  The stocktaking will also identify the future needs for Mozambique in terms of 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), the 
two tools that are needed to put in place mitigation measures to address potential adverse 
environmental impact related to physical investment or policy reforms in a given sector.  The 
activity is closely coordinated with MICOA and the G19 partners, in the context of the five joint 
environment working group. 
The reforms supported in this PRSC series are not expected to have significant positive or 
negative environmental effects.  The PRSC series supports policy actions that create the enabling 
Page  9
environment to support poverty reduction, and which by themselves do not have an 
environmental impact.  It is expected, however, that regular private and public investment 
activities which may result from such policy actions, could have stronger impacts on the 
environment.  For instance increased land taxation is expected to promote more intensive use of 
the land currently lying idle.  Environmental aspects of the reform of land taxation will have to 
be considered during the preparation of the reform. Nevertheless, it is not expected that there will 
be need to introduce special measures since all activities to be carried out on the land are subject 
to the Mozambican legal framework for the protection of the environment, and as discussed 
above the Bank is working to help the Government to develop and implement appropriate 
policies in the areas of natural resources, environment and adaptation to climate change.  This 
also includes the potential effects from increasing exports 
–
which may include mining, energy 
and forestry.  Increasing exports of any of these sectors could have a large impact on the 
environment and forestry.  As mentioned above, the Mozambican legislation requires that such 
impacts would have to be identified as part of the preparation of the individual business projects, 
and evidence provided on how the developer proposes to manage these impacts.  In this context 
it is worth noting that the regulatory simplification envisaged under PRSC-8 will be carried out 
with the involvement of MICOA and the Ministry of Health, in order to preserve the 
Government’s regulatory capacity in environmental and health safety issues.   
Beyond the need to ensure that the environmental impacts of reform supported by the PRSC is 
mitigated, the sustainable use of Mozambique's natural resources (land, mining, fisheries, 
forestry, water) represents a great opportunity for poverty reduction as well as social and 
economic development, and needs to be strengthened.  As outlined in the 2005 CEM, public 
revenues from natural resource rents could be increased from USD31 million to USD82 million 
per year under current economic conditions, mostly by improving transparency and fairness in 
the issuing of licenses, quotas and concessions and in the collection and use of revenue. 
Sustainable exploitation of natural resources by communities and individuals should be 
promoted to contribute directly to poverty reduction and livelihood security.  Investments in 
extractive and exploitative industries can promote further growth and economic activity through 
providing markets for local goods and services as well as inputs for processing industries.  
Licensing and taxation of natural resource use can provide significant revenue for government, 
which in turn, can support funding development and poverty reduction programs, especially 
where (local and global) market demand and prices allow significant margins.  However 
managing these resources is complex.  While GOM legislation and policies recognize and seek 
to facilitate the role of different models of resource use for poverty reduction and development, 
little attention has been given to the specific mechanisms for: (i) access, (ii) promoting efficient 
use and (iii) monitoring and compliance with existing norms. This has led to a situation where 
regulations appear to have produced unnecessarily complex procedures that create opportunities 
for rent seeking and corruption, harming both the poor and private commercial interests. Over 
the next few years IDA, in collaboration with the IMF and other development partners, will work 
closely with government to maximize the benefits from the sustainable exploitation of natural 
resource.  An important step to enhance the revenue collection efforts was the approval by the 
parliament in December 2006 of the new laws on the fiscal regimes for the mining and oil 
sectors, which have become effective in mid-2007. 
The poverty and social impacts of the policies supported by the PRSC series are expected to be 
positive. Analysis carried out on the impacts of growth on poverty reduction in Mozambique, has 
shown positive links, which has so far not been accompanied by significant increases in 
Page  10
inequality.  The poverty reduction impact of the policies supported by the series is expected to be 
significant, increasing the likelihood that Mozambique will reach the first Millennium 
Development Goal. The specific country policies supported by the PRSC series are not expected 
to have significant distributional and social impacts, except possibly positive ones arising from 
the increased effectiveness of the land tax administration system (as the land tax system would 
be designed to be progressive). 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5333+2371 / 258-21-482-371 
Fax:  
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
