Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4318-PAK 
 
Program Agreement 
 
(First Sindh Education Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
PROVINCE OF SINDH 
 
Dated June 7, 2007  
 
Page  2
PROGRAM AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 7
,
2007
(“Program Agreement”), entered into between 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and the 
PROVINCE OF SINDH (“Sindh”), acting through the Governor of Sindh, in connection 
with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (“Recipient) and the Association.  The 
Association and Sindh hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROGRAM
 
2.01. 
Sindh declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program and its 
implementation.  To this end:  
 
(a) 
Sindh, the Recipient and the Association shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out of the Program, subject to adequate notice;  
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, Sindh shall furnish the Recipient 
and the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Recipient and 
the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provision of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) 
above the Sindh shall exchange views with the Recipient and the 
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of 
the Financing which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Sindh’s Representative is Sindh’s Secretary of Finance. 
 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Sindh’s Address is: 
 
Finance Department  
 
Province of Sindh 
 
Karachi, Pakistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-21-920-6511 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
 
PROVINCE OF SINDH 
 
By /s/ Abdul Wajid Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 
 
Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Public Expenditure Effectiveness
1. 
Sindh has approved a Medium Term Fiscal Framework for Fiscal Years 
2007/2008 through 2009/2010, which provides for: (i) at least 13.5% annual 
increase of Sindh’s own-source revenues; (ii) a less than 5% yearly increase in 
Sindh’s interest and subsidy expenditures; and (iii) a 15% annual increase in 
PRSP Expenditures. 
 
2. 
Sindh has: (A) approved an education Medium Term Sector Policy Framework 
and the respective Medium Term Financial Plan for Fiscal Years 2006/2007 
through 2009/2010, which provide for: (i) a 30% annual increase in nominal term 
budgetary allocations for non-wage recurrent expenditures, and (ii) a progressive 
increase in education expenditures to reach the equivalent of 1.5% of Sindh’s 
gross domestic product by Fiscal Year 2009/2010; and (B) approved the 
provincial budget for Fiscal Year 2006/2007 in alignment with its Medium Term 
Sector Policy Framework, providing for an increase in consolidated education 
expenditures of over 26%. 
 
3. 
Sindh’s Chief Secretary has issued an Executive Order requiring regular DAC 
meetings in order to review and settle all audit observations on the accounts of 
Sindh’s agencies and departments at both provincial and district levels, to 
progressively clear their backlogs.   
 
Improving Education Sector Management
4. 
Sindh has established a fully functional Reform Support Unit, as an integral part 
of the Education and Literacy Department, responsible for education policy 
formulation, monitoring and evaluation, and donor coordination.  
 
5. 
Sindh has carried out a revamped school census in order to establish baselines for 
key performance and input indicators at provincial and district level.  
 
6. 
Sindh has: (A) entered into Terms of Partnership Agreements with at least twelve 
(12) District Governments, setting out agreed responsibilities in education service 
delivery and performance indicators, as well as their baselines and annual goals; 
and (B) released conditional fund transfers to signatory District Governments 
through Districts’ Account No. IV.  
 
Page  5
4
Improving Access to Quality Schooling
7. 
Sindh has: (A) delivered free textbooks to at least 80% of the students in grades 1 
to 10 within one month of the start of the school year; (B) provided stipends to at 
least 80% of girls enrolled in middle and high schools (grades 6 to 10); and (C) 
launched independent third party validation studies on the availability of the 
above incentive mechanisms at school level.   
 
Improving the Quality of Teaching and Learning
8. 
Sindh has formulated and notified transparent merit-based criteria for the 
recruitment of teachers under school-specific non-transferable contracts, based,
 
inter alia
,
on scores on tests administered by a third party and the candidate’s 
academic qualifications, gender and domicile.    
 
