Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4318-PAK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(First Sindh Education Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 7, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4318-PAK 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 7, 2007, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient, 
through the PROVINCE OF SINDH (“Sindh”), has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in the Schedule to the Program Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s 
and Sindh’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The 
Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixty five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 65,600,000).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-2- 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish, or 
cause Sindh to furnish, to the Association for its review and comment a 
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange, or cause Sindh to exchange, views 
with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the Recipient’s Economic 
Affairs Division, acting indistinctly. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Phone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
Page  4
-3- 
92-51-9203815  
 
92-51-9218976 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Wajid Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  5
-4- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
A.
 General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and such additional instructions 
as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B.
 Onlending. 
The recipient shall make the Rupees equivalent of the proceeds of 
the Credit available to Sindh in accordance with the Recipient’s on-lending 
policy, acceptable to the Association. 
 
C. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.   
 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association;  
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for, 
within two working days, in the Sindh’s Consolidated Fund Account  
No. 1- Non Food, in a manner acceptable to the Association; and 
 
3. 
within 45 days after each deposit of an amount of the Credit into the 
Recipient’s designated account, the Recipient shall cause Sindh to 
provide to the Bank a written confirmation by Sindh’s Finance Secretary, 
certifying the crediting of the Rupees equivalent of each such deposit 
into the Sindh’s Consolidated Fund Account No. 1 – Non Foods; such 
written certification to include number of the accounts, date of receipt of 
funds, and the credited amounts and exchange rate applied.   
 
E.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  6
-5- 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On March 15 and September 15 of each year: 
 
commencing September 15, 2017 to  
and including March 15, 2027 
 
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2027 to and including 
March 15, 2042 
 
2.5% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-6- 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“DAC” means the Departmental Accounts Committee of the Education 
Department. 
 
2. 
“District’s Account No. IV” means the Account No. IV established within the 
District Government for the governmental transfer of fund/budgetary allocations 
to the District Governments. 
 
3. 
“District Governments” means, collectively, all district governments as defined 
in the Sindh’s Local Government Ordinance (Ordinance 2001), as amended from 
time to time.  
 
4. 
“Education and Literacy Department” means Sindh’s Education and Literacy 
Department.  
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Page  8
-7- 
 
Group
Sub-group
 
Description of Item
 
112
 
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse
 
122
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes)
 
525
 
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked
 
718 
 
718.7
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
 
728
 
728.43 
 
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897 
 
897.3
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems)
 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates)
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
6. 
“Executive Order” means, collectively, the Directives No. SO. (IMP)/SGA 
&CD/10-441-2/06 and No. SO (IMP)/SGA&CD/154-1(DAC)/06, dated 
November 14, 2006 and February 19, 2007 respectively, issued by the Chief 
Secretary of Sindh. 
Page  9
-8- 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient and of Sindh, beginning on 
July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the next calendar year.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Medium Term Financial Plan” means the financial plan approved by the Chief 
Minister of Sindh, pursuant to Summary No. 108, dated April 30, 2007, as it may 
be amended from time to time.   
 
10. 
“Medium Term Fiscal Framework” means the fiscal framework approved by the 
Chief Minister of Sindh, pursuant to Summary No. 108, dated April 30, 2007, as 
it may be amended from time to time.  
 
11. 
“Medium Term Sector Policy Framework” means the sector policy documents 
approved by the Chief Minister of Sindh, pursuant to Summary No. 108, dated 
April 30, 2007, as it may be amended from time to time.  
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated from the Recipient dated May 4, 2007, transmitting 
to the Association a letter from Sindh dated April 27, 2007 from the Recipient to 
the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
13. 
“PRSP Expenditures” means the expenditures contemplated in the Recipient’s 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, dated December 13, 2003.  
 
14. 
“Reform Support Unit” means the unit established within the Education 
Department, pursuant to Notifications No. SO (C-I)/SGA&CD/4-34/2005 dated 
January 5/6, 2006 and Order, issued by the Chief Secretary of Sindh, and Order 
No. SO (B&F)/EDU/SNE/RSU/05-06, issued by the Secretary of Education and 
Literacy of Sindh, which unit shall be responsible for the overall coordination, 
monitoring and facilitation of the Program. 
 
15. 
“Rupees” means the currency of the Recipient. 
 
16. 
“Sindh” means the Province of Sindh.   
 
17. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part C of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
18. 
“Terms of Partnership Agreements” means the agreement executed between the 
Education Department, on the one hand, and the District Governments, on the 
other hand, setting out, among other things, various maters relating to the 
implementation of the Program through the District Governments.    
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
Page  11
-10- 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program.” 
 
(d) 
The term “Project Agreement” is modified to read “Program Agreement” 
and its definition, as set forth in the Appendix, is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Program Agreement’ means the agreement between the Association 
and the Program Implementing Entity relating to the implementation of 
the Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. 
‘Program Agreement’ includes these General conditions as applied to the 
Program Agreement, and all appendices, schedules, and agreements 
supplemental to the Program Agreement.” 
 
(e) 
The term “Project Implementing Entity” is modified to read “Program 
Implementing Entity” and its definition, as set forth in the Appendix, is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Program Implementing Entity’ means the legal entity (other than the 
Recipient) which is responsible for implementing all or part of the 
Program and which is a party to the Program Agreement.” 
 
Page  12
-11- 
(f) 
The term “Project Implementing Entity’s Address” is modified to read 
“Sindh’s Address” and its definition, as set forth in the Appendix, is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Sindh’s Address’ means the Sindh’s address specified in the Program 
Agreement for the purpose of Section 9.01.”  
 
(g) 
The term “Project Implementing Entity’s Representative” is modified to 
read “Sindh’s Representative” and its definition, as set forth in the 
Appendix, is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Sindh’s Representative’ means the Program Implementing Entity’s 
representative specified in the Program Agreement for the purpose of 
Section 9.02(a).” 
 
