Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:   AB2497 
 
Project Name 
Sindh Education Sector Development Policy Credit 
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
Education 
Project ID 
P100846 
Borrower(s) 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Sindh (Department of Education, Reform Support 
Unit) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 28, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 31, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Since the beginning of the new millennium, Pakistan’s economy has staged a remarkable turnaround, 
laying the ground for sustained growth and poverty reduction.  The period since 2000 has also been a 
period of relative political stability, enabling consistent policies and sustained implementation of the 
government’s reform program.  Economic growth has been accompanied by improvements in poverty 
and human development, but poverty and social deprivation still pose considerable challenges, 
particularly in rural areas. Despite improvements in social indicators including literacy, primary 
enrollment, and immunization coverage, absolute levels of social indicators are low and analysis 
suggests that it will be difficult for Pakistan to achieve the MDGs for infant mortality, child 
malnutrition, primary completion, and elimination of the gender gap in primary enrollment. At all levels 
of education, inequities between provinces, between urban and rural areas, and by socioeconomic status 
remain large. Available information on learning outcomes suggests serious deficiencies in the quality of 
education, with learning outcomes in math and languages of fourth graders being below target levels in a 
recent pilot national assessment. Concerted efforts to improve education and human development 
outcomes are important not only to improve equity, but also as an integral part of Pakistan’s growth 
objectives.  
Sindh is Pakistan’s second most populated province and also its second largest economy. As in the rest 
of the country, poverty has fallen, but remains high especially in rural Sindh. Human development 
indicators have also improved in Sindh like in the rest of Pakistan, but most social indicators remain 
below the national average reflecting primarily the persistently low indicators in rural Sindh. In 2004/05, 
the Net Enrollment Rate in primary was 48% in Sindh (compared to 52% in all Pakistan, and 58% in 
Punjab). The NER for rural girls was only 29% in primary, 13% in middle and 10 percent in matric. 
Like other provinces, learning outcomes are poor. 
Sindh was the first province to institute reforms in the education sector in 2002, but gains were modest 
due to a combination of structural issues relating to governance that affects the education sector in 
Sindh.  Key constraints included a lack of coordination between provincial and district governments, 
cumbersome implementation arrangements for incentive programs (girls’ stipends and textbooks), 
delays in the release of funds to districts and school committees, and deficiencies in monitoring and 
evaluation. Sindh’s own experience and the more recent experience in Punjab demonstrate the potential 
to rapidly improve education outcomes through cross-cutting reforms to improve service delivery. They 
have contributed to a growing consensus on the core elements of a successful reform program. These 
Page  2
include governance and management reforms in the education sector, other sector specific reforms to 
improve access and quality, as well as broader fiscal and financial management reforms.  
Based on this experience, the Government of Sindh is developing a medium term education sector 
reform program, to address the key constraints to improving quality, access and efficiency. The 
developing vision for the reform strategy builds on the existing reform program but is deeper and 
broader and seeks to accelerate the momentum of reforms. In particular it squarely acknowledges 
governance challenges as a key constraint to improving service delivery and seeks to take upfront 
actions to address these.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed Sindh Education Sector Development Policy Credit is the first of a series of three 
programmatic development policy credits de
signed to support the Government of Sindh’s Medium Term 
Education Sector Reform Program. The objectives of the program are to improve participation, retention 
and transition rates, reduce gender and regional disparities, and improve quality in elementary and 
secondary education (grades 1-10). 
The reform program is based on four complementary pillars: 
·
Fiscal, public finance management and procurement reforms 
to increase fiscal space for 
sustaining education reforms, align the provincial budget with the education sector policy 
framework, increase transparency and accountability in the use of public resources, and 
provide incentives to local governments to improve education service delivery.  
·
Education sector management and governance reforms 
to strengthen the capacity of 
provincial and district governments, strengthen merit based recruitment and increase 
accountability of district education management and teaching staff, increase the effectiveness 
of school management committees, and to strengthen monitoring and evaluation.  
·
Reforms to address demand and supply side constraints to improve access to quality 
schooling
,
particularly in rural areas, by improving the quality and utilization of existing 
public infrastructure, improving effectiveness of existing incentive programs (free textbooks 
and girls stipends), and strengthening partnerships with the non-government/private sector 
particularly in underserved areas.  
·
Reforms in teacher professional development, textbook development, and student assessment 
to improve the quality of teaching and learning
,
through improving the quality of teacher 
education and professional development, strengthening assessment of leaning outcomes at the 
provincial level, and improving the quality of textbooks through the gradual introduction of 
competition in textbook development.  
 
All four pillars are designed to improve access, quality and efficiency in education service delivery. 
Each credit in the SEDPC series will be a single tranche operation based on up-front, completed actions 
that reflect substantive progress towards medium term objectives.  The speed of reforms in the different 
pillars in the programmatic series will reflect the evolving focus of the government’s reform program 
and experience in each year. The first credit supports reforms to establish the needed credibility, in 
addition to supporting actions to improve access, quality, equity and efficiency. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The first credit supports reforms to establish the needed credibility, in addition to supporting actions to 
improve access, quality, equity and efficiency. It focuses on cross-cutting governance reforms in the first 
three pillars, while also preparing the ground for medium term reforms in the fourth pillar. Particular 
Page  3
emphasis is thus given in the first year to actions to provide adequate resources for education 
particularly non-salary components, implementing public expenditure reforms to improve the 
sustainability of provincial finances, improving effectiveness of public expenditures through financial 
management and procurement reforms, reforms to increase the predictability of resources available to 
districts while introducing incentives to improve education outcomes, reforms to strengthen monitoring 
and evaluation, to improve the quality and accountability of teachers through reforms in recruitment, and 
to improve the effectiveness and delivery of existing incentive programs (textbooks and stipends).  
 
There are 
five
 distinct but complementary benefits of the support proposed through the programmatic 
series.   
·
Acceleration of progress towards PRSP and MDG objectives  
by increasing education access and 
quality, reducing disparities, and improving the efficiency of education service delivery in 
Pakistan’s second most populous province, albeit one where social indicators are generally 
lagging  
·
Sustained Bank engagement and dialogue 
which provides valuable technical and policy guidance 
on the reforms, leverages political support, as well as significantly larger changes in provincial 
resources in support of reforms.  
·
Donor harmonization 
around a common policy framework and dialogue, including through 
parallel financing (the Bank, EU and possibly the Netherlands).  
·
Increased fiscal stability and effectiveness in public resource use, 
from the accompanying wider 
fiscal and governance reforms.  
·
Potentially important spillover effects 
for other sectors as a result of the package of education as 
well as cross cutting fiscal and governance reforms supported by SEDPC, with education possibly 
leading the way for reforms in other sectors, including other human development sectors. 
 
4. Environmental Aspects 
The program is environmentally benign and will not have significant effects on the environment, 
natural resources, or forests. No construction of new schools is planned, and environmental guidelines 
will be incorporated into any school improvement or expansion. Environmental screening will be 
carried out during preparation. An important environmental concern is the need to ensure the provision 
of safe drinking water and adequate sanitation at schools.  Measures to address these will be integrated 
into the design of the program.  
 
5.    Tentative financing 
Source:IDA ($m.) 
 Total 
TBD 
 
6.    Contact point 
Reema Nayar 
Senior Economist 
Phone: (202) 473-3468 
E-Mail: Rnayar@worldbank.org 
 
