Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2985 
Operation Name 
Sindh DPC 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P100846 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH 
Date PID Prepared 
March 16, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 28, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 7, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The National Context 
 
Since the beginning of the new millennium, Pakistan’s economy has staged a remarkable turnaround,
 
laying the ground for sustained growth and poverty reduction. The 1990s were a period of slow growth, 
and progress in reducing poverty and improving social indicators stagnated. Successive governments 
initiated reforms, but with only modest results as reforms faltered midway due to rising political 
pressures. Beginning in 2000, the Government initiated a more wide-ranging and ambitious reform 
program. This program has been articulated in the Government’s 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 
“Accelerating Growth and Reducing Poverty, The Road Ahead.” These reforms, along with debt 
restructuring, and increased remittances and concessional aid flows, resulted in a dramatic turnaround of 
the economy.  Recent years have witnessed considerable improvement in the performance of the 
industrial sector and particularly the services sector, leading to a significant acceleration in economic 
growth, to 7.5 percent in 2003/04 and 8.6 percent in 2004/05.  In 2005/06, Pakistan’s economy withstood 
serious adverse shocks emanating from its worst ever earthquake, a sharp increase in oil prices, and less 
favorable weather conditions, and registered continued strong growth of about 6.6 percent.  
 
Economic growth has been accompanied by improvements in poverty and human development but 
poverty and social deprivation still pose considerable challenges. Although poverty has fallen, a large 
share of Pakistan’s population, and nearly a third of its rural population, cannot meet basic needs. Despite 
the progress in a range of Pakistan’s social indicators including literacy, primary enrollment and 
immunization coverage, absolute levels of social indicators are low and analysis suggests it will be 
difficult for Pakistan to achieve the MDGs for infant mortality, child malnutrition, primary completion, 
and elimination of the gender gap in primary enrollment. Pakistan’s social indicators compare poorly with 
those of other countries with similar levels of per capita income. Only half of Pakistan’s adult population 
and just over a third of its adult females are literate. Despite rapid progress in increasing primary 
enrollments across region and gender, only one out of every two children age 5-9 years was enrolled in 
primary school in 2004/05. Moreover, at all levels of school education, inequities between provinces, 
between urban and rural areas, and by socioeconomic status remain large. Concerted efforts to improve 
education and human development outcomes are important not only to improve equity but also as an 
integral part of Pakistan’s growth objectives.  
 
The Federal Government has embarked on a comprehensive program to reduce poverty and improve 
human development outcomes including education.
 
These initiatives at the national level provide 
Page  2
potentially important momentum and strategic directions for reforms at the provincial level.  In turn, 
successful attainment of the objectives of these reforms requires complementary efforts in all Pakistan’s 
provinces. Pakistan’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) presented in December 2003 and the 
refinements to the strategy in the five-year Medium Term Development Framework 2005-10 (MTDF) 
adopted with the 2005/06 budget constitute a comprehensive poverty reduction and growth strategy. The 
PRSP, whose targets are fully aligned with the MDGs, emphasizes investing in human capital as a core 
element of the strategy and recognizes that the provincial and district governments play an important role 
in improving the delivery of basic social services. Pakistan’s ambitious devolution reforms, strengthened 
by the 2005 local government elections, are a cornerstone of the government’s strategy for improving 
social service delivery by making the public sector more accountable and efficient.  
 
The Provincial Context  
 
Sindh is Pakistan’s second most populated province and also its second largest economy. It had an 
estimated population of 36 million people in 2005. A coastal province, strategically located between 
Europe and the Far East, and the home of Karachi, Sindh has historically been the country’s industrial and 
commercial hub. It is Pakistan’s most urbanized province with about 50 percent of its population in urban 
areas. Its GDP was around US$28 billion in 2004-05. With GDP per capita at $835 in 2004/5, it had the 
highest per capita income among the provinces. Following the slow growth of the 1990s and severe 
droughts in 1999-2001, Sindh has seen a broad based recovery coinciding with the reforms initiated at the 
federal level. 
 
Poverty has fallen more sharply than in other parts of the country and human development indicators have 
also improved but rural Sindh continues to face challenges. Poverty trends reflect the significant 
vulnerability of the rural population in Sindh, and rural poverty is still high with a large share of the rural 
population are unable to meet basic needs. Along with income poverty, health and education indicators 
such as literacy rates, enrollment rates, and immunization rates, have also improved in Sindh like in the 
rest of Pakistan.  Nevertheless, most social indicators remain below the national average reflecting the 
still substantially lower outcomes in rural areas.  
 
On the education side, enrollment rates in Sindh have improved, particularly in primary schools in rural 
areas, but are still low in rural Sindh where gender gaps are also still significant.  Literacy rates in Sindh 
improved significantly between 1998 and 2005.  Education indicators have also improved between 1998 
and 2005, reflecting in particular large improvements in primary education and in rural areas.  With the 
exception of girls in middle schools, there has been little or no progress at middle and secondary levels. 
Despite this progress, education indicators are still low in rural Sindh, and the province still lags behind 
Punjab and the NWFP in rural areas.  The rural-urban gap is much worse than the gender gap which itself 
is largely a rural phenomenon. The disparities are best seen in comparing urban males with rural females: 
for every 100 boys who enroll in primary and high school in urban Sindh, only 43 and 17 girls do so 
respectively in rural Sindh.  In 2004/05, the NER for rural girls was only 29 percent in primary, 13 
percent in middle, and 10 percent in matric. In urban areas, the primary gaps are between the richest and 
poorest quintiles.  Low enrollment rates in rural Sindh reflect primarily low entry rates into primary 
schools, but also low transition rates from primary to secondary.   
 
Administrative data show a contrasting picture on completion rates. Although primary completion rates 
are high according to the household data, the administrative data show a contrasting situation of high drop 
out rates within primary, and offer useful insights.  Administrative data, like the household data confirm 
that girls in rural Sindh are much less likely to enroll at all compared to boys.  They also confirm a 
significant drop-off between primary and middle schools for both boys and girls but proportionately 
higher for girls.   
 
Page  3
Recently available evidence on student achievement shows low quality of education. Two years of results 
of grade 4 standardized tests from the National Education Assessment System (NEAS) are now available.  
Additional information on learning outcomes is available from the 2006 rural schools survey.  Both 
sources show that learning outcomes in Sindh, as in the rest of Pakistan, are below curricular 
requirements. For example, according to the NEAS 2006, both in Sindh, and in Pakistan, scores were 
significantly below the set mean especially in language and mathematics. The mean score in mathematics 
in Sindh was comparable to the rest of the nation while the mean score in Urdu was significantly higher 
than in other provinces. 
 
Public expenditures on education and their effectiveness are still low
.
Fiscal reforms have increased the 
space for pro-poor expenditures including on education and consolidated education expenditures have 
increased at nearly 16 percent per annum in nominal terms (about 9.5 percent per annum in real terms) 
over the past four years. The composition of the education budget has also improved, as the share of 
non-salary recurrent and development expenditures has increased and the share of salaries in the 
education budget fell from 84 percent in 2001/02 to 77 percent in 2005/06, reflecting in particular the 
provincial initiatives (e.g. textbooks and stipends) financed under the education reform program. Despite 
these improvements, education financing was still low, at about 20 percent of the total provincial budget 
and 1.2 percent of provincial GDP in 2005/06, and key non-salary and development inputs in schools 
remained underfinanced.  Weak implementation, low overall accountability of sector management (see 
below), together with weaknesses in the overall fiduciary environment which also affect the education 
sector, reduce the effectiveness of education spending.   
 
Finally, there are weaknesses in education management at all levels. The provincial government is still 
making the transition to effectively steer and monitor reforms, while weak capacity, limited autonomy 
and lack of accountability limit effective service delivery by districts.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed Sindh Education Sector Development Policy Credit (SEDPC) is the first of a programmatic 
series of three development policy credits designed to support the 
Government of Sindh’s Medium Term 
Education Sector Reform Program (SERP). The objectives of the program are to improve participation, 
retention and transition, reduce gender and regional disparities, and improve quality in elementary and 
secondary education (grades 1-10).   
 
The program is built on four complementary pillars:  
·
Improving fiscal sustainability and the effectiveness of public expenditures
 including in 
education, through reforms to increase the fiscal space for education and other pro-poor 
expenditures, to improve budgetary processes and the composition of expenditures; as well as 
financial management and procurement reforms to increase credibility, transparency and 
accountability in the use of public resources.  
·
Improving education sector management 
through reforms to strengthen the functioning, 
capacity and accountability of provincial and district education management in line with 
devolution objectives, to provide incentives to district governments to improve service 
delivery, and to strengthen the role of school management committees in school development 
and monitoring.  
·
Improving access to quality schooling, 
with a particular focus on rural areas and girls, through 
reforms to improve  the quality and utilization of physical infrastructure in schools, to address 
implementation bottlenecks and improve the effectiveness of incentive programs (free 
textbooks and girls’ stipends), and to launch partnerships with the non-government/private 
sector to increase access and quality.    
Page  4
·
Improving the quality of teaching and learning
,
through instituting merit based recruitment and 
improved accountability of teachers, establishing a competency based system of teacher 
education and continuous professional development, and through strengthening the assessment 
of student achievement in the provincial education system.  
 
All four pillars are designed to improve quality, equity and efficiency in education service delivery, and to 
increase accountability in the education sector. Each credit in the SEDPC series will be a single tranche 
operation based on up-front, completed actions that reflect substantive progress towards medium term 
objectives.  The speed of reforms in the different pillars in the programmatic series will reflect the 
evolving focus of the governm
ent’s reform program and experience in each year. The first credit supports 
reforms to establish the needed credibility through up-front governance reforms cutting across the pillars, 
critical to improving quality, equity and efficiency. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Bank support to the reform program will assist Pakistan in accelerating progress  towards PRSP 
objectives  by increasing education access and quality, reducing disparities, and improving the efficiency 
of education service delivery in Pakistan’s second most populous province, albeit one where social 
indicators are generally lagging. Punjab and Sindh together account for just under 80% of Pakistan’s 
population and improving outcomes in Sindh would be essential for appreciable impact in the country as a 
whole.  In addition, sustained Bank engagement and dialogue which provides valuable technical and 
policy guidance on the reforms, leverages political support, as well as larger changes in provincial 
resources in support of reforms.  
 
4. Financing 
 
IDA: $100 million 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Implementation of reforms is being managed by a Reform Support Unit (RSU). The RSU has been 
established as an integral part of the education department, is headed by a Chief Program Manager, 
reporting directly to the Secretary and Minister of Education. Regular oversight and inter-departmental 
coordination is assured by a Reform Steering Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary of the Province.  
While the overall monitoring and overseeing of the reform program and implementation of selected 
provincial initiatives is the responsibility of the RSU and Education Department, the district education 
management is directly responsible for ensuring implementation of the program through the Terms of 
Partnership (TOP) agreements built into the program.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
There are 
five
 distinct but complementary benefits.   
·
Acceleration of progress towards PRSP objectives  
by
increasing education access and quality, 
reducing disparities, and improving the efficiency of education service delivery in Pakistan’s 
second most populous province, albeit one where social indicators are generally lagging. Punjab 
and Sindh together account for just under 80% of Pakistan’s population and improving outcomes 
in Sindh would be essential for appreciable impact in the country as a whole.   
Page  5
·
Sustained Bank engagement and dialogue 
which provides valuable technical and policy guidance 
on the reforms, leverages political support, as well as larger changes in provincial resources in 
support of reforms.  
·
Donor harmonization 
around a common policy framework and dialogue, including through 
parallel financing (the Bank, EU and possibly the Netherlands). 
·
Increased fiscal stability and effectiveness in public resource use, 
from the accompanying wider 
fiscal and governance reforms.  
·
Potentially important spillover effects 
for other sectors as a result of the package of education as 
well as cross cutting fiscal and governance reforms supported by SEDPC, with education possibly 
leading the way for reforms in other sectors, including other human development sectors. 
 
The operation is subject to the following key risks: 
·
Macroeconomic
,
from continued inflationary pressures and widening trade and current account 
deficits at the national level, and fiscal weaknesses at the provincial level. At the national level, the 
authorities have indicated their determination to adjust monetary policy to address the underlying 
excess liquidity, but only gradually for fear of not stifling growth.  At the provincial level, fiscal 
deficits are capped by the total of donor assistance and net capital receipts. To address potential 
substantial adjustments in budgetary allocations for the SERP or other pro-poor expenditures, a 
satisfactory medium term fiscal framework is built into the Pillar 1 of the program.  
·
Political 
risks which remain high in Sindh’s context of coalition governments. In addition, in the  
run-up to the October 2007 elections and subsequently there are risks associated with continuity in 
the reform program. Political risks are partially mitigated by the consensus on the key reforms in 
the package at the provincial and national levels. Consultations with key stakeholders and 
communication on selected reforms also reduce risks. Finally, the design and sequencing of the 
Bank’s support to focus on a small set of critical actions in the government’s program assists in 
judicious use of political capital, while the programmatic nature of the support provides a 
mechanism to match the volume and pace of lending to the pace of reforms
.
·
Corruption and misuse of resources 
intended for education programs. These risks, however are 
substantially mitigated through the explicit actions in the program to streamline delivery and 
reduce leakages in provincial programs (stipends and textbooks), partnership agreements which 
strengthen accountability of district governments, enhancement of the financial management 
capacity in education to support districts in the provision of adequate, coherent and comprehensive 
budget execution statements, and the planned third party validations, tracking of education 
expenditures, ex-post procurement reviews, and supervision of school rehabilitation portfolios.   
·
Weak implementation capacity,
 at provincial, district and school levels. This is being addressed 
through focused actions and technical assistance to overcome capacity constraints as an integral 
part of the medium term program, and through sequencing of reforms to consider capacity 
constraints.   
·
Fiduciary, 
associated with weak financial management and procurement capacity in provincial and 
district governments. These risks are being addressed through phasing in of the Project for the 
Improvement of Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA), addressing selected constraints 
through Pillar 1 of the SEDPC series, as well as an ongoing dialogue and Analytical and Advisory 
Services (AAA) on wider PFM reforms in the province. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The operation is designed to support the Government’s PRSP objectives.  Equity considerations are 
central in the design of the series, which aims to ensure the benefits of growth are widely shared, both 
through focusing on Sindh, a province where human capital indicators are lagging, as well as through the 
design of targeted programs to improve human capital outcomes among the poor, female and rural 
population of Sindh. All pillars contribute to the poverty objectives. Pillar 3 is particularly designed to 
Page  6
promote access to quality schooling for girls and boys in rural areas, and reduce the barriers for girls to 
access schooling beyond primary levels.  Free textbooks, stipends for girls reduce costs to poor 
households. The government is also focusing on geographic areas where there is larger gender disparity at 
the primary and middle school levels by designing a special incentive for girls in these areas. In addition, 
pillar 1 creates fiscal space for pro-poor expenditures, pillar 2 addresses key deficiencies in service 
delivery in rural areas and promotes community participation, and pillar 4 is designed to support 
improved teaching and learning, including for the poor and rural populations.  
 
The policies supported by the proposed loan may entail only minor effects on 
Sindh’s environment, 
forests, or other natural resources. The government's reform program includes the rehabilitation of 
schools and provision of basic facilities and additional classrooms in small schools, but these will be 
aligned with environmental safeguard standards. The Terms of Partnerships with the District Government 
require adherence to environmental guidelines issued by the Provincial Government to safeguard the 
environment.  Furthermore, Pakistan has an adequate institutional framework and has adopted 
environmental safeguards aimed at offsetting and minimizing potential environmental risks associated 
with construction of small civil works. The country’s legal framework contains provisions to strengthen 
enforcement of environmental regulations. Additionally, there is a high level of environmental awareness 
in the Province.  Although supported policies are not expected to have significant environmental effects, 
analytical work is planned to complete the due diligence to determine whether additional efforts are 
needed to safeguard the environment. This work will be undertaken prior to the beginning of the second 
operation.  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Reema Nayar 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3468 
Fax: (202) 614-1692 
Email: Rnayar@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
