                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001265



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-43180)



                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 65.6 MILLION
                    (US$ 100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                  THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                FOR A

       SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT



                           December 15, 2009




Human Development Sector
South Asia Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2007)

                Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
                      US$ 1.00 = PKR 61.4

                          FISCAL YEAR
                             July-June

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC     Bureau of Curriculum
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CSR     Composite Schedule of Rates
CWIQ    Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DEMIS   District Evaluation and Monitoring Information System
DLI     Disbursement Linked Indicator
DPC     Development Policy Credit
DSP     Differential Stipend Program
EC      European Commission
ED      Education Department
EMR     Education Management Reform
FD      Finance Department
GoS     Government of Sindh
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MTFF    Medium Term Fiscal Framework
NEAS    National Education Assessment System
NER     Net Enrollment Rate
P&D     Planning and Development Department
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PEACE   Provincial Education Assessment Center
PESRP   Punjab Education Sector Reform Program
PGDP    Provincial Gross Domestic Product
PKR     Pakistani Rupee
PPRS    Public Private Partnership for Rural Schools
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSLM    Pakistan Social Living Standards Measurement Survey
RSU     Reform Support Unit
SBD     Standard Bidding Document
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SEDPC              Sindh Education Development Policy Credit
SEF                Sindh Education Foundation
SEMIS              Sindh Evaluation and Monitoring Information System
SEP                Sindh Education Sector Project
SERP               Sindh Education Sector Reform Program
SMCs               School Management Committees
SSAC               Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit
TOP                Terms of Partnership
TPV                Third Party Validation



Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
Country Director: Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager: Amit Dar
Task Team Leader: Reema Nayar
ICR Team Leader: Benjamin Safran
                                       PAKISTAN
                     Sindh Education Sector Development Policy Credit


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 19
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 29
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 30
Annex 7. Operation Policy Matrix and DLI Matrix Comparison ............................... 301
MAP
A. Basic Information
Country:                Pakistan                Program Name:             Sindh DPC
Program ID:             P100846                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43180
ICR Date:               12/23/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 65.6M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 65.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 65.6M
Implementing Agencies:
 Government of Sindh
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/18/2006     Effectiveness:                                06/19/2007
Appraisal:            04/07/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/07/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007         12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem                               Quality at Entry
                          No                                            None
Program at any time                             (QEA):


                                                i
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                           75                   75
Sub-national government administration                             25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                    17                  17
Education for all                                                   33                  33
Gender                                                              17                  17
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    17                  17
procurement
Social safety nets                                                  16                  16

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                  Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                  Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                            Michelle Riboud
Program Team Leader:       Reema Nayar                         Reema Nayar
ICR Team Leader:           Benjamin Safran
ICR Primary Author:        Benjamin Safran


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the SEDPC were to support the Government's reform program which
aims to: improve participation, retention and transition, reduce gender and regional
disparities, and improve quality in elementary and secondary education (grades 1-10). As
a result, (i) net enrollment rates in primary, middle and secondary education are expected
to increase from 48%, 18% and 12% in 2004/05 to 59%, 22% and 14% respectively in
2009/10; (ii) the share of girls in primary and in middle schools in rural areas is expected
to increase from 36% and 28% to 40% and 31% respectively between 2005/06 and
2009/10; (iii) the transition rate for rural girls between primary and middle school is


                                                ii
expected to increase from 47% to 50% between 2005/06 and 2009/10; and (iv)
completion rates and learning outcomes will be regularly monitored.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Net enrollment rates in primary, middle and secondary education.
Value
                                            59%, 22% and
(quantitative or   48%, 18% and 12%                                             51%, 18% and 11%
                                            14%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/01/2004                 11/30/2010                          11/30/2007
                   Note that these targets are measured three years before expected assessment
Comments
                   date and early (first full school year after approval), as these are the latest
(incl. %
                   available data. Enrollment data from the annual census suggest continued
achievement)
                   improvement into 2008/09.
Indicator 2 :      The share of girls in primary and in middle schools in rural areas.
Value
(quantitative or   36% and 28%              40% and 31%                         37% and 32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/01/2006                 11/30/2010                       10/31/2008
Comments           25% and 100% of target achieved respectively.
(incl. %           Note that these targets are measured two years before expected assessment
achievement)       date, as there are the latest data available.
Indicator 3 :      The transition rate for rural girls between primary and middle school.
Value
(quantitative or   47%                      50%                                 49%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/01/2006               11/30/2010                          10/31/2008
Comments
                   66% of target achieved.
(incl. %
                   Note that target is measured two years in advance of expected completion date.
achievement)
                   Completion rates and learning outcomes regularly monitored.
Indicator 4 :
                   Sindh Education                                              Continued
                   Management               Gradual                             improvements in
Value              Information System       strengthening of                    quality and
(quantitative or   (SEMIS) data reliability provincial                          reliability of
Qualitative)       for monitoring           monitoring                          information in
                   completion rate was      systems.                            Provincial Annual
                   issue; National                                              School Census.



                                                  iii
                   Education Assessment                                        PEACE
                   System                                                      successfully
                   (NEAS)/Provincial                                           administered the
                   Education Assessment                                        country's first
                   Center (PEAC)                                               provincial
                   introduced.                                                 diagnostic
                                                                               examination
                                                                               representative at
                                                                               district level.
Date achieved      01/02/2006               05/31/2010                         04/30/2009
                   Target achieved. Quality and reliability of monitoring from provincial census
Comments
                   improved. Completion rates show improvements according to both survey and
(incl. %
                   census data (section 3.2). System for regular monitoring of provincial learning
achievement)
                   achievement in place.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                   Expenditure on education to increase from 1.2% of provincial GDP with
Indicator 1 :      improvements in the composition of expenditure and increase in non-salary
                   O&M as budget is aligned with sector strategy.
                                                                             Expenditure on
                   Expenditure on         Expenditure on
                                                                             education was 1.5%
                   education was 1.2% of education reaches
Value                                                                        of PGDP in 2006-
                   PGDP in 2005-06.       1.4% in 2006-07;
(quantitative or                                                             07; share of salaries
                   Share of salaries in   share of salaries in
Qualitative)                                                                 in education budget
                   education budget was education budget
                                                                             was 67.7% in 2007-
                   74.5%.                 falls to 68%.
                                                                             08.
Date achieved      06/30/2006             06/30/2007                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved and sustained.
achievement)
                   Conditional grants transferred from provincial to district governments upon
Indicator 2 :      negotiation and signature of partnership agreements to support improved
                   service delivery
                                            At least 12 out of
                                                                                Partnership
                                            23 districts
                                                                                agreements signed
                                            negotiate and sign
Value              Not applicable as                                            in all 23 districts in
                                            partnership
(quantitative or   conditional grants to                                        2007/08 and
                                            agreements and
Qualitative)       districts did not exist.                                     2008/09.
                                            receive conditional
                                                                                Conditional grants
                                            grants of Rs. 100
                                                                                received.
                                            million each.
Date achieved      05/15/2006               06/30/2007                          04/30/2009
Comments           Target achieved and sustained.


                                                  iv
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Revamped delivery mechanisms improve delivery of textbook and stipends
Indicator 3 :
                   program to intended beneficiaries
                                                                          (1) Textbooks
                                          (1) Timely
                                                                          delivered to 86% of
                                          delivery of
                                                                          grade 1-10 students
                                          textbooks to at
                                                                          within first month
                                          least 80% of grade
                   Not available but                                      of 2008/09
Value                                     1-10 students.
                   several studies                                        academic year.
(quantitative or                          (2) At least 80% of
                   established poor                                       (2) Stipend
Qualitative)                              intended girls in
                   delivery record.                                       delivered to more
                                          middle and high
                                                                          than 90% of
                                          schools receive
                                                                          intended girls in
                                          full amount of
                                                                          2008/09 academic
                                          stipends.
                                                                          year.
Date achieved      05/15/2006             06/30/2006                      04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved and sustained.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      New merit based policy in place for transparent recruitment of teachers
                                                                              Policy approved on
                                            Policy to be                      April 25, 2007.
                   No policy for merit
Value                                       approved in 2006-                 5,819 teachers
                   based transparent
(quantitative or                            07 and                            recruited on merit
                   contract based
Qualitative)                                implemented in                    in 2007/08, as
                   recruitment of teachers.
                                            successive years.                 validated by third
                                                                              party.
Date achieved      05/15/2006               06/30/2007                        04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %           Target achieved and sustained.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/05/2007            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            99.02


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the time of preparation of the Sindh Education Development Policy Credit (SEDPC),
Pakistan's economy had seen a remarkable turnaround since 2000 compared to the 1990's.
Economic growth averaged more than 7 percent from 2003-2006, reaching 6.6 percent in 2005/06
despite adverse shocks from its worst ever earthquake and sharp increases in oil prices. This
turnaround of the economy was attributed to government initiated reforms, debt restructuring,
increased remittances and concessional aid-flows. The government's prudent expenditure and
debt management strategies coupled with improved revenue collection resulted in fiscal
improvements. Economic growth generated improvements in human development, with estimates
of the magnitude of the poverty reduction over the first half of the decade ranging from 5 to 10.5
percentage points. Despite this progress, however, absolute levels of social indicators were low
and compared poorly with those of other countries with similar levels of per capita income. The
Federal Government embarked on a comprehensive program to reduce poverty and improve
human development outcomes including education.

Sindh, Pakistan's second largest province in terms of both population and economic output, had
the highest output per capita among the provinces. Despite its strong relative economic position
and growth performance, Sindh performed poorly across a range of socioeconomic indicators.
Fewer than half the children of the province's primary school-age population were enrolled in
school. The enrollment rate was particularly low in rural Sindh, where gender gaps were
significant. Low enrollment rates in rural Sindh reflect primarily low entry rates into primary
schools, but also low transition rates from primary to secondary, as fewer than half of rural girls
stayed enrolled for some middle or secondary education after completing primary schooling.
Lastly, evidence on student achievement showed low quality of education.

Major issues that affected the performance of the education sector and service delivery, thereby
causing the aforementioned poor outcomes, were: (i) insufficient and inefficient resource
utilization for education; (ii) weak education sector management at all levels; (iii) constraints to
increasing access to quality education; and (iv) constraints to improving the quality of teaching
and learning.

Addressing the low human development indicators in Sindh, and in particular rural Sindh, was
critical to achieving Pakistan's growth and poverty reduction objectives. The Government of
Sindh, therefore, adopted a medium-term Education Sector Reform Program (SERP) in 2006.
The vision for SERP built on the lessons from the sector reform program initiated in 2001, while
further deepening and broadening the reforms. In particular, it recognized that education reforms
can only be successful when sector specific reforms aimed at improving quality and access are
included in a broader framework that improves accountability in the sector. It also acknowledged
that education reforms cannot be successful in isolation, but need to be embedded in a broader
reform framework that ensures fiscal sustainability and improves the fiduciary environment.

SERP aimed to introduce system-wide reforms, such as approving a new teacher recruitment
policy, establishing conditional grants under Terms of Partnership (TOP) agreements between
provincial and district governments, instituting a Reform Support Unit (RSU) as an integral part
of the education department, and implementing a revamped school census to improve data
collection and information on outcomes. It also introduced improvements in incentive programs;
the provision for free textbooks to all public school students and stipends to all girls in classes VI



                                                  1
through X. These sector reforms were coupled with fiscal reforms to improve sustainability and
effectiveness of public expenditures, including education sector expenditures.

The World Bank was requested to provide technical and financial support to the development of
the reform program. A development policy credit (DPC) was an appropriate instrument to support
cross-sectoral areas linked to the education reform program. The SEDPC was intended to be the
first of a programmatic series of three development policy credits in support of the government's
medium-term reform program. The Board of Executive Directors in the Bank approved the
SEDPC in June 2007. International Development Association (IDA) financing was committed
through US$100 million single tranche DPC. Follow up credits of US$100 million each were
planned for FY08 and FY09 as part of the programmatic series in support of the government's
medium-term reform program. The series, however, was discontinued, although the Bank
continued to support the reform agenda through the Sindh Education Sector Project (SEP),
approved by the Board in June 2009 with implementation ongoing (see section 1.6 for more
details).

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objectives of the SEDPC were to support the Government's reform program which aims to:
improve participation, retention and transition, reduce gender and regional disparities, and
improve quality in elementary and secondary education (grades 1-10). As a result, (i) net
enrollment rates in primary, middle and secondary education are expected to increase from 48%,
18% and 12% in 2004/05 to 59%, 22% and 14% respectively in 2009/10; (ii) the share of girls in
primary and in middle schools in rural areas is expected to increase from 36% and 28% to 40%
and 31% respectively between 2005/06 and 2009/10; (iii) the transition rate for rural girls
between primary and middle school is expected to increase from 47% to 50% between 2005/06
and 2009/10; and (iv) completion rates and learning outcomes will be regularly monitored.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program
The program is built on four complementary pillars designed to improve quality, equity and
efficiency in education service delivery, and to increase accountability in the education sector:

    I.     Improving fiscal sustainability and the effectiveness of public expenditures including
           in education, through fiscal reforms to enable increases in education and other pro-
           poor expenditures, to improve budgetary processes and the composition of
           expenditures; as well as financial management and procurement reforms to increase
           credibility, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources.

    II.    Improving education sector management through reforms to strengthen the
           functioning, capacity and accountability of provincial and district education
           management in line with devolution objectives, to provide incentives to district
           governments to improve service delivery, and to strengthen the role of school
           management committees in school development and monitoring.

    III.   Improving access to quality schooling, with a particular focus on rural areas and girls,
           through reforms to improve the quality and utilization of physical infrastructure in
           schools, to address implementation bottlenecks and improve the effectiveness of




                                                2
           incentive programs (free textbooks and girls' stipends), and to launch partnerships
           with the non-government/private sector to increase access and quality.

    IV.    Improving the quality of teaching and learning, through instituting merit-based
           recruitment and improved accountability of teachers, establishing a competency-based
           system of teacher education and continuous professional development, and through
           strengthening the assessment of student achievement in the provincial education
           system.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
The original Policy Areas were not formally revised.

1.6 Other significant changes
The SEDPC was designed to be the first in a series of three programmatic DPCs to support the
government's own reform program. The series, however, was discontinued after the first
education sector credit. The Bank instead continued to support the sector-wide reform program
through a sector investment credit, and the SEP was approved by the Board of Executive
Directors of the Bank on June 4, 2009. The SEP design reflects the lessons learned from the
SEDPC. It builds on the foundation laid under the policy credit, following the design and
adoption of significant policies and reform programs. The change in instrument maintained the
focus on completing predetermined results for disbursement as in DPCs, but included an
enhanced focus on implementation outcomes through the achievement of measurable targets
(known as disbursement linked indicators or DLIs). It also provided enhanced focus on
strengthening associated provincial systems through technical capacity building and
implementation support. Lastly, the new instrument provided continued assistance over a three-
year period, disbursing semi-annually, reflecting the Bank's commitment and predictability of
financing, predicated on achievement of results.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance
Overall, the implementation of the government's program, the SERP has been commendable,
with achievement of result targets broadly as anticipated. The prior actions supported by SEDPC
laid the foundation for strong implementation of the reform program. The reform program was
designed around four core pillars to improve quality, equity and efficiency in education service
delivery, and to increase accountability in the education sector. SEDPC supported reforms to
establish the needed credibility through up-front governance reforms cutting across the pillars,
critical to improving quality, equity and efficiency. In addition to the achievements of the prior
actions for SEDPC (see Table 2), the Operation Policy Matrix set annual targets for each policy
area, providing the framework that guided implementation between project approvals. Although
the series was discontinued after the first credit, the Policy Matrix, in particular year two targets,
still guided implementation and ultimately set the foundation for the SEP DLI matrix. Annex 7
shows how performance benchmarks/triggers originally anticipated under the second DPC were
achieved, and in some cases surpassed by the achievements of year one DLIs in the SEP, while
being accompanied by strengthening particularly in fiduciary and safeguard aspects. The program
performance is summarized pillar by pillar below:

Pillar I: Improving fiscal sustainability and the effectiveness of public expenditures
To enhance sustainability of provincial finances while creating additional fiscal space for
spending on education reforms, the government approved a Medium Term Fiscal Framework



                                                  3
(MTFF) for FY08-10. In addition, to improve the level and quality of education expenditures, the
government approved a medium-term sector policy framework for education and an
accompanying medium-term financial plan. Table 1 shows the MTFF and education sector policy
framework targets were met or exceeded, and have been sustained through 2008/09.

  Table 1: Pillar I Fiscal Targets and Achievements
                                        A. Medium Term Fiscal Framework
                                                                 Target                           Actual
                      Indicator                             (2005/06-2009/10)                (2005/06-2008/09)
  Increase in own source revenue                                  13.5% p.a.                     16.5% p.a.

  Increase in interest and subsidy expenditure              5% p.a. (maximum)               Declined by 4% p.a.

  Increase in PRSP expenditure1                                   16% p.a.                       16.6% p.a.

                                      B. Education Sector Policy Framework

                      Indicator                                    Target                          Actual
                                                               30% p.a. through
  Increase in non-salary recurrent expenditures                                          56% p.a. through 2008/09
                                                                  2009/10

  Education expenditures (as % of PGDP)                        1.5% by 2009/10                1.5% in 2008/09

                                                           26% from 2005/06 to            26.7% from 2005/06 to
  Increase in overall education sector budget
                                                                 2006/07                        2006/07

To increase effectiveness of public expenditures, including on education, financial management
and procurement reforms were accelerated. An Executive Order was issued to revitalize
Department Accounts Committee meetings, and hence review and resolve audit observations
raised against them. By 2007/08, more than 35 percent of the 7,679 outstanding audits were
resolved, exceeding the target for the third year of the program after just one year of
implementation. In addition, a revised procurement law was passed in April 2009, followed by
the notification by SPPRA of procurement rules and notification of quarterly updates of the CSR
to align it with market rates. These procurement reforms will ensure the use of (i) revised
standard bidding documents (SBDs) in line with international best practice; and (ii) regular
quarterly updates of the Composite Schedule of Rates (CSR) to align it with the market, both of
which are necessary reforms to increase transparency and efficiency in public procurement.

These actions resulted in improved medium-term fiscal policy and created space for spending on
education reform. As a result, the education sector budget increased by 84 percent over the three
year period of 2005/06 to 2008/09. In addition, SERP was fully financed for 2008/09, in
alignment with the MTFF framework, showing the sustainability of these reforms as they
continued after implementation of SEDPC.


Pillar 2: Improve education sector management

1
  Increase in PRSP expenditures calculated through 2007/08 as this is the latest year with actual, not budgeted,
expenditures.




                                                           4
Capacity constraints, at all levels of the government, were a systemic issue for service delivery.
To strengthen provincial capacity, the RSU was established as an integral part of the education
department. Tasked with policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation functions, and donor
coordination, the RSU became the primary implementing and coordination agency for most of the
reform initiatives.

To strengthen monitoring and evaluation activities, a revamped public school census was
implemented for academic year 2005/06. This provided key new information (on teachers'
positions and qualifications, school infrastructure, conditions, etc.) that previously was not
collected, and provided the data used to establish of baselines for the program's key performance
indicators. In addition, data reliability improved, in large part due to capacity improvements and
equipment upgrading at both at the provincial (SEMIS) and district (DEMIS) levels. Census
administration has continued to improve both in terms of quality and timeliness since the first
`revamped' census. The 2008/09 census was administered in fewer than five months, including
implementation of a sample based data verification exercise for the first time.

To address service delivery capacity constraints, particular in the districts, the province launched
a process to strengthen education management at all levels. A review of roles, responsibilities and
organization structures in education management at provincial and district levels was completed
for 11 districts in 2008/09. These findings created the basis for an education management reform
(EMR) program. Implementation of the EMR is underway, targeting the introduction of education
management structure, posts, job descriptions, training, district education development plans and
quality assurance of schools in at least 2 pilot districts during the 2009/10 academic year.

Another objective of the reform program was to increase community participation through school
management committees (SMCs). While not a condition for disbursement under the SEDPC,
mobilizing and establishing SMCs in middle and secondary schools was a target activity under
the pillar 2 reforms. SMC guidelines on composition, appointment procedures, roles and
responsibilities were developed, but the mobilization campaign was delayed beyond the
implementation of the SEDPC. While this was a shortcoming of the project implementation,
SMC mobilization was a key initiative of the SEP, with a target of 60 percent of all functional
primary and secondary schools having active SMCs, including receiving annual budget
allocations from the provincial government during the 2009/10 academic year. Thus far, more
than 18,000 SMCs have been activated, receiving guidelines and funding via direct deposits into
newly established SMC bank accounts.

Pillar 3: Improving access to quality schooling
To make immediate progress in increasing the availability of minimum physical facilities in
government schools, grants of PKR 100 million, conditioned on signing terms of partnership
(TOP) agreements, were released to districts to increase the number of schools that meet
minimum physical standards. These reforms aimed to improve the quality of school rehabilitation
by districts (in line with devolution) and were also designed to improve education sector
management by introducing accountability and performance incentives for improved service
delivery. Numerous implementation issues in needs-based project identification, documentation,
construction quality and completion were found by supervision field visits and third party
validation (TPV) reports. Therefore, for the second round of TOP funding, SEP supported the
contracting of a third party construction supervision firm to vet the set of proposed projects,
provide form designs to ensure minimum levels of quality, supervise construction, and validate
completion of all works, ensuring quality and accountability. In addition, in year two of the TOP
program, grants to districts were conditioned on performance, with the strong performers



                                                 5
receiving more than PKR100 million, and weak performers receiving less, further incentivizing
performance for future rounds.

The government continued to roll out its programs to reduce costs and encourage families to send
their children to school through the expansion of the middle school girls stipends program to
include high schools (class IX and X), and through the extension of the policy of free textbooks
up to class X. New delivery mechanisms for both these programs were introduced to improve
monitoring and efficiency. As a result, more than 80 percent of students in classes I through X
received free textbooks in the 2006/07 academic year. In addition, the annual stipend for the
2005/06 school year was delivered to about 80 percent of eligible girls, dramatically improving
delivery success, as previously payments often arrived as just a fraction of the intended amount, if
at all. Issues of delays still existed, however, as payments were received with a one year lag. The
improvements under SEDPC have continued to be built upon, and are supported by SEP.
Textbooks were delivered to more than 86 percent of all students within the first month of the
2008/09 academic year. Stipends reached more than 90 percent of intended beneficiaries during
the same academic year, a delivery of more than 300,000 girls. Monitoring and evaluating these
programs will be further enhanced with TPV reports planned for 2009/10 for stipends delivery
and in 2010/11 for both textbook and stipends deliveries.

Recognizing the key role that the private sector plays in education, SERP envisioned the
establishment of a partnership with the private sector to enhance the access to schooling. A
private school census was launched to assess the existing private school network. Ultimately, this
commitment first voiced during implementation of the SEDPC lead to the development of the
Public Private Partnership for Rural Schools (PPRS) program. Implemented by the Sindh
Education Foundation (SEF), the PPRS partners with entrepreneurs in underserved localities
(identified as those with the nearest school more than 1 km away) and distributes a per student
subsidy to these entrepreneurs to provide schooling as long as they maintain a minimum level of
learning and infrastructure quality. The PPRS launched with 200 schools in 2009 and currently
supports more than 16,000 students. Plans are for the program to increase participation to as
many as 1,000 schools over the next two years. The program is fully funded by the GoS,
implemented through the SEF, and supported by the SEP, with an on-going impact evaluation to
assess the outcomes of this innovative program.

Pillar 4: Improving the quality of teaching and learning
Reforming teacher recruitment procedures was one of the most challenging initiatives under
SERP because of Sindh's history with patronage-based appointments. Despite this challenge, the
GoS committed to transparent merit-based recruitment of teachers on school specific contracts by
approving a new teacher recruitment policy. The policy specifies formula-based selection using a
candidate's test score (in an independently administered test), domicile, qualification (both
professional and academic), and gender as the predetermined criteria. In the first round of
recruitment, approximately 7,000 of the 130,000 applicants scored above the 60 percent pass
threshold, with just over 5,800 teachers ultimately appointed positions. A TPV exercise
determined the first round was satisfactory implemented. Candidates were appointed according to
merit for the first time in the history of the province, with all newly appointed candidates scoring
above 60 percent on the entrance exam, and no government teachers joining the teaching force
outside the merit-based recruitment process.

To increase accountability for student learning outcomes and strengthen assessments, staff
positions for the Provincial Education Assessment Center (PEACE) were created within the
Bureau of Curriculum (BOC). The creation of PEACE was the first step toward institutionalizing
assessments to provide regular feedback on the provincial education system. A schedule of


                                                 6
diagnostic assessments, the first assessments representative at the district level for any province in
the country, has been set as part of the SEP, and class IV math diagnostic was implemented in
academic year 2008/09. Three additional diagnostic exams are scheduled over the next two
academic years, with corresponding analysis and reports to be disseminated subsequently.

Table 2 below details the set of prior actions for the SEDPC all of which were met in a timely
manner.

  Table 2 : Prior Actions for SEDPC
  Sindh Education Sector Development Policy Credit
  List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                            Status
  Pillar 1: Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Effectiveness of Public Expenditures
  Objective: Provincial medium-term fiscal policy is sustainable and creates space
  for education reforms
        The Government approves a Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF)
           for FY08-FY10 which shows at least a 13.5% p.a. increase in own          Completed
           source revenue between 2006/07-2009/10; keeps increases in interest
           and subsidy expenditure below 5% p.a.; and increases PRSP
           expenditures by at least 15% p.a.
  Objective: Increase level and quality of education sector expenditures in line
  with education sector policy.
        The Government approves a medium-term sector policy framework for
           education and a financing plan aligned with sector policy which          Completed
           projects annual increases in nominal non-salary O&M allocations of
           30% p.a. and an increase in education expenditures to 1.5% of PGDP
           by 2009/10. The 2006/07 education budget is aligned with sector policy
           and shows an increase of over 26% in overall budget for education.
  Objective: Increase effectiveness of public expenditures (including in the
  education sector) through financial management and procurement reforms
        The Government issues an Executive Order requiring regular DAC             Completed
           meetings in order to review and settle all `advance' audit observations
           on the accounts of Sindh's agencies and departments at both provincial
           and district levels to progressively clear their backlogs
  PILLAR 2. IMPROVING EDUCATION SECTOR MANAGEMENT
  Objective: Strengthen devolution by increasing provincial capacity in policy
  formulation, standard setting, technical support and monitoring and evaluation
  while strengthening incentives and capacity of districts to deliver on education
  sector service delivery objectives.
        Reform Support Unit established and fully functional as integral part of
           the education department, with responsibility for education policy
           formulation, monitoring and evaluation and donor coordination in
           education sector.                                                        Completed
        Implement a revamped school census in order to establish baselines for
           key performance and input indicators at provincial and district level.
        GoSindh negotiates and signs terms of partnership (TOP) agreements
           with at least 12 district governments and releases conditional transfers
           upon signature. The agreements set out provincial and district
           government responsibilities in education service delivery together with
           associated performance indicators, their baselines and annual targets.
  PILLAR 3. IMPROVING ACCESS TO QUALITY SCHOOLING PARTICULARLY IN
  RURAL AREAS AND FOR GIRLS
  Objective: Improve the quality and utilization of public school infrastructure
  and provide incentives for school attendance, particularly for girls from poor    Completed
  families


                                                  7
        Deliver textbooks to at least 80% of grade 1-10 students within one
         month of the start of the school year, and deliver stipends to at least
         80% of intended beneficiaries (girls in middle and high schools), based
         on revamped delivery mechanism, and launch third party validations of
         both interventions
 PILLAR 4: IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF TEACHING AND LEARNING
 Objective: Improve recruitment and management of teachers
      GoSindh notifies new policy for transparent, merit-based recruitment of
         contract teachers under school specific non-transferable contracts,     Completed
         based inter alia on scores on tests administered by a third party,
         domicile of the candidate, gender, and academic qualifications.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
The substantial implementation progress of SERP was a result of a combination of factors, many
of which positively affected implementation, but some of which slowed and even hindered
progress:

The provincial reform program was closely aligned to major national level initiatives, as well the
reform programs in other provinces (Punjab in particular). The alignment of national and
provincial reform programs is seen in the national PRSP and comparable Punjab Education
Sector Reform Program (PERSP). Thus the reforms were not isolated attempts to improve the
education sector in Sindh, rather part of the larger national agenda which helped ensure political
commitment and maintain continued commitment to SERP across two political governments.

Donor harmonization was critical, ensuring that a single program was being supported by DPs
and minimizing the government's capacity constraints. Donor alignment between the World Bank
and EC was exemplary. The use of the same policy matrix focused the reform agenda on a single
program and reduced the reporting burden on the RSU. Joint review missions allowed for a more
fluid and concentrated transfer of ideas between the development partners, and between the
donors and the government.

Regular and sustained dialogue between the Bank and senior level Government officials and
various stakeholders at the district and school level played a key role in facilitating continuity in
SERP implementation by the new government that came in early 2008, particularly in sector
governance reforms. At the same time, technical inputs from Bank staff and consultants through,
for example, analytical reports and a variety of just-in-time policy and technical assistance notes
have supported design and implementation.

Risks were well identified and appropriately mitigated. There were a number of risks identified
in project preparation that threaten the sustainability of the reform program, such as uncertainty in
political stability and capacity constraints. These risks, however, were well identified and
mitigated through project design and preparation (see section 4 for more details).

Continuity in the Bank's support and message were central to guiding implementation. Despite a
lag in Bank's financial assistance after the approval of SEDPC, the framework provided by the
Operation Policy Matrix guided implementation after approval and before preparation of SEP.
Consistency between Operation Policy Matrix and DLI Matrix provided additional emphasis on
key reforms.

Despite these positive factors, numerous factors slowed down implementation. First, in
anticipation of elections, the government's attention was diverted from implementation of the


                                                 8
reform program. Politically difficult reforms, such as merit-based teacher recruitment,
experienced a loss of commitment as elections drew nearer. Subsequently, the unforeseen
political unrest in the wake of Benazir Bhutto's assassination stalled implementation during this
time due to continued political uncertainty, riots, and civil unrest. While the commitment was
renewed when the new government took over in 2008, the result was more than six months of lost
implementation. Lastly, the macroeconomic growth seen in advance of project preparation was
not sustained during implementation, due in part to the various crises (food, fuel and financial)
that likely increased the opportunity cost associated with going to school (or sending one's
children to school). The steady progress in achievement of the development objectives is
especially commendable when considering these factors.

 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
M&E Design: Adequate performance indicators were provided to monitor progress towards
achieving the PDOs. As described in the program document, data reliability for monitoring was
historically an issue. Therefore, continued strengthening of provincial monitoring systems was
critical in determining baselines for development objectives and key project indicators.
Household survey information from the PSLM/CWIQ provided complementary information used
to triangulate and corroborate the census data, as well as the primary source for evaluating certain
PDOs. Overall, in large part due to improvements during project preparation, M&E design was
adequate to establish indicators to monitor project and program performance.

M&E Implementation: Monitoring and evaluation during implementation was exemplary,
strengthened through multiple channels. First, capacity building of the SEMIS within the RSU
strengthened linkages between data collection, monitoring, analysis and policy planning. The core
output of this system, the new public school census provided significantly improved information
on an annual basis, increasingly reliable due to validation exercises and performance incentives at
the district level. Second third party validation exercises were used to monitor performance on
certain activities, such as evaluating compliance with the teacher recruitment policy and incentive
programs. Third, the RSU commissioned several independent studies on specific policy issues,
such as the effectiveness of SMCs or the viability of closed schools, to help inform policy
discussions. Fourth, a provincial assessment system of student learning was established to enable
feedback to improve learning quality. Establishing the baselines and ability to monitor learning
quality is the first step in addressing this critical element of the education system.

In addition, a number of impact evaluations for key interventions, such as the public-private
partnership initiative, were planned at the time of SEDPC preparation and are now underway as
part of the SEP. These will provide valuable information to inform future policies in the province,
the rest of the country, and even globally.

M&E Utilization: The use of data collected as a result of the strengthened monitoring and
evaluation systems began during project implementation and continued through the preparation
and implementation of the SEP. For example, the improved census was used to establish targets
for the SEDPC implementation, as well as aid in the design of the SEP. As a result of
improvements in data quality, the department has begun using these data to plan and implement
policies and design programs. For example, information on all public school teachers was
collected for the first time, which enabled identification of schools with a dearth of resources
(high student-teacher ratios) to be given new teachers under the merit-based recruitment
initiative.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:



                                                 9
The discontinuation of the DPC series after only the first of three planned credits was done in the
context of the preparation of the SEP, which was approved June 4, 2009 by the Board ($300
million over three years). The lessons learned from the SEDPC were incorporated into the design
of the SEP, and many of the initiatives build on the momentum initiated under the SEDPC. The
SEP, instead of continuing in the series of DPCs, is a specific investment credit, disbursing
against achievement of DLIs. As mentioned in section 1.6, this innovative instrument maintained
the focus on completing predetermined results for disbursement as in DPCs, through DLIs, which
had an enhanced focus on implementation outcomes and also through technical assistance to
strengthen provincial systems (e.g. fiduciary, safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation) and for
capacity building and implementation support. The Operation Policy Matrix year two targets set
the foundation for the SEP DLI matrix. Annex 7 shows how performance benchmarks originally
anticipated under the second DPC were achieved, and in some cases surpassed by the
achievements of year one DLIs in the new project. In addition, the SEP provides continued
assistance over three years, reflecting the Bank's commitment and predictability of financing,
predicated on achievement of results.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives: The objectives of the project remain relevant and consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for 2006-2009. This CAS emphasized strengthened
macroeconomic management and resource utilization (CAS Pillar 1), strengthened governance
and service delivery (CAS Pillar 2), and improving lives and protecting the vulnerable. These
priorities are core elements of the program objectives (PDO 2 and PDO 3) and design (pillar 1
and pillar 2 reforms).

The project also contributed to Pakistan's priority for investing in human development articulated
in PRSP II (Government of Pakistan, 2009), finalized in January 2009. PRSP II emphasizes the
need (i) to address financing for the sector; strengthen planning and implementation capacity; (ii)
improve resource utilization; (iii) enhance governance for greater accountability of education
providers to the community; (iv) build capacity of district and local institutions; and (v)
strengthen the role of school committees; all of which are central in SERP and SEDPC.

Design and Implementation: The design of the project is relevant, reflecting proper diagnosis
and plans to meet the development priorities. The program's focus on (i) implementation
capacity, (ii) governance reforms; (iii) strengthening monitoring and evaluation; and (iv)
improved service delivery for underserved groups were appropriately identified as key issues for
effective service delivery. The Bank's implementation assistance was responsive to the
government's needs. The Bank team engaged in high-level policy dialogue throughout project
implementation, and provided continued technical assistance. In addition, the shift in Bank
support from the series of policy credits to investment and results based financing reflected the
enhanced focus on implementation outcomes and the need to strengthen associated provincial
systems through technical capacity building and implementation support.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

PDO 1: Improve participation, retention and transition
PDO Indicators: (1) Net primary, middle and high school enrollment rates; (2)Total public
school enrollment; (3) Transition rate from primary to secondary school.



                                                10
There has been satisfactory progress made toward this objective. SEDPC supported SERP to
achieve this objective in two key ways. First, fiscal (pillar 1) reforms resulted in, among other
benefits, increased education sector spending and created space to finance interventions in the
reform program. Second, SEDPC supported capacity and system improvements to successfully
execute the reform agenda which led to improved performance of key sub-programs and therefore
improve service delivery. The results were improved inputs, quality and ultimately demand for
education sector services. Construction of new and missing facilities under the TOP subprogram
resulted in approximately 2,400 additional classrooms, including more than 500 formerly
shelterless schools receiving a new school building. Under the PPRS initiative, nearly 200
schools have been established to date with more than 16,000 students enrolled in these schools.
Nearly 6,000 teachers were recruited under the new merit-based teacher initiative. Additionally,
the improvements in the performance of incentive programs have resulted in the annual delivery
of more than 20 million textbooks and more than 300,000 girls' stipends payments since 2006/07.

Improved inputs into education increased accessibility to quality facilities that otherwise would
not have been present, especially in disadvantaged areas, which likely induced out of school
children into schooling. Incentive programs reduced the direct cost of schooling, which
potentially encouraged households to choose to send children to school when they might not have
otherwise, of particular value during a crisis. And improvements in quality, both of learning
conditions and teachers, could nudge households to decide to send all or some of the children to
school if the perceived value of schooling increased.

As a result, net enrollment rates in primary school showed steady growth from 48 percent in
2004/05 to 51 percent in 2007/08. Over the same period, net middle school enrollment rates
increased from 17 percent to 18 percent and net enrollment rates in high school remained constant
at 11 percent. While the achievement is short of the targets set in the program document, there
are a number of factors that, when taken into consideration, warrant the satisfactory rating: (i)
targets were set to be achieved in 2010/11, and therefore are assessed three years in advance of
completion date (and only one year after project approval); (ii) relative to annual targets set in the
program document, primary net enrollment rate (NER) exceeded the 2007/08 target, and middle
and high NER are 1 and 2 percentage points below the respective annual target; (iii) there was a
slowdown in implementation experienced just after project approval (see the final paragraph of
section 2.2 for further details), after which implementation progress picked up, and therefore the
indicators are expected to show accelerated progress in the coming years; (iv) enrollment targets
were considered ambitious when set, and have since been revised downward as part of SEP.

The annual school census provides more recent data that shows continued strong improvements
in public school enrollment. Total public school enrollment increased by 7 percent from 2005/06
to 2008/09, or nearly 280 thousand students, from just over 4.06 million students to over 4.34
million students. In rural Sindh, public school enrollment increased by 10 percent, or more 320
thousand students, over this period. This achievement is in line with the design of the reform
program, which specifically targeted rural areas because of the poor enrollment performance and
regional disparities. While there was a decline in public school enrollment in urban areas, this is
likely explained by an increased presence of private sector in urban areas, supported by PSLM
data showing stagnated and declining NER for public primary and secondary schools in urban
areas compared to increased NER in urban private schools at the primary and secondary levels.

Lastly, transition rates from primary to secondary school improved in rural Sindh as well,
increasing from 54 percent to 56 percent from 2005/06 to 2008/09. These improvements were
driven by improvements for rural girls, specifically targeted in the program (see PDO 2 for


                                                 11
further detail). There was, however, a decline in public school transition rates in urban areas. This
trend, again, in likely explained by the shift from public to private sector in urban areas, as public
secondary NER decreased by 3 percent p.a. from 1998/99 to 2006/07 compared to an increase in
private secondary NER of 5 percent p.a. over the same period.

PDO 2: Reduce gender and regional disparities
PDO Indicators: (1) Share of girls in primary schools in rural areas; (2) Share of girls in middle
schools in rural areas; (3) Transition rate for rural girls from class V to class VI.

There has been satisfactory achievement of this objective. Stronger capacity and budgetary
allocations supported by SEDPC (as noted in PDO 1) resulted in successful implementation of
initiatives targeting the most disadvantaged groups: rural households and females.

Revamped delivery mechanisms for incentive programs that set specific performance targets
resulted in significant performance improvements. As a result, free textbooks were delivered to
more than 80 percent of all students in class I through class X in academic year 2007/08. This
performance was sustained in academic year 2008/09 with more than 86 percent of students
receiving textbooks within the first month of the academic year; a delivery of more than 20
million textbooks. There was also improved performance of the delivery of stipends to all girls in
class VI to class X. More than 90 percent of intended beneficiaries received the subsidy payment
in academic year 2008/09; a total of more than 300,000 beneficiaries.

In addition to improved implementation performance of existing incentive programs, SEDPC
supported the design and introduction of new innovative programs targeted to reach the most
disadvantaged groups. The differential stipend program (DSP) focused on reducing the rural
gender disparities. Launched in 2007/08, the program provided a higher stipend amount to girls in
low transition rate (rural) talukas. The aforementioned PPRS program also targeted improvements
in access in the rural areas. And school rehabilitation through the TOP often brought
infrastructure improvements to the rural areas where the need was the greatest. Improved or new
facilities, such as construction of missing toilets, are especially critical for girls, particularly
towards the end of primary school and at higher levels. Incentive programs reduced the direct cost
of schooling, which potentially nudged households to send children to school when they might
not otherwise, especially for poor families who often decide to keep some of the children (usually
female) out of school to assist in household work.

The successful implementation of these programs translated into achievement of the development
outcome objective. The share of girls in primary schools in rural areas has increased from 36
percent baseline in 2005/06 to 37 percent in 2008/09. This represents progress towards
achievement of the target, and high likelihood of achievement by the target date. In addition, the
share of girls in middle schools in rural areas has increased from 28 percent to 32 percent over the
same period, exceeding the project target two years in advance of expected assessment date. This
is caused, in part, by the increase in the transition rate for rural girls from class V to class VI from
47 percent in 2005/06 to 49 percent in 2007/08, nearly achieving the project target value two
years in advance of expected achievement date. Rural boys transition rate over the same period
remained constant at 60 percent, consistent with the explanation that the programs that targeted
girls transition rates (i.e. stipends) contributed to the achievement of the PDO.

Achievement of this PDO by improving access and equity to the most disadvantaged is a key step
to reduce the gender and regional disparities and progress towards achieving the MDGs of
universal primary completion and elimination of gender disparity in primary and secondary
education.


                                                  12
PDO Objective 3: Improve quality in elementary and secondary education
PDO Indicators: (1) Introduction of provincial assessment system; (2) Number of teachers hired
on merit; (3) Regular monitoring of completion rates.

There has been satisfactory progress towards achieving this objective. Improving the
measurement of learning is an important part of any strategy to improve quality. SEDPC
facilitated the strengthening of PEACE as the agency with the primary responsibility for
evaluating learning quality across the province. A diagnostic assessment in class IV mathematics
was successfully administered by PEACE in academic year 2008/09 for more than 4,000
students. These results will be representative at the district level, the first time such data will be
collected in the country's history. In addition, PEACE has an ambitious but achievable schedule
of diagnostic assessments and associated reports over the next three years. These will establish
baseline and targets for improvements in learning quality throughout the province.

The approval of the policy for merit-based teacher recruitment, a prior action under SEDPC, has
been a significant step in improving teacher quality. Historically, appointment of teachers was
done irrespective of merit, often on referral or patronage basis. In the first round of teacher
recruitment, more than 5,800 teachers were recruited on merit, as validated by a TPV exercise.
Newly appointed teachers passed the entrance exam, and no teachers were appointed outside this
process after the policy approval date. The TPV also found lower rates of absenteeism among
contract teachers, with an absenteeism rate of 16 percent among new recruits compared to 21
percent among regular teachers. In addition to the enhanced quality of teachers, improvements in
the quality of learning facilities (discussed in PDO 1 and 2) also contributed to the overall
improvements of quality in elementary and secondary education

Lastly, improvements in the quality of the annual school census have translated to improved
ability to monitor completion rates. Early census administration showed a contrasting picture on
completion rates; which were high according the household survey data, yet much lower in the
2005/06 census. The administrative data showed a high dropout rates within primary, in particular
between class I and II. This discrepancy likely reflected a large number of children who register
for first grade but never attend for any meaningful length of time. The class I to II `dropout rate'
in the census decreased from 35 percent to 26 percent from 2005/06 to 2008/09, improving the
reliability of the census data in monitoring completion rates. According to these data, primary
completion rates2 increased from 35 percent to 49 percent from 2005/06 to 2008/09. In addition,
completion rates increased according to household data3 as well, from 90 percent in 2005/06 to 93
percent in the 2006/07. Completion and transition rates are considered proximate indicators of
quality. In addition to the improvements in completion rates, improvements in transition rates
from primary to secondary (discussed in PDO 1) provide further indication of improvements in
education quality.




2
  Primary completion rate is calculated as number of students in class V divided by number of students in class I. While
this definition likely over states the true completion rate as it does not subtract the number of repeaters in class V, data
on number of repeaters was not collected in 2005/06 census, so consistency of definition is used to match data
availability.

3
 Calculated using the PSLM data as the share of individuals aged 15-19 completing primary school, conditioned on
ever attending school. The difference in definitions accounts for the differences across the completion rate statistics.




                                                            13
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The achievement of the development outcomes is rated satisfactory, reflecting the substantial
achievement or progress towards achievement for most of the key performance indicators. While
some of the indicators have not fully achieved the targets, this assessment is limited to occur well
in advance of target completion date. Nevertheless, there has been substantial progress across
intermediate outcome indicators and PDOs, and in many cases achievement of targets well in
advance of projected completion dates. The substantial achievement in most of the key project
development outcomes has contributed to improvements in the access, equity and quality of the
education sector. In addition, the PDOs remained relevant throughout project implementation and
continue to remain relevant today. These achievements are expected to have long-term benefits of
positive impact on levels of human capital and economic development as the investments are
sustained.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Numerous elements of SERP, supported by SEDPC, are designed to improve equity across
regional and gender disparities. For example the incentive deliveries under SERP helped increase
enrollment by reducing the direct cost of schooling and providing incentives for households to
send their children to school. As a result, PDO 2, aimed at reducing gender and regional
disparities, was achieved (see section 3.2 for more detail). In addition, from 2006/07 to 2007/08,
the ratio of (i) female to male primary school NER increased from 77 percent to 84 percent; (ii)
rural to urban primary NER increased from 64 percent to 71 percent; and (iii) rural female to rural
male primary NER increased from 63 percent to 69 percent. Improvements in gender and regional
disparities are illustrated in Figure 1 below.

                   Figure 1: Gender and Regional Disparities have narrowed




(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Implementation of SEDPC has resulted in many significant institutional changes, thereby
strengthening capacity. Some of the most significant areas of improvement are listed below:
   i.   Fiscal sustainability and effectiveness of public expenditures have been improved
        through the approval of a Medium-Term fiscal framework and financial management and
        procurement reforms.
  ii.   Education department capacity has been strengthened through the formation of the RSU,
        which now is the primary implementing agency for policy formulation, monitoring and
        evaluation, donor coordination of many of the reform initiatives.


                                                14
 iii.   To address weak capacity at the district level, the EMR initiative was designed and
        approved on the basis of a review of roles, responsibilities and organization structure in
        education management. Implementation of this reform, targeting the introduction of a
        new education management structure, posts, job descriptions, training, district education
        development plans and quality assurance of schools, is underway.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
SERP implementation with the support of SEDPC contributed to an increased demand for Bank
support in Sindh, both in the education sector and outside. The Sindh Skills Development Project
is currently under preparation for the technical and vocational education and training sector in
Sindh. In addition, high-level dialogue has led to increased requests for technical assistance from
the Bank team in implementing sector programs that are outside of SERP. For example, the GoS
had engaged the Bank team for consultations on Early Childhood Development and School Based
Feeding programs, both in the education department's portfolio, but not part of the reform
agenda.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

There are a number of risks that could threaten the sustainability of the reform program, and
ultimately maintaining the progress and achievement of the PDOs. These include: (i) uncertainty
in political stability potentially contributing to waning/declining political commitment to the
reform program; (ii) capacity constraints, despite dramatic improvements to date; and (iii)
questions of national security that may limit Bank supervision and implementation support. There
are numerous mitigation measure that have been undertaken as part of both SEDPC and SEP,
notably: (i) intensive, high quality and continued dialogue between the Bank team and highest
levels of government; (ii) strong emphasis on continued capacity building for the implementation
of reform initiatives; and (iii) systematic third party validations and ability for video-conference
supervision in the event of restricted mission. Despite these mitigation measures, however, the
significant uncertainties justify the substantial rating of the risk to development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance for ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The Bank team
remained proactively engaged with the government on the program design, including policy
dialogue, reinforcing ownership and active participation while consulting various stakeholders,
from provincial to district government. In addition, the project design reflected lessons learned
from the Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit (SSAC), building on project experience. For
example, the dedicated M&E team in the RSU was established by merging the Research
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell of the education department initiated under SSAC with the
SEMIS to create a central authority responsible for data quality and credibility. In addition,
project objectives established at entry remained relevant through implementation and continue to


                                                15
be in line with country priorities because of sound design focused on addressing key poverty,
gender and social development aspects.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank's task team was composed of Human
Development, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Financial Management and
Procurement, and Social Assessment staff, complemented by international and national
consultants who contributed significantly. The cross sectoral support was exemplary, with
seamless integration of reforms across the various sectors in the project. The close collaboration
with the government during preparation and negotiation continued through implementation, and
ultimately the preparation of the SEP. In addition, strong donor coordination, notably with EC,
enabled better alignment of technical expertise and sources while reducing the reporting burden
for the government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team worked closely with the government, proactively engaged in design and
preparation of the project. Strong dialogue with key policy makers was maintained to ensure
quality during implementation. The team, consisting of staff from various sectors of the Bank,
maintained efficient supervision and monitoring of the program. The engagement and close
collaboration ensured a continued dialogue, resulting in the preparation of the SEP. The
consistency of the Bank's message, in the form of the Operation Policy Matrix and subsequent
DLI Matrix allowed for focused implementation between the approvals of the two projects.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
The government and implementing agency are the same so the discussion and rating are given
below in section (c).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The government showed high ownership and commitment to implement the project at all levels
and across departments. This was demonstrated by instituting crosscutting reforms, both in the
education sector and in public finance, and making considerable progress to improve service
delivery. Capacity issues were addressed with the creation of the RSU which played a key role in
developing policy, implementing reform programs and coordinating with donors. Monitoring and
evaluation systems were greatly strengthened with the launch of the revamped school census,
which provided quality and timely data that aided decision making and performance monitoring.
The Borrower ensured quality at preparation and implementation and complied with covenants
and agreements, ensuring progress toward the achievement of development objectives.




                                               16
6. Lessons Learned

Numerous lessons can be learned from the implementation of SERP, many of which were
included in the design of the SEP:

Strong political commitment and ownership are critical for successfully steering a sector-wide
program and for addressing governance constraints to effective service delivery. Many changes
required challenging historical expectations and vested interests. One example is the success in
implementing a merit-based teacher recruitment policy in Sindh, in a significant break from past
practice.

A sector program that combines sector-specific interventions with cross-cutting fiscal and
fiduciary interventions is more likely to yield results and to be sustained. It also contributes to
increased ownership of the sector program beyond the line department. A strong partnership
between key stakeholders  Planning and Development, Finance and Education Departments
(P&D, FD and ED respectively)  facilitated increased implementation momentum.

Complementary non-lending analytical and advisory support and sustained dialogue is essential.
Bank engagement at the highest political levels played a key role in supporting the new
government in implementing improvements in sector governance. At the same time, technical
inputs from Bank staff through, for example, analytical reports and a variety of just-in-time policy
and technical assistance notes supported design and implementation.

Given the educational context in Pakistan, it is important to simultaneously address the issues of
school access and quality. Experience shows that the quantity of education (enrolling in school)
is only one factor which affects the socio-economic prospects of individuals. The level of
learning (quality of education) is also a powerful determinant. It is likely that the simultaneous
focus in SERP on inputs and reforms to improve quality also improved access.

A good monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system that provides timely and reliable information is
essential. A well-designed and comprehensive M&E framework needs to be integrated into the
design of any sector-wide program. Establishment of baselines, followed by intensive
monitoring, and verification/triangulation from different data sources increases the credibility of
and accountability for results. The use of data in planning and monitoring itself helps focus
attention on the quality of monitoring data and on improving their reliability. A reliable and
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system can contribute to the political sustainability of
programs; it also facilitates mid-course program corrections and refinements.

Systematic communication can play a key role in ensuring wider understanding and ownership.
Strategic communications can increase understanding among the general public, media and civil
society, local communities as well as internal stakeholders such as teachers or other employees.
This involves two way communications and extensive consultations.

Focused and consistent messages in the government and World Bank dialogue can be critical to
ensuring continued implementation progress even after project preparation and approval.
Reforms detailed in Operational Policy Matrix provided guidance for implementation between
the approval of the SEDPC and SEP. While prior actions listed for year two and year three of the
DPC series were not ultimately used for disbursement (as the series was discontinued) the clarity
of these messages guided the government reform team, and ultimately were the basis for the SEP
DLI matrix year one targets.



                                                17
Changing instrument from DPC to SIC can be an effective way to retain the same focus on results
as provided in a DPC, while further providing enhanced focus on implementation outcomes and
on strengthening associated provincial systems through technical capacity building and
implementation support. The Bank team was effective in transitioning the support to SERP from
policy lending instrument to investment lending while continuously supporting the government's
program.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
See Annex 4 for the Borrower's own detailed ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                              18
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                     Title                               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Zahid Hasnain             Sr Public Sector Spec.              EASPR
Tahseen Sayed Khan        Operations Adviser                  SACBD
Bertha Mburugu            Program Assistant                   SASHD
Hanid Mukhtar             Senior Economist                    SASEP
Reema Nayar               Lead Economist                      SASED
Alan Norley               Consultant                          SASED
Uzma Sadaf                Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Sofia Shakil              Sr Education Spec.                  SASED
Supervision
Ismaila B. Ceesay         Lead Financial Management Spec      SARFM
Zahid Hasnain             Sr Public Sector Spec.              EASPR
Tahseen Sayed Khan        Operations Adviser                  SACBD
Hanid Mukhtar             Senior Economist                    SASEP
Reema Nayar               Lead Economist                      SASED
Alan Norley               Consultant                          SASED
Saeeda Sabah Rashid       Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
Uzma Sadaf                Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Sofia Shakil              Sr Education Spec.                  SASED



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                        USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                          83                       300.15
  FY08                                                                     0.69
Total:                                          83                       300.84
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                     0.30
  FY08                                          22                        78.41
Total:                                          22                        78.71




                                           19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                   21
       Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                Sindh Education Reform Program (SERP)

             SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT (SEDPC)


1. Program Objectives, Design and Implementation

       The Sindh Education Reform Program (SERP)  supported under World Bank's Sindh Education
       Sector Development Policy Credit (SEDPC) - was based on a programmatic series of three
       development policy credits aimed at supporting the implementation of a Medium Term Education
       Sector Reform Strategy (SERP, 2006), approved by Govt. of Sindh.

       The historical assessment suggested that the key critical challenges to poor outcomes of education
       sector in Sindh were mainly due to : (i) Inadequate resource allocation; (ii) low capacity in education
       managers at all levels; (iii) multiple constraints to increasing access and quality; and (iv) lack of
       strategic policy direction in teacher education and learning assessment.

1.1. Key Program Objectives

       Against the identified challenges, Sindh Education Reform Program determined its overarching
       objectives aimed at improving quality, equity and efficiency in education service delivery including an
       effort to improve accountability in the education sector. However, the specific objectives of the
       Reform Program were set to :

           - Improve participation, retention and transition;
           - Reduce gender and regional disparities; and
           - Improve quality in elementary and secondary education (grades 1-10).

           In order to achieve the program objectives, it was expected that the following key development
           indicators would help achieve program objectives :
i)         Increase net enrollment rates (NER) in primary, middle and secondary education from 48%, 18%
           and 12% in 2004/05 (baseline) to 59%, 22% and 14% respectively in 2009/10;
ii)        Increase the share of girls in primary and in middle schools in rural areas from 36% and 28% to
           40% and 31% respectively between 2005/06 (baseline) and 2009/10 ;
iii)       Increase the transition rate for rural girls between primary and middle school from 47% to 50%
           between 2005/06 (baseline) and 2009/10; and
iv)        Sustain and improve monitoring/evaluation system for data reliability and improve learning
           outcomes

1.2. Program Design

        The program design was conceived in such a way that it comprehensively included all reform
       activities and imitative including interdepartmental coordination within the four proposed pillars:

              Improving fiscal sustainability and the effectiveness of public expenditures
       This pillar focused on fiscal and budgetary management in order to create fiscal space for increase in
       education and poverty reducing expenditures in Sindh. It also included financial management and



                                                       22
   procurement reforms to increase credibility, transparency and accountability in the use of public
   resources.

           Improving education sector management
   The set of key policy and other activities targeted education sector management by strengthening the
   functioning, capacity and accountability for improving the service delivery at both provincial and
   district level in line with district devolution system introduced in Sindh (SLGO, 2001). The key other
   activities included providing incentives to district governments through terms of partnerships to
   improve service deliver. The role of school management committees was also brought into focus for
   institutional development and monitoring of school as a workable unit.

          Improving access to quality schooling
   In view of massive challenge of lagging indicators for rural areas especially for girls, the program
   endeavored to provide focus to rural areas by means of reforms to improve the quality and
   provision/utilization of physical infrastructure in schools. The aim was to help remove
   implementation bottlenecks and improve the effectiveness of incentive programs such as free
   textbooks and girls' stipends including by encouraging public private partnerships to improve access
   and quality of education.

          Improving the quality of teaching and learning
   Quality of teaching and learning was expected to be improved by introducing and implementing a
   merit-based recruitment. A comprehensive teacher education and development and student reforms
   were also focused. In addition, assessment of student learning outcomes was also targeted to identify
   areas of future intervention in terms of teacher trainings and curriculum development.

1.3. Expected Benefits:

    Additional benefits expected out of the program activities were as follows:

   - Sustained commitment by the government in accelerating progress towards poverty reduction
     objectives;
   - Revitalization of sustained engagement of the World Bank in support of the education sector
     reform agenda;
   - Effective development partners' coordination in education sector
   - Improvement in fiscal stability and effectiveness public resource management
  - Cross cutting governance reforms particularly in education


  1.4. Program Implementation and Operational Experience

       The program implementation has been a success as significant progress was achieved against
       target development objectives. All prior actions for each pillar for Year I as agreed to with the
       Bank under the Operational Policy Matrix of the program were completed in time making it
       possible for the Bank to approve and disburse the first tranche (SEDPC) for US $ 100.00 mil
       in support of the sector reforms. The SEDPC was intended to be the first of a programmatic
       series of three development policy credits in support of the government's medium-term reform
       program.

       The reform program was designed around four core pillars to improve quality, equity and
       efficiency for effective education service delivery, and to increase accountability in the
       education sector by introducing up-front governance reforms through cutting across


                                                    23
interventions. Annual Targets were laid down relating to each pillar within Operation Policy
Matrix which guided policy formulation and implementation within agreed time frame. This
helped keep the program on track throughout the year in spite of challenges to the program.
The program in Year 2 of SEDPC, got side tracked but it still continues to guide the
implementation in the form renegotiated Sindh Education Project (SEP)/DLI Matrix.

 1.4.1.   Performance under Reform Program Pillars

Pillar I: Improving fiscal sustainability and the effectiveness of public expenditures

Achievements:
    - Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF) for FY08-10;
    - Medium Term Sector policy Framework for education;
    - Financing Plan for Medium Term Sector Policy Framework;
    - Financial Management and Procurement Reforms accelerated;
    -   Department Accounts Committee were activated;
    - Target set for Resolution of audit observations for three years met ( 35% of the 7,679
       outstanding audits);
    -   A revised procurement law was passed in April 2008;

These actions helped in improving management of fiscal policy resulting into fiscal space for
enhanced spending in education sector.

Operational Experience:
MTFF was a new concept in Pakistan, particularly in Sindh. The Bank had the required
expertise to build the capacity of the Govt. of Sindh, to undertake such big task. Towards this
end, Finance Department played a key role in developing a required MTFF in consultation
with stakeholders.
During consultative process, the capacity constraint was identified as a major issue, which
needs to be tackled in future through a series of specific, specialized trainings/workshops for
stakeholders.

Departmental Audit Committees were revitalized through an executive order by the Chief
Secretary Sindh which was inactive at that time with thousands of audit observations/para
pending for resolution. The initiative with intense RSU/ELD follow up, the target was well
achieved. Previously monitoring and follow up was missing which played a key role in
achieving the target.

Close consultation was undertaken with Sindh Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
(SPPRA) with the RSU Steering Committee support. The government was aware of the
sensitivity of the issue in the wake of expiry of the life of the ordinance. The Bank's technical
assistance was well appreciated.

Pillar 2: Improve education sector management

Achievements:
  - Reform Support Unit (RSU), as an integral part of the Education Department established,
     overseen by RSU Steering Committee headed by the Chief Secretary Sindh;
 - Annual School Census improved and SEMIS data reliability enhanced;
  - Review of roles and responsibilities of education managers commenced (which later led
     to approval of Education Management Reforms Policy in 2009 by Govt. of Sindh);


                                             24
 -   Measures were undertaken to strengthen the roles of School Management Committees;

Operational Experience:
RSU continues to play a key role in steering the reform process. The Unit consisted of three
wings  Policy, SEMIS and Monitoring & Evaluation. Availability of competent staff at RSU
played a critical role in achievement of agreed actions under the program. However, in the
formative phase of RSU, it faced resource constraints.

RSU/SEMIS brought efficiencies in the Annual School Census process by improving
communication amongst key stakeholders both at provincial and district level. In addition,
capacity constraint was gradually removed by holding trainings/workshops for district officers
for enhancing their technical capacity for conducting school census at district level.
RSU/SEMIS team developed data base software. Majority of District Officers (SEMIS) posted
on merit.

Education Management Reforms was considered a massive challenge at this stage. However
RSU/ELD played a key role in initiating a dialogue for determining policy direction.
Discussions were held to review roles and responsibilities of the education managers in Sindh
in the light of the devolution system introduced in Sindh province. Later, in 2009 (SEP Y1
DLI) an Education Management Reforms Policy was approved by Govt. of Sindh for
undertaking piloting of management reforms in three selected districts  Dadu, Naushehro
feroze and Mirpurkhas.

School Management Committees faced a major challenge in terms of its revitalization mainly
due to government ban on release of funds.

Pillar 3: Improving access to quality schooling

Achievements:
 - Terms of Partnership (TOP) Agreements with all 23 district governments providing
     conditional grants ( Rs. 100 million per district per annum) for provision and
     improvement of school infrastructure;
 - Over four million students enrolled in public school provided free text books from Class
     I to X;
 - Approx. three hundred thousand girls students (Class VI-X) provided stipends

Operational Experience:
Terms of Partnership (TOP) agreement with district was used as an instrument for effective
partnership for implementation of Sindh Education Reform Program activities at district level.
For this purpose districts were offered conditional grants for undertaking School
Rehabilitation works. Towards this end, a consultative dialogue with districts was conducted
to agree on terms of the agreement.

Text book distribution mechanism was improved and monitoring strengthened to ensure
timely delivery of books before the start of the academic year. Improvement in delivery cycle
is consistently being strived for under SEP.

Girls' stipends delivery was revamped by ensuring delivery through customized money orders
in partnership with Pakistan Postal Offices. Major increase has consistently been recorded in
the number of beneficiaries over the years. Effective monitoring was also conducted.



                                            25
   Pillar 4: Improving the quality of teaching and learning

   Achievements:
    - Merit-based Teacher Recruitment Policy approved;
    - Over five thousand teachers recruited on merit during round one verified by TPV;
    - Provincial Education Assessment Center was strengthened;

Operational Experience:
Formulation of merit-based recruitment policy was a major challenge which demanded consensus
of criteria for merit determination for school specific appointments. Extensive consultation was
undertaken with political and bureaucratic leadership. Testing was conducted by third party and
no weight was given to interview. An intense third party validation exercised confirmed merit-
based recruitment. Under SEP, second round of the recruitment is well underway.

Provincial Education Assessment Center (PEACE) working under Bureau of Curriculum (BOC),
faced shortage of staff. New staff positions were created and capacity was enhanced through
trainings. Under SEP, the PEACE Sindh became the first institution in the country to have
developed and conducted its own diagnostic test (Class IV Math) for learning assessment of
students at district level. The test was administered to 40, 000 students across all districts of
Sindh.

2. Assessment of Outcomes

    2.1. Improving participation, retention and transition
PDO Indicators: (1) Net primary, middle and high school enrollment rates; (2)Share of girls in
primary and middle schools in rural areas; (3) Transition rate for girls in rural areas from
primary to secondary schools; and (4) Monitoring of learning assessments

Overall adequate progress was made under the key indicators as listed above. Positive growth
was recorded in most of the indicators. The progress was mainly supported by improving access
(TOP/School Rehabilitation), provision of new teachers (Merit-based Recruitment Round One),
delivery of girls stipends and distribution of free text books. The incentive programs helped
encourage new enrolment, reduce the drop outs and sustain transition. The recruitment of
meritorious teachers and their school specific posting would lead to improvement in learning
outcomes of students. In addition, the conduct of diagnostic assessments would lead to
improvement in curriculum and teacher trainings in future.

Resultantly net enrollment rate at primary level recorded positive growth from 48% in 2004/05 to
51% in 2007/08. Similarly net middle school enrollment rate recorded increase by 1% (from 17%
to 18%) and net enrollment rates in high school remained un-changed (11%).

In addition, the transition rates (rural Sindh) also recorded improvement from primary to
secondary school, from 54% to 56% from 2005/06 to 2008/09.

    2.2. Reducing gender and regional disparities
PDO Indicators: (1) Share of girls in primary schools in rural areas; (2) Share of girls in middle
schools in rural areas; (3) Transition rate for rural girls from class V to class VI.

Government of Sindh achieved satisfactory results. Owing to increased allocation of budgetary
resources as well as enhanced capacity implementation of initiatives met with success. .



                                               26
    2.3. Improving quality in elementary and secondary education
PDO Indicators: (1) Improvements in availability of timely and valid data; (2) Introduction of
provincial assessment system; (3) Number of teachers hired on merit; (4) Regular monitoring of
completion rates.

Process improvements contributed in Annual School Census contributed in achieving this
objective. As a result of revamping, effective monitoring and evaluation was introduced this
helped improve data accuracy, reliability and time lag.

Capacity of PEACE was enhanced by creation of new staff positions which contributed
immensely in timely administration of assessment testing. In addition to it, the approval of the
merit-based teacher recruitment policy by Government of Sindh, and consequent teacher
recruitment (round one) improved quality of teaching at schools.

   3. Performance of Government of Sindh

       The Government of Sindh showed strong political commitment, sustained support and
       ownership of the reform program. The Steering Committee headed by Chief Secretary
       Sindh continued to provide oversight of the program implementation regularly. Education
       Department however played a key role in coordinating with other departments for
       steering forward the reform activities in order to meet agreed prior actions. Reform
       Support Unit (RSU), the program management unit, and provided full back up support in
       coordinating and facilitating all stakeholders both at provincial and district level. The
       RSU also played a key role in development partner coordination under the program.

       The program implementation helped identify critical lessons which have been integrated
       under renegotiated Sindh Education Project (SEP) design. The critical lessons learnt
       which were key to successful program implementation are:

       i.      No reform program can be a success without strong political commitment and
               ownership;
       ii.     A well coordinated program laying out specific program interventions is more
               likely to yield sustainable results;
       iii.    Interdepartmental coordination through a high powered forum plays
               instrumental role in guiding and direction the program;
       iv.     Close, regular dialogue with all stakeholders is necessary to avoid delays in
               implementation;
       v.      Strong analytical work is essential for negotiations and policy formulation.
       vi.     An effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system utilizing services of both
               the third parties and project management unit ensure quality outputs;
       vii.    Effective communication with all stakeholders can enhance the efficiency of
               outputs; and
       viii.   Understanding of ground realities is more important in policy making and
               program implementation.

   4. Performance of the World Bank
      The World Bank Mission's performance remained satisfactory. The Bank provided
      continuous support and commitment to the Government of Sindh, in implementing the
      reform program.


                                              27
     Owing to effective monitoring and technical support at each stage of the program  from
     design to implementation  helped Sindh Government in achieving all prior action agreed
     under Operational Policy Matrix (Year 1).

     Govt. of Sindh acknowledged the positive, critical role played by Bank's Mission
     throughout the period of implementation.

     The critical lessons learnt in interacting with the Bank are described as follows:

             i.      Strong communication and periodic consultation between partners is the
                     most critical link for successful achievement of prior actions;
             ii.     Strong analytical home work is essential for negotiations with the Bank;
             iii.    Bank can be relied upon for providing technical support on program
                     design and policy formulation;
             iv.     Bank has the expertise to help evolve an effective monitoring and
                     evaluation (M&E) framework;
             v.      Ground realities needs to be consistently brought into focus while
                     interacting with the Bank.

5. Institutional Arrangement for Sustainability of Reform Program
Government of Sindh successfully renegotiated the financing of the ongoing reform program
after discontinuation of the SEDPC, under Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) financing (US $
300.00 million including US $ 6.00 million as TA, for the period 2008/09-2010-11) for Sindh
Education Project (SEP) which resulted in approval of the financing by the Bank Board in
June, 2009. The SEP is a specific investment credit providing for disbursements against
achievement of specific disbursement linked Indicators. Under the SEP, Government has
already achieved the release of the first tranche for US $ 108.8 mil which included technical
assistance for US $ 1.8 million.

The SEP incorporated the OPM actions from Year 2 onwards with enhanced focus on
implementation effectiveness. It also maintains strong commitment to the policy areas such as
Education Management Reforms, Teacher Education Development, SMC strengthening and
mobilization, Merit-based Teacher Recruitment (Round Two), Differential Stipends Program
along with regular girls stipends program, free text books distribution, terms of partnerships
with districts for provision of missing facilities at schools, learning assessments, and so on.

The Govt. of Sindh maintains the original oversight of the SEP through RSU Steering
Committee headed by the Chief Secretary Sindh. Reform Support Unit, as an integral part of
the Education Department, continues to provide project facilitation/implementation support
with professional, experienced and competent staff. Availability of WB TA ensures that
capacity and other constraints can also be removed in timely manner.

Finally, the reform program continues to enjoy the required sustained political and
bureaucratic commitment and ownership which is the pre requisite for successful
implementation. Both the Bank and the Govt. of Sindh regularly consult each other and
maintain strong, effective communication links.




                                            28
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    29
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Pakistan, Federal Bureau of Statistics (2008). Pakistan Social and Living
Standards Measurement Survey (PSLM) 2006/07.

Government of Pakistan, Federal Bureau of Statistics (2009). Pakistan Social and Living
Standards Measurement Survey (PSLM) 2007/08.

Government of Pakistan, Finance Division (2009). Pakistan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) 쵪I.

Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Finance (2003). Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
"Accelerating Growth and Reducing Poverty, The Road Ahead".

Government of Sindh (2009). Provincial Education Assessment Center (PEACE) PC-1.

Government of Sindh, Reform Support Unit (2009). Policy Document on Training and
Development.

Government of Sindh, Sindh Education Foundation (2008). Promotion of private schools in rural
areas of Sindh/urban slums (PPRS).

Government of Sindh, Sindh Evaluation and Monitoring Implementation System. Annual Public
School Census databases and dissemination reports from 2005/06-2008/09.

Government of Sindh, Finance Department. Sindh Medium Term Fiscal Framework 2009-10 to
2011-12.

World Bank (2006). Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY06-09, April 4, 2006
(Report No. 35718-PAK)

World Bank (2007). Program Document: First Sindh Education Sector Development Policy
Credit

World Bank (2009). Project Appraisal Document. Sindh Education Sector Project. 47642-PK

World Bank. Aide-Memories, Back-to-office reports, Management Letters, Project Status
Reports/Implementation Status and Results reports of all implementation review missions and
project preparation missions from May 2007-July 2009.




                                              30
      Annex 7. Operation Policy Matrix and DLI Matrix Comparison

      The following table demonstrates how the SERP reforms, results and institutional changes, supported by the SEP, build on and deepen the support
      provided under SEDPC. It also shows how performance benchmarks originally anticipated under year two of the DPC were achieved4, and in
      some cases surpassed by the achievements embodied in March 2009 DLIs in the SEP.

Issues (at launch of SERP in             SEDPC1 (June 2007)                      Experience and lessons                 SEP - Year 1 results (June 2009) and          Desired Year 3 (June 2011) results
2006/07)                                                                                                                relationship with SEDPC-II
                                                             1: IMPROVING FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
 Weak budgetary processes                First MTFF (FY08-FY10)                 MTFF not updated in FY08 for         MTFF process resumed and FY10-12              Gradual institutionalization of
  lacking strategic results focus          introducing medium-term results         FY09-FY11 due to tight time to         MTFF prepared based on new Chart of           results based budgeting through
 Provincial finances and therefore        focus, launching SERP and               prepare between appointment of         Accounts; integrating updated SERP and        annual preparation and
  adequate and predictable                 medium-term financing plan, and         new government and budget.             financing plan; and establishing fiscal       publication of MTBFs (for
  financing of education and pro-          establishing fiscal targets approved.  FY07 and FY08 budgets broadly in       targets for provincial own tax revenue        education and additional sectors)
  poor sectors vulnerable to               FY06/07 budget aligned with             line with MTFF targets, for            growth (10% per year), fiscal deficit         in budget documents and
  shortfalls in federal revenues           SERP.                                   provincial own source revenue (av.     (below 1.25%), and share of allocation of     preparation of annual budgets
  transfers, and lack of discipline in                                             annual growth of 13.9%), PRSP          development budget to existing schemes        consistent with MTFF;
  development spending.                                                            expenditures (av. annual growth of     (70-75%)                                     Annual financing of SERP as per
                                                                                   16%) and consolidated fiscal                                                         updated results based strategy and
                                                                                   deficit below 0.6% of GDP) and                                                       financing plan
                                                                                   over 75% of ADP allocated to                                                        Achievement of fiscal targets in
                                                                                   ongoing schemes.                    REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF RESULTS AS               MTFF/MTBF.
                                                                                  FY08 and FY09 budgets were          INTENDED FOR SEDPC-II
                                                                                   aligned with SERP
                                                                                  FY09 budget prepared by new
                                                                                   government reflects increase in
                                                                                   provincial own tax revenue and
                                                                                   education expenditures but
                                                                                   allocated less than 50% of ADP to
                                                                                   new schemes.
 Large number of advance audit           Issuance of directive to reduce        Significant reduction of audit       Reduction of over 40% of advance audit        Annual reduction of 60% of
  paragraphs in the education              `advance' audit paragraphs in the       paragraphs in the education sector,    paragraphs compared to 2005/06 baseline       residual audit paragraphs
  sector reflect poor internal audit       education sector                        but large number of audit                                                            (following last in-first out
  controls and financial                                                           paragraphs continue to be           SURPASSES SEDPC-II AND SEDPC-III RESULTS         approach) through improved
  accountability                                                                   generated each year.                TARGETS.                                         internal controls and
                                                                                                                                                                        preventative/systemic actions
 Deficiencies in provincial (and         Procurement reform roadmap             Government continued with             New procurement law approved by              Procurement law enacted and
  education sector) procurement            prepared covering regulatory,           implementation of procurement          parliament.                                   defines procurement regulatory
  environment; no institutional            institutional and capacity aspects.     road map; SPPRA resourced and         SPPRA approved revised rules;                 framework for province
  home for procurement nor an             SPPRA established (by ordinance)        capacity strengthened. Draft          GoS updated CSR and issued notification      Revised rules, SBDs and

      4
       SEDPC-II targets were originally intended to be achieved by June 2008; however the political changes and security considerations have contributed to a longer implementation
      period. See the final paragraph of Section 2.2 for further details.




                                                                                                      1
Issues (at launch of SERP in           SEDPC1 (June 2007)                           Experience and lessons                    SEP - Year 1 results (June 2009) and             Desired Year 3 (June 2011) results
2006/07)                                                                                                                      relationship with SEDPC-II
   updated strategy for reform;           and Federal PPRA rules adopted               procurement legislation and SBD           for periodic update of CSR to market rates.     implementing regulations in place
   Composite Schedule of Rates            under interim arrangements and               for goods works and services                                                              and in use
   reflects historical (2004) costs.      pre-registration of bidders for              (consistent with international best    REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF RESULTS AS                Province-wide procurement
                                          works procurement abolished                  practice) prepared.                    INTENDED FOR SEDPC-II                              monitoring system functional
                                                                                                                                                                                Semi-annual/quarterly updates of
                                                                                                                                                                                 CSR implemented
 Inefficient procurement practices     Provisions made for third party             Contracting for third party to           Third Party contracted and will carry out       Improved procurement practices
  and inadequate supervision of          supervision and ex-post review of            supervise construction                    construction supervision and ex-post             by districts, improved school
  education civil works                  schools                                      rehabilitation works and to carry         procurement reviews. It will also verify         siting and water quality in high
  procurement by districts                                                            out ex post procurement review has        priority lists from districts, carry out         risk areas, improved safety and
                                                                                      taken time and its need has been          inspection of schools in high risk areas,        quality of design and
                                                                                      confirmed by the experience of            prepare school siting guidelines, prepare        construction.
                                                                                      rehabilitation works under TOP1.          model designs for cost effective,
                                                                                      Concerns include inadequate               appealing, structurally safe and energy
                                                                                      selection of rehabilitation works on      efficient schools, provide construction
                                                                                      the basis of needs; inadequate            supervision and quality control, monitor
                                                                                      attention to risks from natural           compliance with guidelines for school
                                                                                      disasters or water quality, to school     siting and design and water quality
                                                                                      design and construction as well as        monitoring, certify compliance with ESMF
                                                                                      inefficient procurement practices.
                                                                                                                    SURPASSES SEDPC-II TARGETS DUE TO
                                                                                                                    ENHANCED FOCUS ON SAFEGUARD AND
                                                                                                                    SCHOOL DESIGN ISSUES
                                                                              II:   IMPROVING EDUCATION SECTOR MANAGEMENT
 Weak provincial capacity for          Reform Support Unit established in          Insufficient capacity of Reform          RSU capacity strengthened to adequately         Improved provincial capacity for
  monitoring and evaluation of           ED with responsibility for                   Support Unit has been a constraint        carry out its role in monitoring,                monitoring and evaluation of
  outputs, outcomes and programs         monitoring and evaluation,                   in monitoring and design of               implementation and policy formulation (as        outputs, outcomes and programs.
 Lack of timely, comprehensive,         evidence-based policy formulation,           programs and adequate                     well as main implementing agency for            Improved timeliness, reliability,
  reliable information; weak             coordination of reform efforts and           implementation and monitoring of          SEP.)                                            adequacy, dissemination and use
 Policy formulation not evidence-       partner assistance, and                      provincial incentive programs.           ACS 2008/09 implemented with use of              of data in the ACS for education
  based                                  implementation of provincial                Issues remain with regard to              improved standardized processes for data         sector monitoring and policy
                                         incentive programs                           coverage of schools, reliability of       collection, entry and verification, and          formulation through annual
                                        Annual Census of Schools                     data, speed and timeliness of data        results available within 3-4 months.             improvements.
                                         implemented with improvements in             availability, use of data for mid-
                                         coverage of information and                  course corrections and decision         NEW RESULTS TARGETS DEFINED BASED ON
                                         improved quality control                     making                                  IMPLEMENTATION LESSONS (NOT IN SEDPC-II)
                                         procedures
 Weak district education                                                                                                      New district education management               Implementation of new education
  management capacity for school                                                                                                reform (EMR) policy prepared and                 management cadre in a few
  inspection and advice/support                                                                                                 submitted for approval sets out principles       districts with clearly defined job
 Lack of clarity in roles and                                                                                                  guiding entry and progressive development        descriptions and responsibilities
  responsibilities;                                                                                                             along a career path and envisions gradual        for each post, training and revised
 Principles for entry and career                                                                                               introduction of new education                    procedures for performance
  path in education management                                                                                                  management cadre                                 appraisal
  not articulated                                                                                                                                                               Inspection and advice/support
 Managers lack education                                                                                                     [REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF RESULTS AS                system designed and
  management and leadership                                                                                                   INTENDED FOR SEDPC II]                             implemented in a few districts




                                                                                                          2
Issues (at launch of SERP in            SEDPC1 (June 2007)                          Experience and lessons                    SEP - Year 1 results (June 2009) and               Desired Year 3 (June 2011) results
2006/07)                                                                                                                      relationship with SEDPC-II
   skills; no system for training,
   induction or professional
   development.
 Politically motivated postings,
   transfers and promotions based
   on seniority

 Poor quality of school                 Funds provided to all district             Rehabilitation grants used for the       TOP II agreements signed and 30% of               Annual transfer of funds to
  infrastructure in all districts         governments for school                      construction of shelter, provision of     funds transferred to districts based on            districts for school rehabilitation
 Irregular or limited funding for        rehabilitation works conditional on         missing facilities, and additional        performance against TOP I indicators.              works with higher share based on
  school rehabilitation                   entering performance agreements             classrooms                               TOP II indicators include completion of            performance contributing to
 No incentives for needs based           (TOP1).                                    Issues remain with selection of           works as per vetted priority lists, indicators     increased availability and use of
  provision of good quality school                                                    priority works, and with                  of school improvement and contracts                minimum school infrastructure
  infrastructure by districts;                                                        construction quality and timely           require compliance with safeguard and              and improved school environment
  political interference in selection                                                 completion (see also I above)             procurement considerations
  of rehabilitation works
                                                                                                                              REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF RESULTS AS
                                                                                                                              INTENDED FOR SEDPC II


 Weak management at school              New guidelines provided to                 Lack of sustained effort to ensure       SMC database prepared/completed                   Implementation of pilot SMC
  level                                   establish SMCs in middle and                effective involvement of SMCs in          including bank account information                 community mobilization and SIP
 Limited community participation         secondary schools                           school management                        Issuance of updated guidelines for SMCs            capacity building program as per
 No formal SMCs in middle and                                                                                                  with enhanced discussion of fiduciary              agreed program and impact
  secondary schools                                                                                                             requirements                                       evaluation parameters
 Irregular funding to SMCs and                                                                                                Awareness raising workshops completed
  uneven implementation of                                                                                                      to disseminate guidelines
  capacity building programs for                                                                                               Development of a pilot program (and
  SMCs                                                                                                                          evaluation design) for SMC community
                                                                                                                                mobilization and capacity building in
                                                                                                                                school improvement planning (SIP)

                                                                                                                              [REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF RESULTS AS
                                                                                                                              INTENDED FOR SEDPC-II]
                                                                                  III: IMPROVING ACCESS TO QUALITY SCHOOLING
 Incentives programs for public         Delivery mechanisms for both               Stipends delivered in following        Textbooks delivered to at least 90% of              Sustained/improved delivery
  school children (girls' stipends        programs streamlined: role of                 academic year and timing of           public primary, middle, and high schools             performance of both programs
  and textbooks) provision had            district management in delivery               delivery within year variable         within the first month of the 2008-09               Improved monitoring systems and
  limited impact due to serious           eliminated.                                   reducing desired incentive impact     academic year                                        controls for both programs enable
  problems with delivery                 RSU/ED works with STBB for                 Delivery performance difficult to      Stipends for two academic years delivered            administrative verification within
 Girls' stipends were either not         distribution directly to sub-district         sustain due to delays and             in 2008/09 to eliminate lag and 2008-09              weeks of delivery.
  received at all, received with          levels from where they are collected          incompleteness in vital               academic year cash stipends successfully            Administrative monitoring
  serious delays, or in significantly     by headteachers.                              administrative data from districts,   delivered to at least 90% of intended                complemented by third party
  reduced amounts                        RSU/ED works directly with GPO                continued deficiencies in             beneficiaries in all districts before the            verification
 Textbooks reached with delays           for stipends delivery to girls                monitoring                            close of the 2008-09 academic year.                 Roll out of differential stipends
  and shortfalls relative to needs       For the first time, about 90% of           Controls to ensure full delivery to    Differential stipends program providing              program as per agreed program
 Weak monitoring and insufficient        textbooks were delivered within the           final beneficiaries need to be        higher stipends amount to districts with             and impact evaluation parameters
  controls for both programs              first month of the school year                further strengthened                  low girls' transition rates designed and            Launch of reforms to introduce




                                                                                                          3
Issues (at launch of SERP in            SEDPC1 (June 2007)                       Experience and lessons                   SEP - Year 1 results (June 2009) and             Desired Year 3 (June 2011) results
2006/07)                                                                                                                  relationship with SEDPC-II
 Need for stronger incentives for       For the first time, about 80% of                                                   introduced.                                      competitive practices in textbook
   rural girls                            beneficiaries receive the full                                                   Improvements in administrative                    development and
 Poor (physical and curricular)          amount of the stipend.                                                             monitoring; TOP II includes indicators for       printing/publishing.
   quality of textbooks due to                                                                                               district compliance with monitoring
   limited competition in textbook                                                                                           requirements of the programs
   development and printing
   publishing                                                                                                             REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF RESULTS AS
                                                                                                                          INTENDED FOR SEDPC-II WITH SUSTAINED
                                                                                                                          EMPHASIS ON DELIVERY AND MONITORING
                                                                                                                          PERFORMANCE; INTRODUCTION OF DSP AHEAD
                                                                                                                          OF SCHEDULE SURPASSES SEDPC-II TARGETS
 Limited mobilization of private                                                 Innovative medium scale PPP             Launch of a new PPP program that                Roll out of PPP program in up to
  sector in rural Sindh                                                            program designed which would be          provides a per student subsidy to private        1000 schools as per agreed
 SEF has responsibility for PPPs                                                  facilitated by acceleration of SEF       entrepreneurs for each child they enroll in      program and impact evaluation
  but has traditionally engaged in                                                 autonomy reforms.                        underserved rural areas                          parameters
  small scale partnerships;                                                                                                SEF autonomy principles approved by the         SEF fully functional as an
  effectiveness in implementing                                                                                             Chief Minister                                   autonomous institution
  larger scale PPPs requires                                                                                                                                                 responsible for PPPs in the
  institutional autonomy                                                                                                  [SURPASSES SEDPC-II RESULTS TARGETS DUE            province
                                                                                                                          TO APPROVAL OF AUTONOMY PRINCIPLES]

                                                                           IV: IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF TEACHING AND LEARNING
 Patronage based recruitment has        A new policy for recruitment of          Pressures for deviating from this      Bank due diligence reveals that first round     Gradual institutionalization of
  been serious issue, compromising        teachers using transparent merit-         policy elevated especially in the        of recruitment under the new policy has         merit-based recruitment through
  quality and presence of teachers        based criteria (including a test          run-up to the elections. Several         been carried out without significant            multiple rounds of successful
  and contributing to politically         administered by an independent            districts initiated recruitment using    deviations; this is being validated by a        implementation of policy
  motivated postings/transfers            institution) and their placement          high weight for interviews in            third party                                    Gradual introduction of new
 Posting of teachers not                 under school-specific contracts           contradiction to the specifications    Second round of recruitment initiated with       teacher standards and
  adequately based on needs; large        approved.                                 of the policy.                           improved dissemination of recruitment           competencies into teacher
  differences in student teacher                                                   New government did not support           criteria, introduction of pedagogical           recruitment tests
  ratios between schools                                                            these decisions, recruitment in          competencies in the test, and assessment of    Posting of teachers on school
  exacerbated by political                                                          contravention of policy stood            needs based on ASC to give priority in          based contracts in schools with
  interference in transfer/postings                                                 cancelled and revised guidelines         placement to schools with higher student        greater needs reduces teacher
 Concerns with quality and                                                         issued eliminating weight to             teacher ratios                                  shortages
  integrity institutions certifying                                                 interviews                             TOP II agreements include indicators for        Together these contribute to
  potential teachers limit usefulness                                              Inadequate use of evidence in            number of schools achieving target student      improved quality of newly
  of relying on these.                                                              determination of vacancies meant         teacher ratios                                  recruited teachers and improved
                                                                                    that schools with high student                                                           teacher and student attendance
                                                                                    teacher ratio did not uniformly       REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF SEDPCII RESULTS
                                                                                    receive higher priority               TARGETS




                                                                                                       4
Issues (at launch of SERP in             SEDPC1 (June 2007)   Experience and lessons   SEP - Year 1 results (June 2009) and          Desired Year 3 (June 2011) results
2006/07)                                                                               relationship with SEDPC-II
 Limited impact of teacher                                                             Comprehensive TED policy and                 New standards and competencies
   education and development                                                              implementation road map developed and        adopted and in use in pilot CPD
   (TED) programs                                                                         approved which envisions coherent system     program
 Lack of standards and                                                                   for ITE and CPD.                            Institutional focal point
   competencies for the                                                                                                                established for strategic oversight,
   appointment, training,                                                                                                              accreditation and quality
   professional development of                                                                                                         assurance
   teachers                                                                                                                           Roles of BoC and PITE redefined
 No coherent policy for TED                                                                                                           with PITE responsible for
 Unsystematic and unregulated                                                                                                         operational management of all
   provision of CPD not based on                                                                                                       TED institutions
   systematic needs assessment and                                                                                                    Accreditation and quality
   predominantly used to                                                                                                               assurance evaluation of agreed
   compensate for poor quality ITE                                                     REFLECTS ACHIEVEMENT OF SEDPC-II RESULTS        number of CPD providers.
 Disparate and overlapping                                                            TARGETS                                        New teaching diploma introduced
   provision (by BoC and PITE) and                                                                                                     based on new standards and
   inconsistent quality of ITE                                                                                                         competencies for certification of
 Lack of professional oversight,                                                                                                      future teachers
   policy feedback, quality
   assurance and effective
   coordination of TED
 Lack of support and opportunity
   for teachers' professional
   development

 Poor student learning outcomes                                                        First provincial learning assessment         Implementation, analysis and
 NEAS provides information on                                                           implemented with district-representative      dissemination of findings of
  learning outcomes at provincial                                                        sample for grade 4 mathematics                provincial learning assessment in
  level but no reliable information                                                     New assessment is diagnostic  designed       three subjects in grade 4 and one
  on learning outcomes at more                                                           to provide information on specific            in grade 8
  disaggregated level (e.g. districts)                                                   difficulties within subject areas using      Improved summative assessments
 Teachers lack requisite training                                                       NEAS findings on curricular areas of poor     in grade 4 mathematics and
  and tools for classroom                                                                performance in Sindh.                         language in use in a sample of
  assessment and adaption of                                                                                                           schools
  teaching practices                                                                   [SURPASSES SEDPC-II RESULTS TARGETS,
 Information on learning                                                              ACHIEVING SEDPC-III RESULTS TARGETS]
  outcomes not adequately
  disseminated to stakeholders and
  not used to improve teaching and
  learning




                                                                                 5
                                                       60                                                65                                                           70                               TAJIKISTAN                           75


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHINA
                                                                          PAKISTAN
                                              SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR                                                                                                                                                      R.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                             DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT




                                                                                                                                                                                                  na
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gilgit
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chitral                                                         Indu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R.
                                                                          PROJECT PROVINCE

                                                                          SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                              N.W.F.P.
                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                35                                                                                                                                                                                      Mardan
                                                                          RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                  Approximate                            35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Line of Control
                                                                          RIVERS                                                                                                        Peshawar
                                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                        Kahat                                                 ISLAMABAD                          JAMMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rawalpindi                                                    and KASHMIR
                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                          Bannu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jhelum
                                                      0             100            200          300 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                     Mianwali     Khushab                      R.           Gujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sialkot
                                                      0            50            100          150          200 MILES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sargodha                   Gujranwala


                                                                                                                                                                                                    J h e lu m
                                                                                                                                                                          D.I.Khan

                                                                                                                                                                                         Bhakkar                                               Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jhana
                                                                     AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                      Faisalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R.                     Kasur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i
                                                                                                                                      Zhob                                                PUNJAB                          R          av
                                                                                                                                                           R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sahiwal

                30                                                                                                                                                           D.G.
                                                                                                                          Quetta
                                                                                                                                                                              Khan              Multan                              R.                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tle                      Bahawalnagar
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Su
                                                                                                                                      Sibi

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bahawalpur
                                                                                                                 Kalat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I N D I A
                                                                                         BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                               Rahimyar Khan


                      ISLAMIC REP.
                                                                                                                                                            R.




                                                                                                                 Khuzdar
                                                                                                                                         Sukkur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75
                                                                                                                                               s




                                                                                                                                                                Rohri
                                                                                                                                             du




                           OF IRAN
                                                                                                                                                     Canal
                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                                                            Larkana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UZBEK.
                                                                                                   .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     65                       70           TAJIKISTAN               75
                                                                                                lR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TAJIK.                                          CHINA
                                                                              Panjgur
                                                                                               Na




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                                           Dokri
                                                                                                                                                  N a ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                   35                                                                                                         35
                25                                                                                       Bela                                 Nawabshah                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                렁 렁  렁
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              렁렁
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.W.F.P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Approx. Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       렁




                                                                                                                                                                                          25                                                                                          렁
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAMMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      렁




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Islamabad                    AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          렁




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KASHMIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 




                                                                                                                                                           SINDH
                                                                                                                            Hyderabad
                                                 Gwadar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                   30                                                                                                         30

                                                                                                           Karachi                    Thatta
                                                                                                                                                           Badin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PAKISTAN
                                                             ARABIAN            SEA                                                                                                                ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP. OF                                                                          I N D I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                     IRAN

                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
DECEMBER 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SINDH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 35451R




                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                 Mouths of                                                                 25                                                                                                         25
                      judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                               the Indus
                      acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Arabian                Sea
                                       60                                                          65                                                                 70                                                         65                          70                                        75
