Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14984
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
REFINERY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2802-UR)
SEPTEMBER 18, 1995
Infrastructure & Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uruguayan New Peso (N$)
Average Annual
Rates of Exchange
1986: US$1.00 = N$ 0.1520
1987: US$1.00 = N$ 0.2267
1988: US$1.00 = N$ 0.3594
1989: US$1.00 = N$ 0.6055
1990: US$1.00 = N$ 1.1710
1991: US$1.00 = N$ 2.0188
1992: US$1.00 = N$ 3.0270
1993: US$1.00 = N$ 3.9484
1994: US$1.00 = N$ 5.0453
Wholesale Price Index
1986:   10.8
1987:   17.7
1988:   27.8
1989:   48.2
1990:  100.0
1991:  187.6
1992:  297.0
1993:  396.1
1994:  573.3
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric ton (ton, t) = 1000 kilogram (kg) = 2204 Pounds (lb)
1 Kilometer (km)        = 0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)          = 2.47 Acres
1 Cubic Meter, liquid measure (m3) = 6.3 Barrels (bbl)
GLOSSARY TO ACRONYMS
ANCAP                 Administracion Nacional de Combustibles,
Alcohol y Portland (state oil monopoly)
BPSD                  Barrels per day
ESW                   Economic Sector Work
FCC                   Fluid Catalytic Cracking
OPP          =        Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto
(Office of Planning and Budget)
MERCOSUR              Mercado Commun del Sur
(Common Market of the South)
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SOE          =        Statement of Expenses



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
REFINERY MODERNIZATION PROJECT (LOAN 2802-UR)
Table of Contents
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ii
PART I: FINDINGS AND LESSONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
A. Background .1..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
B. Project Objectives and Definition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
E. Project Sustainability ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    8
F. Bank Performance ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    8
G. Borrower Performance .9..  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    9
H. Performance of Consultants and General Contractor .  . . . . . .    9
I. Follow-on Projects .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
J. Assessment of Outcome. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
K. Key Lessons Learned. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Appendix 1: Comments of the Consultant re the Feasibility Study.              11
Appendix 2: Comments of the Borrower on Part 1. . . . . . . . . . .   12
Appendix 3: Comments of the Guarantor on Part 1.   . . . . . . . . .   14
PART II:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Note: Normally, ICRs include a table comparing actual and forecast indicators
for project operation. Since no such indicators were defined in any of the
loan documents, this report includes no table of comparative indicators.
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2.  Bank Loans for Energy Projects in Uruguay   . . . . . . .   17
Table 3.  Project Timetable ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .              ..  ..    .    19
Table 4a. Cumulative Loan Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Table 4b. Disbursements by Category: Actual, Revised, Original  . .   20
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation . . . . . . . .   21
Table 6.  Studies Included in Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Table 7a. Project Cost: Forecast, Revised, and Actual . . . . . . .   23
Table 7b. Project Financing: Forecast, Revised, and Actual .  . .             23
Table 8.  Compliance with Major Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Table 9.  Economic Justification:
Equalizing Discount Rate  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   28
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Table 11. Bank Missions .30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
URUGUAY
REFINERY MODERNIZATION PROJECT (LOAN 2802-UR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Refinery
Modernization Project in Uruguay, for which Loan 2802-UR in the amount of US$24.4
million equivalent was approved on April 28, 1987 and made effective on December
1, 1987.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994 as compared with the original
Closing Date of January 31, 1992, and the last disbursement was on January 5,
1995. The Borrower, the Administracion de Combustibles, Alcohol, y Portland
(ANCAP), provided counterpart financing.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Andrew Waldrop, LAlIU, under the supervision
of Mr. Armando Araujo, Task Manager, LAlIU. and was reviewed by Mr. Alfonso
Sanchez, formerly Chief, LAlIN, and by Mr. Orville Grimes, Project Adviser,
LA1DR. Mr. Asif Faiz, Chief, LAlIU, authorized released of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/
completion mission, October 18 to 25, 1994.   It is based on material in the
project file.
The Borrower, the Government, and a consultant supplied comments on the
draft ICR. These are set forth in the appendices to Part I of the report.






ii
Evaluation Summary
REFINERY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2802-UR)
URUGUAY
Background
Energy Loans to Uruguay. Since 1979, the Bank has made one petroleum loan
(2802-UR, US$24.4 million, 1987) and four electric loans (totalling US$135.7
million) to Uruguay. Two electric loans, 2622-UR (US$45.2 million, 1985) and
3221-UR  (US$62.5 million,  1990),  are still being disbursed.   The projects
financed by the other three loans were completed and their objectives were
substantially achieved, notwithstanding delays and cost and time increases.
Borrower.    The  Borrower  of  Loan  2802-UR  is  the Administracion  de
Combustibles, Alcohol, y Portland (ANCAP), the state oil monopoly which operates
the only refinery in Uruguay. Besides its refining and commercial functions,
ANCAP plays an important fiscal role: its tax collections on petroleum products
are a major source of Government revenue (para. 1).
Project Preparation. It is convenient to think of project preparation as
being carried out in two phases. Phase I covers the period 1985 to 1987 and
includes the activities normal to project preparation and loan processing. On
March 27, 1991, more than three years after Loan 2802-UR was declared effective
(December 1, 1987), the Bank, at the request of ANCAP, completely redefined Part
A (Refinery Conversion) of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement (Project Definition).
Phase II covers the period 1988-1990 and includes the activities related to
project redefinition and the discussions of supplementary financing (para. 2).
Phase I, 1985-1987
Project Objectives,  Scope, Justification,  and Approach.   The project
objective was to reduce the overall economic cost of supply of petroleum products
in Uruguay to levels comparable to international prices (para. 3). This impor-
tant objective was compatible with national energy and development policies, and
was consistent with the Bank's lending strategy (para. 4).
Besides improving refinery efficiency, Part A aimed at providing a closer
match between supply and demand, particularly with respect to the range of
refined products. It consisted of the: modification of existing facilities by
installing new, efficient equipment in place of old, obsolete equipment; conver-
sion of technology; and introduction of modern controls. Part B consisted of
studies to correct the inefficiencies resulting from a matrix of institutional
policies and practices. In recent years, the Bank has restructured its operations
to "delink" investment lending and sector issues. The latter are to be addressed
as part of the program of Sector Economic Work (ESW)  (para. 5).  Part A was
judged to be least-cost as compared to the options of relying on imported
products or operating the refinery without the project (para. 13). Except for
a timetable to complete and implement the pricing study, there were no special
covenants to accomplish the project objectives.
Instead of expanding capacity, the original project approach was to remove
operational "bottlenecks", i.e., partial modernization through equipment replace-
ment. Underlying this approach were a positive assessment of the physical state



iii
and useability of existing facilities and a slow-growth demand forecast. Partial
modernization would accomplish the project objective at minimum cost, US$28.2
million, and was compatible with the Government's objectives of minimizing
deferrable capital investments and of conserving resources to meet debt service
obligations (para. 6).
Phase II, 1988-1990
Project Scope Redefined.  The redefined Part A consisted of increasing
refining capacity by reconstructing the atmospheric distillation unit Topping III
(from 30,000 BSPD to 37,000 BSPD) and the fluid catalytic cracking unit (from
8,700 BSPD to 8,900 BSPD) based on a new technology, and adding components to
diminish environmental contamination and reduce operating costs (para. 8). The
redefinition was required because of the deteriorated state of existing facili-
ties and because of an unexpected surge in petroleum demand (para. 9).  The
revised cost estimate was US$62.9 million.
Privatization. In 1990, ANCAP sought supplementary Bank financing for the
redefined project to help meet the higher cost estimate. After extended internal
consideration, the Bank declined to provide any additional funds on the grounds
that ANCAP was a suitable candidate for privatization-type initiatives. For its
part, the Government was not ready to consider altering the status of ANCAP as
a state-owned company or to dispense with its tax gathering services. The Bank
also justified its decision on the grounds that ANCAP had enough internal
financial resources to finish the project (para. 32).
Implementation EXperience and Results
Part A. The revamped refinery resumed operations in February/March 1995.
Resumption means (or should mean) the substantial achievement of the project
objective of reducing the overall economic cost of supply of petroleum products
in Uruguay to levels comparable to international prices. To determine reliably
the level of benefits will probably require operation of the refinery during a
"shake-down" or test period (para. 10) . The redefined project was economically
justified based on a least-cost calculation; no estimate of the internal rate of
return was prepared.  Based on actual cost data and expected lower operating
costs, the project is still least-cost. No internal rate-of-return has been pre-
pared using actual data (paras. 14 & 15). As ANCAP and the Government understand
the importance of the refinery to the economy, it is reasonable to expect that
they will ensure the sustained achievement of the project objective (para. 28).
This positive assessment of Part A notwithstanding, a prudent and conservative
approach ought to prevail in rating the overall outcome of the project.   As
compared with the appraisal fore-casts, the project experienced significant time
and cost increases; hence, the overall outcome of the project should only be
rated as satisfactory (para. 39).
Part B. Achievements with respect to the studies under Part B range from
substantial (if problematic) to partial to validation of existing systems (paras.
11-12 and 22-27). For example, the value of the study of control systems will
depend on how well the new controls respond under normal operating conditions,
but ANCAP is expected to ensure their full and effective operation. Achievements
with respect to the studies of the financial systems are partial.   The Bank
accepted the findings of the price reform study which validated ANCAP' s existing
policies and practices with respect to imports (procuring crude oil) and pricing;
the study did not recommend price deregulation.



iv
Scope, Cost and Timetable: Completed and Redefined. Due to the addition
of works--including construction of a substation and transmission line linking
the power facilities of the refinery with those of the national power company--
the scope of the completed project was increased over that of the redefined
project. Nevertheless the scopes of the completed and redefined projects remain
comparable, as are their costs and timetables (paras. 16-20).
Stated in current prices, reflecting current rates of exchange, and exclud-
ing interest during construction, the final project cost was US$95.8 million as
compared with the revised cost of US$62.9 million--an increase of US$32.9 million
(or +52.4%). The cost increase breaks down as follows: construction, US$29.9
million; all other factors, US$3.0 million.  However, the magnitude of these
figures may be misleading. If actual construction expenditures (US$41.5 million)
are restated in average 1989 prices and are further adjusted for appreciation in
the real rate of exchange, the cost of construction amounts to US$15.6 million
or US$5.0 more than the expected base price plus physical contingency (US$10.6
million). Most, if not all of the US$5.0 million, was due to increases in the
scope of the project (including a new substation and transmission line to
interconnect the electric power facilities of the refinery with those of the
national power company).
The actual project completion date was February 1995; the revised date,
June-July 1994; the original date, June 1991. The revised date reflected the
impact of Phase II. The final date reflected the impact of strikes and other
delays normal  to civil  construction.    ANCAP alleges  that  the  contractor
contributed to late project completion by not reacting promptly and strongly to
counter adverse developments (para. 21). The Bank has not been able to confirm
this allegation (paras. 37).
Performance of the Borrower and the Bank
Phase I. For budgetary reasons, ANCAP reduced the scope of the consul-
tants' work on the feasibility study by deleting a review or report on the condi-
tion of the existing refinery facilities and substituting its own data; and the
Bank did not object to this arrangement. The deletion of this review was a major
contributing cause to the subsequent redefinition of the project. If the review
had been included, it is exceedingly unlikely that its findings would have led
to the adoption of the original project approach (para. 7). The fact of redefi-
nition suggests strongly that during project preparation ANCAP was, with Bank
acquiescence, "penny wise and pound foolish"; hence, their performances in this
respect should be rated unsatisfactory during Phase I (paras. 29 & 35).
On the basis of the feasibility study, the Bank appraised the project in
September 1986. Subsequently, events showed that the original project approach
was inappropriate.  At the time of appraisal, it was common Bank practice to
appraise before completing the preparation of detailed designs and more refined
cost estimates. While this is still the case, the Bank normally defers Board
presentation until firmer cost estimates are available from the completion of
detailed design (para. 30).
Given the positive study findings on policies and practices for imports
(oil procurement) and pricing, it appears that during appraisal the Bank either



v
misassessed such practices and policies as needing reform when such was not the
case or it lacked sufficient information to carry out a proper assessment (para.
34).
Phase II and Implementation.   The Bank's lengthy examination of the
redefined project extended Phase II by about six to eight months longer than
necessary. Nevertheless, given the satisfactory assessment of the outcome of the
project, the performances of the Bank and ANCAP during Phase II and implementa-
tion deserve "satisfactory" ratings (paras. 31-36).
Future Operations, Findings, and Lessons Learned
Operations. No future operations are planned for the petroleum sector in
Uruguay (para. 38).
Findings. By substituting its data on plant and equipment for that which
would have been generated by the consultants review, ANCAP biased the results of
the feasibility study during Phase I with the result that three years were
consumed in correcting avoidable errors. Nevertheless, given the substantial
achievement of the project objectives and the likely sustainability of such
achievement, the project outcome merits a "satisfactory" rating (para. 39).
Lessons. As for project lessons, there are four: (1) To minimize the risk
of surprise during implementation, it is important that during the planning stage
the scope of key studies (such as the feasibility study) not be reduced for
budgetary reasons; (2) The delays associated with Phase II underscore the wisdom
of the Bank's current policy of substantially completing preliminary or final
design before scheduling Board presentation; (3) Instead of buying an accounting
system, the financial systems study should have embraced a total modernization
of management's internal information system; (4) The "half-a-loaf" results on
price deregulation and crude-oil procurement (paras. 25-27) show why the Bank has
decided to "delink" investment loans and the resolution of sector issues. The
latter are now to be addressed in the Bank's ESW program and their resolution is
expected to preceed Bank investment lending (para. 40).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
URUGUAY
REFINERY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2802-UR)
PART I: FINDINGS AND LESSONS
A. Background
1.    The Borrower.  The Borrower of Loan 2802-UR (US$24.4 million; 1987) is the
Administracion de Combustibles, Alcohol, y Portland (ANCAP), the state oil
monopoly which operates the only refinery in Uruguay. ANCAP imports and refines
crude oil and markets gasoline and other petroleum products under a system of
Government-administered prices. Besides its refining and commercial functions,
ANCAP has important fiscal duties: the gasoline and petroleum taxes which it
collects are a major source of Government revenue. Indeed, the Government places
a high priority on the tax collection services of ANCAP.
2.    Project Preparation:  It is convenient to think of project preparation as
being carried out in two phases. Phase I covers the period 1985 to 1987 and
includes the activities normal to project preparation and loan processing. On
March 27, 1991, more than three years after Loan 2802-UR was declared effective
(December 1, 1987), the Bank, at the request of ANCAP, completely redefined Part
A (Refinery Conversion) of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement (Project Definition)
to correct initial project design shortcomings and to adapt it to the new
realities of petroleum demand. Phase II covers the period 1988-1990 and includes
the activities related to project redefinition and the unsuccessful request of
the Government for supplementary financing.
B. Project Objectives and Definition
Project Preparation: Phase I, 1985-1987
3.    Project Objective.  In the mid-1980s, some of the processing units at the
refinery were old and inefficient; moreover, the mismatch in their refining capa-
cities led to a mismatch in the supply of petroleum products (quantity and range
of production) as compared with demand.  Contributing to inefficiency at the
refinery were its complicated layout and sub-optimal process and operational
controls. According to the Bank, a matrix of poor policies and practices also
contributed to inefficiency--outdated procurement practices, ineffective finan-
cial systems (budgeting, accounting, and internal information), and a Government-
administered, cost-plus petroleum pricing and taxation system which provided
insufficient incentive for efficiency improvements. To address these problems,
ANCAP obtained Bank financing (Loan 2802-UR) for the Refinery Modernization
Project, the main objective of which was to reduce the overall economic cost of
supply of petroleum products in Uruguay to levels comparable to international
prices. A secondary objective was to eliminate the mismatch in the supply of
petroleum products.
4.    Evaluation.   The main project objective was compatible with the larger
objective of Uruguayan energy policy: to reduce the supply cost of energy demand
without impairing economic growth through enhanced efficiency in energy use,
increased use of domestic hydro-electricity, and appropriate resource allocation
through adequate pricing and taxation policies.   As set forth in the loan
documents, the objective was clearly stated; it was also important, appropriate
to the development of Uruguay, and consistent with the Bank's lending strategy



2
through 1987. However, if the project had been carried out as initially con-
ceived and appraised, it would have been unresponsive to substantially altered
Borrower circumstances and therefore wrong.   Fortunately, by agreeing on and
implementing a new, fundamentally redefined project, ANCAP and the Bank avoided
a perpetuation of the problems related to the initial design.
5.    Project Scope Defined.  Besides improving operational efficiency, Part A
of the project (Refinery Conversion) aimed at providing a closer match between
supply and demand--and at a lower cost.   It consisted of: installing new,
efficient equipment ("debottlenecking"); converting the technology and increasing
the capacity of the fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit; partial modernization
of the largest vacuum distillation unit by replacing old equipment; converting
one of the smaller distillation trains into vis-breaking service; and introducing
modern controls.  Part B (Institutional Improvement) aimed at correcting ineffi-
ciencies resulting from the policy/practice matrix. It consisted of technical
assistance (TA), including studies on important sector issues: deregulation of
prices,  import tariffs, and procurement practices.   It is worth noting that
current Bank practice "delinks" investment lending and important sector issues
which are to be addressed as part of the program of Economic Sector Work (ESW)
(paras. 11, 25, 26, & 40).
6.    Project Approach.   The initial project approach was to upgrade the
processing units by removing operational "bottlenecks", i.e., partial moderniza-
tion through the modification of existing facilities by replacing old, obsolete
parts with new, efficient parts. This would accomplish the project objective at
minimum cost, US$28.2 million, and was consistent with the Government's objec-
tives of minimizing deferrable capital investments and of conserving resources
to meet debt-service obligations. Underlying this approach were: (i) a positive
assessment (or assumption) of the physical condition and useability of existing
facilities; and (ii) a slow-growth demand forecast for the period 1985-1995--
under 2% p.a. The demand forecast was based on the falling rate of energy and
petroleum consumption during the years 1981-1984 and the expectation of a meager
pace of economic growth during the balance of the decade. The least-cost validity
of this approach was confirmed in a consultant's feasibility report.
7.    Feasibility Study. During the long discussions  (1981-1985) with ANCAP
before appraisal, the Bank had strongly recommended examination of the "debottle-
necking" approach as compared with a costly rebuilding of the refinery--the first
proposal of ANCAP. Given their importance to the success of this approach, the
physical state and useability of the processing units were to be reviewed by the
consultants as the first step of the least-cost exercise. However, in the course
of negotiating with the consultant, ANCAP, for budgetary reasons, reduced the
scope of the feasibility study by deleting the review and substituting its own
data; and the Bank did not object to this arrangement (see Appendix 1). Com-
pleted in July 1986, the feasibility study makes no reference to the physical
state of the facilities.   Instead, it concentrates on showing the least-cost
calculations under different sets of assumptions. The deletion of this review
was a major contributing cause to the subsequent redefinition of the project.
If the review had been included, it is exceedingly unlikely that its findings
would have led to the adoption of the original project approach.   The Bank
appraised the project in September-October 1986.



3
Project Preparation: Phase II, 1988-1990
8.    Project Scope Redefined.  As already stated (para. 2), the Bank, at the
request of ANCAP, completely redefined (March 27, 1991) Part A in the loan
documents to consist of increased refining capacity and of new components to
reduce/eliminate environmental contamination and to lower operating costs. The
increased capacity was to be achieved by revamping (or reconstructing) the
atmospheric distillation unit, Topping III (from 30,000 BPSD to 37,000 BPSD) and
the FCC unit (from 8,700 BPSD to about 8,900 BPSD) based on a new technology.
As redefined, the project would enable the refinery to process more kinds of
crude oil and to expand the quantity and range of refined products. Set forth
below are the factors underlying the redefinition.
9.    Rationale for Redefinition.  After new consultants began preparing basic
designs in July 1988, they found that the original project scope did not address
the deteriorated state of the facilities at the refinery and did not accommodate
the surge in demand for refined petroleum products in Uruguay. Concerning the
processing units and their physical state, some were in such disrepair that they
were not useable for the purposes of the original project. Further, the location
of proposed replacements had to be revised. Concerning demand, by 1989, consump-
tion of gasoline (284,000 m3 ) had surpassed levels (275,000 m3) forecast for
1993--a reflection of the resurgence of the Uruguayan economy in the late 1980s
(at about 10t p.a.) and lower prices in world petroleum markets, the benefits of
which the Government passed on to consumers. The Government might have restrained
demand by raising taxes on petroleum products as necessary; but such action would
have run counter to its interest in promoting rising employment, production, and
income. Given that these market and technical factors undermined the original
project approach, the consultants convinced ANCAP to adopt a new approach based
on the major rebuilding and expansion of the refinery. Thereafter, in 1989-1990,
the Bank and ANCAP engaged in extended discussions on the redefinition and its
financing (paras. 32 and 33).
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   Part A.  The revamped refinery resumed operations in February/March 1995.
Resumption means (or should mean) the substantial achievement of the physical,
operational, and economic objectives of more closely matching supply and demand,
improving efficiency at the refinery, and reducing the over-all economic cost of
supply of petroleum products in Uruguay to levels comparable to international
prices. To determine reliably the level of benefits will probably require
operation of the refinery during a "shake-down" or test period. Unfortunately,
neither at appraisal nor later were quantitative efficiency targets established
to measure the impact of the project on, for example, staffing levels or
electricity consumption. It should be understood that the beneficiary of the
reduced cost of supply need not be the consumer; the Government (or ANCAP) may
be the sole beneficiary of such reduction. Such restriction of benefits may well
materialize, as the Government continues to use the oil sector as a major tax
collection device and to administer petroleum prices with a view to meeting its
fiscal needs and the financing requirements of ANCAP.
11.   Part B.    Between 1988 and 1991, the studies under this project were
carried out. ANCAP was responsible for three of the studies--operational con-
trols at the refinery, improvements to accounting and budgeting, and procurement
of crude oil; the Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto (OPP-Office of Planning
and Budget) of the Government was responsible for the study of ex-refinery prices



4
and import tariffs. Achievements were substantial (if problematic) for the study
of the operational control system and partial for the study of the accounting/
budgeting systems (paras. 24 & 25). As shown below, the study of ANCAP's pricing
policies and practices did not lead to changes, as expected, for either pricing
or oil procurement.
12.   Delivered to the Bank on April 14, 1990, the study of prices and petroleum
taxes validated ANCAP's import and pricing practices and policies and did not
include recommendations for the deregulation of refined petroleum product prices.
Given the positive finding on import practices, ANCAP, with Bank agreement,
substituted and financed a computer training program for personnel involved with
oil procurement. The Bank strongly pressed the OPP to furnish a timetable on a
study leading to price deregulation. This never happened and prices were never
deregulated.   Instead, in connection with Mercado Commun del Sur (MERCOSUR--
Common Market of the South), the Government abolished the 20% import tax on crude
oil and aligned its tax rate on refined products with Argentina. Abolition of
the import tax brought ANCAP' s pre-tax price structure in line with international
prices. The Bank accepted this in place of deregulation, its real objective, on
the grounds that ANCAP was a relatively efficient monopoly, providing good ser-
vice at a fair price to a market which was too small to attract competitors.
Left undisturbed were the Government-administered, cost-plus pricing and taxation
regime and the monopoly status of ANCAP. This result is consistent with the im-
portance which the Government accords to ANCAP's tax gathering services. Details
on these studies and their achievements are provided later (paras. 22-27).
13.   Phase I: Economic Justification.  At appraisal, the original project: (1)
was least-cost as compared to the options of: (i) relying totally on imports and
(ii) operating the refinery without the project; and (2) generated a financial
rate of return of about 230 percent based on then current ex-refinery prices.
Since the actual market scenario and completed project are not comparable to what
were contemplated at appraisal, this report will not make further effort to
compare the economic justification of the completed project with the options
considered at appraisal. It is worth noting that the SAR did not include annexes
showing least-cost calculations or the calculations related to the financial rate
of return on the project.
14.   Phase II: Economic Justification. A revised market forecast was prepared
to take account of the surge in demand during the late 1980s. In connection with
this forecast, the revised project was again found to be least-cost as compared
to updated versions of options (i) and (ii) above--updated to reflect more recent
cost information. Using the revised investment and updated operating costs of the
project, the least-cost exercises determined, first, the difference values
resulting by subtracting the project cost stream (investment and operating costs)
and from the cost streams (operating) of the respective options; and, second, the
discount rates equalizing at zero the positive and negative values of the two
difference streams. As compared to relying totally on imports, the project was
least-cost with an equalizing discount rate of 33%. As compared to operating the
refinery without the project, the project was least-cost with an equalizing rate
of 20%. No calculation for the financial rate of return was prepared.
15.   Actual Equalizing Discount Rate.  Based on actual investment cost data and
a new (updated) stream of operational costs, the project is least-cost as com-
pared with option (ii). The equalizing discount rate is almost 22%. Data are
not available for option Ci).



5
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   Part A: Scope, Cost, and Timetable.  As described below, the scope of the
completed project was increased over that of the redefined project. Neverthe-
less, scopes of the completed and redefined projects remain comparable, as are
their costs and timetables.   The scope, cost, and timetable of the original
project are not comparable with what followed and the factors accounting for
those changes have already been described (paras. 5-9) . The factors accounting
for the changes between the completed and redefined projects were subject to the
control of ANCAP.
17.   Scope.    The scope of the completed project was extended due to new
concepts. The additional works included: extending the electronic control system
to all process units to avoid problems with the existing pneumatic control sys-
tem; increasing the diameter of certain pipelines for the sake of added security;
encasing underground electrical cables to avoid damage; and building small trans-
mission works to permit the ANCAP generator to work in parallel with the national
electrical system. ANCAP sought (and obtained) the Bank's agreement on the last
item.  According to ANCAP, these additional works represented an increase of
about 30% in the volume of work carried out by the general contractor.
18.   Cost.  Stated in current prices, reflecting current rates of exchange, and
excluding interest during construction, the final project cost was US$95.8
million as compared with the revised cost of US$62.9 million--an increase of
US$32.9 million.  (The original cost forecast was US$28.2 million) .  The cost
increase breaks down as follows: extra construction costs, US$29.9 million; and
all other factors, US$3.0 million (see Schedule 1). However, the magnitude of
these figures may be misleading. If actual construction expenditures (US$41.5
million) are restated in average 1989 prices and are further adjusted for
appreciation in the real rate of exchange, the cost of construction amounts to
US$15.6 million or US$5.0 more than the expected base price plus physical
contingency (US$10.6 million) . Most, if not all of the US$5.0 million, was due
to increases in the scope of the project, including a new substation and
transmission line to interconnect the electric power facilities of the refinery
with those of the national power company. Lack of counterpart financing was not
a source of delay.
Schedule 1: Actual and Revised Project Costs
(in millions of US$'s, stated in current prices)
Part A            Part B  Total
Sub-
Component                EMI*  Const.  Eng.  Total    TA
Actual                   38.7   41.5  13.7  93.9       1.9   95.8
Revised                  38.1   11.6  12.1  61.8       1.1   62.9
Base, inc. Physical Contingency 35.6   10.6  11.3  57.5  1.1   58.6
Price Contingency        2.5    1.0   0.8  4.3        0.0    4.3
Difference: Actual Less Revised  0.6   29.9   1.6  32.1  0.8   32.9
% Dif. from Revised (net)  1.5  257.7  13.4  51.9     80.9   52.4
*EMI: Equipment, materiaLs, and insurance
19.   Timing.   The general contractor began work at the end of March 1991.
Construction of civil works began in September 1992. The refinery stopped opera-
tions in April 1993 to allow installation to begin but normal work speed was



6
interrupted by a national strike of construction workers (May-August 1993).
There was a second, local strike in February 1994. The project completion date
was revised from June 1994 to September 1994 to January 1995. The project was
completed in February 1995.
20.   As compared with the original completion date of July 1991, the actual
completion date reflected, first, the delays attending the redefinition of the
project scope (paras. 8 and 9) and, second, problems and delays encountered by
the general  contractor  (para.  21).   The responsibilities  of the general
contractor included: preparing detailed engineering plans and budgets, assisting
ANCAP in the procurement process, and constructing and commissioning the
refinery.
21.   ANCAP was critical of the contractor's work (see Appendix 2). According
to ANCAP, during the design and procurement phases, the contractor did not.
complete the detailed designs on time, promptly overcome procurement problems,
and properly coordinate his (the contractor's) activities. While acknowledging
that increases to the scope of the project (para. 17) and strikes (para. 19) were
sources of delay outside the control of the contractor, ANCAP alleges that during
construction the contractor contributed to late project completion by not
reacting promptly and strongly to counter adverse developments (para. 37).
22.   Part B: Objectives and Results.  As already stated (para. 11), achievements
under the studies  ranged from substantial  (if problematic)  to partial  to
validation of existing system. The timing of their contracting and completion
did not reflect the problems of redefining the scope of Part A. Details on the
achievement of objectives under these studies are set forth below.
23.   Control Systems:  To improve efficiency at the refinery, Part B included
consultant services to develop a modern control system. On October 2, 1990, the
consultants delivered their final report. During 1991, under the consultants'
supervision, ANCAP installed the systems. The cost of the consultants' services
was Us$627,000 and their performance was considered to be satisfactory. While
a final judgement on the worth of these systems (and the study which led to their
installation) can only be made after they have been tested for a sufficient time,
it is reasonable to expect that because of their importance to refinery
operations, ANCAP will ensure their full and effective operation and that in due
course ANCAP will be able to provide data indicating that the efficiency
objective of the new controls has been substantially achieved.
24.   Financial  Systems:   To enhance management  control,  Part B included
consultants' services to improve ANCAP's accounting, budgeting, and management
information systems. The consultants completed their report in October 1989 and
thereafter installed a purchased software package for accounting and budgeting.
The cost of the consultants' services was US$1,195,000. While most objectives
were achieved with respect to costing and budgeting, valuing fixed assets to
reflect inflation and devaluation, and implementing a decentralized management
system, ANCAP continues to face serious difficulties in issuing its financial
statements on a timely basis due to: (i) the high turn-over of personnel who
leave for higher salaries in the private sector; and (ii) the lack of full
compatibility between the peripheral (stocks, personnel, etc.) and main systems.
These difficulties mean that the objectives of the study were only partially
achieved. It is not certain that ANCAP will, in the near term, invest the



7
resources to eliminate the delays plaguing the timely production of financial
statements. The performance of the consultants was considered adequate, but the
design of the system seems inadequate.
25.   Petroleum Pricing: To correct the shortcomings of Government-administered
cost-plus petroleum pricing and taxation, Part B included a study which would
establish an ex-refinery pricing system and an import tariff system, geared to
encouraging operational efficiency. The OPP sent to the Bank the price reform
study on April 14, 1990.  The study affirmed ANCAP's pricing and oil procurement
practices--that is, ANCAP maintained petroleum prices at appropriate levels in
relation to crude oil import parity prices, and obtained crude oil at optimum
prices in the international markets. The study did not include recommendations
for deregulating the prices of refined products. The cost of the consultant's
services was US$80,000; their performance was satisfactory.
26.   After ANCAP missed the revised deadline (December 14, 1990) for sending the
timetable for expanding on the consultants' findings, the Bank began to strongly
press OPP to provide the Bank by the first week of March 1991 with an Aide Memoir
setting forth the steps and timing of a study which would lead to price
deregulation.   This never happened; and retail prices were not deregulated.
Instead, as a result of the advent of MERCOSUR, the Government abolished the 20%
tax on crude oil imports, thereby bringing ANCAP's pre-tax price structure in
line with international comparators, and Argentina and Uruguay aligned their tax
rates on gasoline (see Schedule 2). As already stated, the Bank accepted this
"half-a-loaf" result in place of deregulation, its real objective, on the grounds
that ANCAP was an efficient monopoly providing good service at a fair price to
a market too small to attract competitors (para. 12) . The Bank's acceptance of
the study and what followed was a reasonable response to the reality of its
having to operate in this context.
Schedule 2. Gasoline Tax Rates
(as a % of the unit retail price)
Uruguay Argentina Brazil Paraguay
Date
01/92  55      59    34    42
06/92   53     60    39    43
01/93   54     55    37    40
06/93   52     53    37    43
01/94   54     56    36    33
06/94   55     56    36    39
12/94  55      55    36    41
03/95   55     NA    NA    NA
27.   Crude Oil Procurement and Trading:  Part B included consultant services to
improve ANCAP's oil procurement and trading systems--the object being to reduce
procurement costs through the rapid adjustment of inventories to price swings and
market developments. Since the pricing study validated ANCAP's import (procure-
ment) policies and practices, the Bank (correctly) did not insist on the execu-
tion of a procurement study which, presumably, would have duplicated the findings
of the pricing study. Instead, the Bank agreed that ANCAP could upgrade its pro-
curement and trading practices by introducing a computerized system to follow the
market and by replacing consultant services with a training program for staff.
ANCAP funded the program. All proceeds of this loan allocated to Part B were used
to finance other studies included in the project.   While ANCAP provided, as
agreed, a report on the training program, there is insufficient information to
judge the improvement to ANCAP's procurement and trading systems.



8
E. Project Sustainability
28.   The sustainability of Part A is likely, as the Government and ANCAP's
management recognize the importance of the refinery to the economy. Concerning
Part B, if it is reasonable to expect that ANCAP will ensure effective operation
of the control system, it is equally reasonable to expect the substantial and
sustained achievement of the objective of improved refinery efficiency as
measured in reduced unit costs. Concerning the sustainability of improvements
to the accounting/budgeting system, judgment must be deferred, pending the
receipt of information on future developments. Given the consultant's positive
finding on its practices and policies with respect to imports and pricing, it
does not appear likely that ANCAP is planning major changes; and given the
Government's interest in ANCAP's tax collection services, it does not appear
likely that in the next few years the Government is going to take actions
supporting deregulated prices or altering the monopoly status of ANCAP.
F. Bank Performance
29.   Preparation: Phase I, Part A.  Technical deficiencies in the feasibility
study and unexpected market growth undermined the original project approach. The
technical deficiencies had their origin in ANCAP's unfortunate decision to reduce
the scope of the feasibility study, for budgetary reasons, by requiring the
consultant to use its (ANCAP's) data on physical state of plant and equipment for
that which would have been generated as a result of the consultant's review
(para.  7).   Presumably,  such review would have demonstrated that existing
facilities were too deteriorated for purposes of the project and that
reconstruction, even without capacity additions, was the correct approach. To
a lesser degree, the Bank must share in the negative judgement on the performance
of ANCAP, as it did not object to ANCAP's reducing the scope of the project.
30.   Under current Bank procedures, appraisals are carried out based on, inter
alia, the cost estimates appearing in feasibility studies, and Board presenta-
tions are scheduled only after the substantial completion of final design, when
firmer cost estimates are available. However, as it used to be standard practice
not to condition Board presentation to the substantial completion final design
and the preparation of firmer cost estimates, the Bank did not err under then
current procedures.
31.   Preparation: Phase II, Part A.  Even though the Bank fully participated in
the evaluation and approval of a redefined Part A (paras. 7 & 8) --which substan-
tially achieved its objectives--the performance of the Bank during Phase II
should be rated as only marginally satisfactory because it took 21 months to
evaluate the redefinition and answer the ANCAP's request for supplementary
financing.
32.    In 1989, the Bank spent about nine (9) months checking and rechecking,
with the aid of a consultant, the data supporting the redefinition of Part A
before approving the proposed change. It is the opinion of ANCAP that the Bank
took an excessive amount of time to take this decision.  At the beginning of
1990, to help meet the new increased cost estimate, ANCAP requested supplementary
Bank financing for the redefined project.  After extended internal consideration
of the strong project-specific arguments supporting the Borrower's request, the
Bank declined to provide any additional funds (December 13, 1990). The Bank's
denial reflected its new policy of emphasizing the role of private capital and



9
its positive assessment of ANCAP's capacity to bear the cost increase. For its
part, the Government was not interested in altering ANCAP's status as a state
company or in dispensing with its tax-collection services. Discussions on these
issues were lengthy. It does not seem possible that the Bank and ANCAP, given
their respective differences, could have resolved the financing issue more
quickly.
33.   Implementation: Part A.   Once implementation began  (March 1991),  the
professional supervision effort of the Bank materially improved working relations
with ANCAP, and its performance should be rated as satisfactory.
34.   Preparation and Implementation: Part B.  As with Part A, the Bank played
a key role in identifying the studies for institutional improvement. Given that
the achievements with respect to the objectives of the studies range from
substantial (if problematic) to partial to validation of existing systems, the
performance of the Bank should be rated no more than satisfactory. Since the
pricing study validated ANCAP's policies and practices with respect to imports
(procurement) and prices, this finding, together with the Bank's acceptance,
implies that at appraisal the Bank either misassessed those practices and
policies as needing reform when such was not the case; or it lacked sufficient
information for a proper assessment.
G. Borrower Performance
35.   Preparation  and  Implementation:  Part  A.    During  Phase  I,  ANCAP's
performance was unsatisfactory (para. 29) . Eliminating the consultants' review
of ANCAP's plant and equipment was an example of being "...penny wise and pound
foolish." Nevertheless, ANCAP should have been fully familiar with the physical
state of its existing plant and should have anticipated that, even with a low-
growth demand scenario, a project based on the partial modernization of
deteriorated plant was not possible. As for Phase II, ANCAP's performance was
satisfactory; and its performance during implementation was also satisfactory.
36.   Preparation and Implementation: Part B.  Like the performance of the Bank
with respect to Part B, the performance of ANCAP should be rated satisfactory.
H. Performance of Consultants and General Contractor
37.   The performance of the consultants who prepared the feasibility study was
adequate. Although the consultant was not responsible for the decision to omit
a "review" of ANCAP's facilities, his report does not make a disclaimer on this
issue and does not recommend that such review should be performed. The perform-
ance of the consultants who prepared the basic designs and who acted with ANCAP
as supervising engineer was satisfactory.  ANCAP alleges that the contractor
contributed to late project completion by not reacting promptly and strongly to
counter adverse developments (para. 21) . The Bank has not been able to confirm
this allegation.   As already stated (paras. 23-27), the performances of the
consultants who prepared the various studies constituting Part B were either
satisfactory or adequate.
I. Follow-on Projects
38.   Since  1987,  the Bank processed no additional  loans benefitting  the
petroleum sector of Uruguay. In 1990, the Bank approved Loan 3221-UR (US$62.5



10
million)  to help modernize the electric power sector.   Another power loan
(US$125.0 million) is about to be negotiated.
J. Assessment of Outcome
39.   There has been substantial achievement of Part A's physical, operational,
and economic objectives (para. 10); the sustainability of such achievement is
likely (para. 28). Achievements under part B range from substantial to partial
to validation of existing systems (para. 11). The positive assessment of Part
A notwithstanding, a prudent and conservative approach ought to prevail in rating
the overall outcome of the project. As compared with the appraisal forecasts,
the project experienced significant time and cost increases; hence, the overall
outcome of the project should only be rated as satisfactory.
K. Key Lessons Learned
40.   Four lessons emerge from this project: (1) To minimize the risk of surprise
during implementation, it is important that during the planning stage the scope
of key studies (such as the feasibility study) not be reduced for budgetary
reasons; (2) The redesign, delays, and cost increases associated with this
project underscore the wisdom of substantially completing preliminary or final
design before scheduling Board approval (see Appendix 3); (3) Instead of buying
an accounting system, the study should have embraced a total modernization of
management's internal information systems; (4) The "half-a-loaf" results on price
deregulation and crude-oil procurement (paras. 25-27) show why the Bank has
decided to "delink" investment loans and the resolution of sector issues. The
latter are now to be addressed in the Bank's ESW program and their resolution is
expected to preceed Bank investment lending.



11
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 1
Comments of Consultant Re Feasibility Studv
Note: The following was excerpted from a letter dated August 1, 1995 addressed
to Mr. Alfonso Sanchez, formerly Chief, LAlIN:
"As a matter of background, we submitted our first lump-sum proposal for
the feasibility study in August 1985. After review and comments by the Bank and
ANCAP, we submitted our second lump-sum proposal for a reduced scope in October
1985. The scope of the second proposal was selected to correspond to the budget
available from ANCAP for the study.  Due to the reduced scope of work (5,000
hours), we neither confirmed nor investigated the condition of the existing
equipment. Instead, and in agreement with our client, we relied on information
about existing facilities that had been given to us by ANCAP management and
operations personnel during a site visit and various conversations.
"This was stated in our October proposal as follows: ' ... (ANCAP) intends
to improve the process and operating efficiencies as well as the economies of
refinery operations at minimum additional investment and other costs. Consistent
with this approach and project objectives, the study orientation will emphasize
maximization of benefits that can be derived from existing assets, and thereafter
investigate fully appropriate low-cost plant modification or debottlenecking
options...'
"Also stated in this proposal: 'Except where ANCAP specifies otherwise,
[the consultant] will assume all equipment operates as indicated in the Final Job
Specifications Book for [ ..... I Job No. 5369.'  Satisfying these instruction was
our driving force while conduction (sic) the feasibility study.
"Our feasibility report, based on our October 1985 proposal, recommends
that 10 existing equipment items be revamped, 21 be deleted and 66 new items be
added to carry our (sic) the reduced scope of work. Any existing equipment not
modified or deleted was assumed to operate in accordance with its original design
specification or in a manner acceptable to ANCAP refinery personnel."



12
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
Comments of the Borrower on Part I
Note: The following, which has been translated from Spanish, was addressed to Mr.
Alfonso Sanchez, formerly Chief, LAlIN. It was dated August 31, 1995 and was
signed by Messrs. Andres Tierno Abreu, President, ANCAP, and Juan Francisco
Baldomir Terra, General Secretary, ANCAP. The brackets signify words or phrases
or other changes which clarify the meaning of ANCAP's reply.
"This Administration has analyzed the [draft version] of ICR on the
Refinery Modernization Project (Loan 2802-UR), dated June 27, 1995. Set forth
below are our comments.
"Point one: the division of project preparation into two phases, 1985-1987
and 1988-1990. This division was due, according to the Bank, to the consultants'
finding, while preparing the basic engineering designs, a very important increase
in the estimated cost of the project.
"It is the opinion of the Bank that this increase in the estimated cost of
the project is due to two factors related to the feasibility study: the physical
state and useability of the processing units were not verified; and the increase
in the demand for refined products, which changed the originally foreseen
capacities of the units.   The increase in demand materialized between the
preparation of the feasibility study and the preparation of the basic
engineering.
"Even though the feasibility study was deficient regarding the correct
estimate of the physical state of the installations, the capacity of some
equipment and the analysis of most of the facilities were revised during the
phase of basic engineering when the project was revised [to make] the refinery
profitable, competitive, and capable of meeting expected demand. Further, it was
necessary to redefine the systems of instrumentation and control, safety and fire
prevention, and electricity co-generation...
"The revision raised the estimated cost of the project from US$30.0 million
to US$65.0 million.  But we do not agree that the completed project is very
different from the original project, as the Bank maintains (see Part II, Table
2) because, in substance, the solutions.. .set forth in the processing diagrams
are essentially the same, even though there are some variations with respect to
capacities, technologies, and some services.
"Point two: Factual errors in paragraph 8. Topping III was defined in the
feasibility study at 30,000 BPSD and redefined at 37,000 BPSD, rather than 40,000
as stated by the Bank.   The FCC unit was defined at feasibility for maximum
production at 8,900 BPSD... and was redefined at 9,000 BPSD rather than 18,000
BPSD as stated by the Bank....
"Point three: Performance of the contractor.   Notwithstanding that we
acknowledge the judgement [of the ICR], we note the following:
"When the contract was signed, the project completion date was set for
January 31, 1994.'



13
ApDendix 2
Page 2 of 3
"In September 1993, the detailed engineering having been completed, 95t of
the purchases having been made, and the construction strike being over, a new
construction timetable was agreed which fixed the project completion date at
September 30, 1994, including 26 days for possible stoppages.
"The date for provisional acceptance was set for February 3, 1995.
"This company acknowledged the above mentioned extension of the completion
date (September 30, 1994), given that: there existed added works (21 days), days
lost due to force majeure (54 days) and strikes (22 days), which extended the
completion date to December 18, 1994.
"As has been said, ANCAP delayed the completion of the works by six months,
taking into consideration the strike and non-measurable impact of the added works
to the scope of the project from January 1994 to September 30, 1994, including
26 days lost to non-production.
"The increase in the detailed engineering and the purchase of services
amounts to about 5% of these concepts, which we judge to have had a small impact
on the project timetable.
"Notwithstanding the above, the work was delayed almost four months more.
"When we judge the performance of the contractor, we do so based on causes
which in our opinion affected the development of the project:
a) a lack of coordination amount the members of the consortium, in the
execution of the detailed engineering;
b) an inadequate system of materials estimation in order to prepare the
bidding documents;
c) the delay in the prior stages was reflected in their not having designs
and materials in time and form at the construction stage;
d) a ragged development of construction with deficiencies in planning and
control. Although ANCAP agreed to update the original timetable, increasing the
execution period to 46 months instead of the 34 months which had been
contractually agreed;
"As a consequence and contrary to the opinion of the Bank in its report,
ANCAP judges the performance of the contractor, in this respect, to be
unsatisfactory.
"On the other hand, on several occasions, the report says that there was
a "redesign" of the project, when in reality what happened was an updating of the
feasibility concept during the completion of final design. At that time, process
licenses were defined, as were flows, utilities, and the form of construction.
"Finally, it is necessary to say that ANCAP is not a parastatal, as is
stated in the ICR (para. 33), but is a state company."



14
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
Comments of the Guarantor on Part I
Note: The following, which has been translated from Spanish, was attached to a
cover letter, dated July 19, 1995, from Cr. Ariel Davrieux, Director, Oficina de
Planeamiento y Presupuesto, to Mr. Alfonso Sanchez, formerly Chief, LAIIN.
"The Infrastructure Division (Department 1) of the Bank sent a copy of the
Implementation Completion Report for Loan 2802-YR, Refinery Modernization
Project, in order to obtain our comments.
"In general terms we share the conclusions of the report which was prepared
by Bank staff.
"It is worth pointing out that one of the principal problems of the project
is related to the preparation phase and originates in the inadequate level of the
studies. Said analyses, which were at the feasibility stage, did not identify
the real state of existing physical infrastructure at the refinery.
"Based on the initial economic feasibility study carried out in 1985, ANCAP
sought and obtained a loan from the World Bank for US$24.4 million. The loan
agreement was signed on July 29, 1987.
"At that time, the cost of the project was estimated at US$28.4 millions.
"Once the loan had been obtained, basic engineering studies were carried
out. These studies sensibly changed the original project and raised the cost to
US$62.856 million. Besides technical adjustments derived from the differences
in the depth of analysis of the two studies--feasibility and basic engineering,
the changes in the project were due to:
(i) the choice of an oven with a larger capacity for
processing than was chosen for the original project.
The new choice was to meet a revised demand forecast
and to supply a larger production of distillates.
(ii) the modification of the technology for catalytic
cracking. This impacted on costs.
(iii) the addition of two new subprojects: a plant for
the treatment of residual waters; and a stabilizer for
catalytic reforming.
"Another aspect worth pointing out it the grace period of the loan which
was shorter than the period of execution.  The grace period was three years
beginning with effectiveness of the loan which the project execution period was
expected to be four years.
"In conclusion, the aspects worth pointing out from the foregoing are, in
the opinion of this division, the following:
"For this type of project, it should be required that, prior to the
contracting of the loan, studies at the level of final design be completed and



15
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
that the Borrower should have fully examined those studies.
"There should be no agreement to grace periods which are shorter than the
period of project execution.
"It is important that projects be subjected to continuous monitoring during
the preparation period and during the execution period, in order that eventual
problems might be detected and corrective measures be devised and implemented in
a timely manner."



16
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of          Substantial    Partial        NeEli        Not
objectives                                               gible        A1DI-
cable
Macroeconomic policies                                                X
Sector tariff policies     X
Financial Objectives                                                  X
Institutional Development                X
Physical Objectives        X
Poverty Reduction                                                     X
Gender Concerns                                                       X
Other social objectives                                               X
Environmental objectives    X
Public sector management                                              X
Private sector                                                        X
development
Other (specify)                                                       X
B. Project Sustainabili_   Likelv        Unlikely        Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance        Highly                                     Highly
Satis-        Satis-          Unsatis-     Unsatis-
factory       factorv         factory      factory
Identification                           X
Preparation/Appraisal
Phase I                                                X
Phase 11                               X
Supervision                              X
D. Borrower Performance
PreparationlAppraisal
Phase I                                                 X
Phase 11                                X
Implementation                           X
Covenant compliance        X
E. Assessrnent of                        X
outcome



17
TabLe 2. Bank Loans for Energy Projects in Uruguay
Page 1 of 2
Amount
Loan Number        (in US$                                             Year of
& Project          millions)             Purpose                       Approval                 Status
Preceding Operations l
1779-UR;           24.0         To expand and re-                      1979             Project completed in
Fifth Power                     novate the dis-                                         Dec. 1985, four years
tribution sys-                                         late due to delayed
tem; and to carry                                      effectiveness and
out various                                            complex procure-
studies (planning,                                     ment procedures.
tariffs, manage-                                       Actual and forecast
ment improvement--                                     costs were close:
finance, audit,                                        US$52.4 million.
management in-                                         Management improve-
formation sys-                                         ment studies were
tem.                                                   carried out and im-
plemented. Least-
cost expansion plan
defined and used.
Marginal cost tariff
study not fully imple-
mented; compliance
with rate-of-return
covenant poor. Except
for tariff study, pro-
ject substantially met
its original objectives.
2484-UR;           4.0          To carry out studies                   1984             Project completed
Power Engi-                     and training which                                      in 1990, about 3.5
neering                         would: strengthen-                                      years late, due to
UTE's management;                                       late loan effec-
promote operational                                    tiveness and com-
efficiency; improve                                    plex contracting
the quality of ser-                                    procedures.  Final
vice; and stimulate                                    cost was US$7.1
rational use of                                        million--26X
electricity by                                         over appraisal
consumers.                                             appraisal forecast.
Cost increase was
primarily due to
purchase of computer
equipment not part
of origin project.
Completed project
substantially met
original objectives.
Not Listed are power loans totalling US$82.0 million (0030-UR, US$33.0 million; 0132-UR, US$5.5 million;
0512-UR, US$25.5 million; and 0712-UR, Us$18.0 million) made to UTE between 1950 and 1970. Except for a small
part of Loan 0030-UR, which helped to finance expansion of the telephone system formerly administered by UTE,
these loans financed generation projects and transmission/distribution projects, all of which were successfuLly
completed, notwithstanding cost and time overruns. Following approval of Loan 0152-UR in 1956, the Bank did
not make another loan to UTE for 14 years due to poor macroeconomic conditions, poor institutional performance,
and adverse regulation, including low tariffs, government interference and reduced management autonomy.
Following approval of Loan 0712-UR in 1970, the Bank and the Goverrrient, in circumstances of severe social
conflict, internal economic difficulties, and deteriorating financial and technical performance on the part of
UTE, engaged in an extended dialogue on measures to restructure the sector and restore the technical and
financial performances of UTE. Agreement on these measures was achieved in connection with Loan 1779-UR.



18
Table 2 (Cont'd.)
Amount                                                               Page 2 of 2
Loan Number        (in USS                                             Year of
& Project          millions)    Purpose                                Approval         Status
2622-UR;           45.2         To strengthen UTE's                    1985             Project completion
Power Sec-                      hydro generation                                        delayed to 1997,
tor Reha-                       capacity by rehabili-                                   about 5 years
bilita-                          tating the Gabriel                                     late, due to long
tion                            Terra hydro plant;                                      negotiations with
to improve service                                     other lenders for
reliability by expand-                                 additional loans,
ing the transmission                                   delays in preparing
and distribution sys-                                  bidding documents,
tems; to ensure sound                                  and technical com-
financial and managerial                               plexity of renovat-
practices through the                                   ing an operating
contracting of consult-                                power plant.
ing services for project
management.
2802-UR;           24.4         To improve the tech-                   1985             Project completed
Refin-                          capabilities ("flexi-                                   in Nov., 1994, 3.5
ery                             bility") of national                                    years late, due to
Moderni-                         refinery operated by                                   major post-appraisal
zation                          ANCAP; to improve in-                                   design changes re-
stitutional capacities                                 quired to accomo-
at ANCAP (procurement,                                 date increased demand
operations, financial                                  for petroleum products
& MIS); to improve the                                 and shortcomings in
Government's methodology                               existing facilities.
for setting petroleum                                  Completed project signi-
prices, the object being                               ficantly different from
to align domestic petro-                               the original project.
leum prices with inter-                                Final cost of US$95.8
national prices.                                       million almost 53X
greater than revised
Sub-total          97.6 2                                                               cost of USS62.9 mitlion.
Following Operations
3221-UR            62.5         To improve the reli-                   1990             Project under
Power Moderni-                  ability of supply by                                    execution. Ex-
zation                           installing 113.5 MW                                    pected comple-
of thermal capacity;                                   tion in 1997, as
to reduce losses by                                    originally
rehabilitating dis-                                    scheduled.
tribution system; to
upgrade mgmt. capabilities.
Sub-total          62.5 3
Total              160.1 2/ 3/
2 Total does not include four Loans totalling US$82.0 million made to UTE between 1950 and 1970.
3 Does not include Loan 3517-UR (US$11.0 million, 1992), a Public Enterprize and Reform Loan (PERL), which
is helping to finance a group of studies to identify the steps for privatizing a number of state-owned
companies, including UTE. In December 1993, a majority of the electorate rejected the option of privatizing
UTE and some other state-owned companies.
4 Total does not include pending loan of US$125.0 million to UTE to rehabilitate, expand, and upgrade
transmission and distribution systems. Bank approval is expected in 1995.



19
Table 3. Project TimetabLe
Event                         Date PLanned                  Date Revised                  Actual Date
Identification                                                                            12/811
Preparation: Phase 12         07-09/853                     01-04/864                     01-07/865
Appraisal                  10-11/85 3/                  06/86 4/                      09/15-10/02/86
09/866
Negotiations              03/86 3/                      11/86 4/                      03/23-27/87
03/87 6/
Board Approval            05/86 3/                      01/87 4/                      04/28/87
04/87 6/
Signature                  ---                          ---                           07/29/87
Effectiveness             10/27/87                      12/01/877                      12/01/87
Preparation: Phase 11 2/   ---                              ---                           12/87-03/91
Implementation                12/87-07/91'                  03/91-06/949                  03/91-12/94'
Loan Closing                  01/31/9211                    12/31/9412                    12/31/94
Last Disbursement                                                                         01/05/95
Project Completion            07/31/91                      12/31/94                      02/03/95
1 In 1981, ANCAP initiated talks to install conversion units costing USS100-200 million.  In 1982, taking
account of country and sector problems, the Bank recommended replacing old, obsolete equipment with new,
efficient equipment. This approach would reduce costs and defer investment. In 1984, ANCAP studied a project
based on this approach.
2 Because of the complete redefinition of Part A, it is convenient to think of project preparation as
being carried out in two phases.  Phase I covers the period 1985-1987 and incLudes the activities normal to
project preparation and loan processing. Phase II covers the period 1988-1990 and incLudes the activities
related to project redefinition and the discussions of supplementary financing.
3Source: World Bank, Back-to-Office Report, dated 07.01.85.
4Source: Idem., Draft Initial Project Brief, dated 01.15.86.
5 The Bank received the feasibility study on 07.23.86.
6 Source: Idem., Project Brief, dated 07.22.86.
7 The Bank extended the effectiveness deadLine because the original period was too short; and (2) ANCAP
was working hard to execute a satisfactory Subsidiary Agreement with the Planning Office for the execution of
the petroleun pricing study and provide a LegaL opinion on the validity of the Subsidiary Agreement.
B Source: World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Uruguay: Refinery Modernization Proiect, dated April 6, 1987
(Report. No. 6625-UR), p. 64, Annex 4.2.
9 Period covers work to be carried out by general contractor after end of Phase II.
IO Extra months reflect impact of strike of construction workers and increase in project scope.
II As per Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement for the Refinery Modernization Project, dated July 29, 1987.
12 Bank agreed to amend loan closing date in its letter to ANCAP dated March 27, 1991.



20
Table 4a. Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US millions)
Cal. Yr.          1987      1988      1989    1990      1991       1992        1993      1994
Appraisal 1/     0.45       2.93    11.34    20.99    24.32        24.40      24.40      24.4
Actual            0.0       1.96     5.13      5.60      6.73       8.06      19.30      24.4
Actual as         0.0       66.9     45.2      26.7      27.7       33.0       79.1     100.0
% of Appraisal
1/ Adapted from President's Report, dated April 6, 1987 (Report No. P-4508-UR), Schedule B, p. 6. The
corresponding annex was omitted from the Staff AppraisaL Report, although reference to such annex appears in
the text of the SAR.
Table 4b. Disbursements by Category: Actual, Revised, and Original
(US$ million)
Actual         Revised        Revised        Revised            Original
(01.12.95)        (11.30.94)   (01.01.92)    (03.27.91)             (07.29.87)
Category
1. Goods          15.87              15.86          15.16           15.00              12.78
2. Licenses,    4.26                 4.26            4.85            4.85               4.15
engineering
fees
3. Works           2.20              2.20            2.30            2.30               0.88
4.(a)  Consul-   0.66                0.67            0.67            0.67                0.67
tancy Service
4.(b)  Consul-  0.08                 0.08            0.08            0.08                0.08
tancy Service
5.  Interest &  1.33                 1.34            1.34            1.50               3.48
Other Charges
through 05.31.91
6. Unallocated 0.00                  0.00            0.00            0.00              2.00
Total              24.40             24.40           24.40           24.40             24.40



21
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Note: The closest analogue to a key indicator (or set of indicators) for
project implementation is the expected timetable for important activities.
Mos.
Activity        Expected Dates   Actual Dates      Diff.                          Comment
1. Basic        Start: 12/87     Start: 07/88     7          Late start and delayed completion of basic engineering by con-
Engineering    Finish: 06/88   Finish: 03/89     9          sultants reflected late loan effectiveness and additional time
No. of Mos.: 6   No. of Mos.: 8   2          required to carry out project redesign to address equipment defi
ciencies and surge in petroleum demand. The increase in the
project scope led to the Bank's amending Schedules I and 2 of
the Loan Agreement, dated March 27, 1991--the allocation of loan
proceeds and the definition of the project. The redesigned project
was expected to cost US$62.9 million (excluding interest
during construction) as compared with the appraisal forecast of
US$28.2 million.
2. Selection    Start: 06/88      Start: 07/90     21         Late start and delayed completion of the contractor selection pro-
of contractor   Finish: 12/88  Finish: 03/91    27         cess reflected extra time required by ANCAP to consider problems
No. of Mos.: 6   No. of Mos.: 8    2         of identifying sources for additional project financing, plus impact
of prior delays. In December 1990, the Bank officially declined
ANCAP's request to provide supplementary financing on the
grounds that such financing was not appropriate in the light of the
Bank's interest in promoting private ownership of (or participation
in) such facilities as refineries; and ANCAP's capacity to finance
the additional costs with its own resources.
3. Procure-     Start: 01/89     Start: 04/91 '/   27         Late start and delayed completion of the procurement process
ment          Finish: 04/89    Finish: 12/93               reflected impact of prior delays and increased project scope.
No. of Mos.: 3   No. of Mos.: 20
4. Civil        Start: 05/89     Start: 09/92      40         Late start and delayed completion of civil works and installation
Works,        Finish: 02/91    Finish: 09/94    44         reflect prior delays, plus impact of strikes (June-August 1993).
Installation  No. of Mos.: 21   No. of Mos.: 24   3
5. Pre-com-     Start: 02/91     Start: 10/94      42         Late start and delayed completion reflect impact of all factors
missioning    Finish: 07/91    Finish: 12/94    41         cited above.
No. of Mos.: 6   No. of Mos.: 3   -3
1 Represents date when Bank provided its "no objection" to for the issue of pre-qualification documents.
During week of JuLy 22, 1991, Bank and ANCAP reached agreement on (i) list of pre-qualified bidders; and (ii)
procurement procedures, instruction to bidders, and generaL purchasing conditions.



22
Table 6. Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined                 Status                          Impact
1. PLanning       To improve efficiency of           Having received consuL-    Final assessment of these
and Con-       refinery operations using          tants' final report on       systems can only be made
troL of        computers.                         10.02.90, ANCAP              after they have been
Production                                         instalLed controL sys-      properLy tested. However,
Operations                                        tems compatible with the   it is reasonabLe to expect
Using                                             redesigned project--com-   that because of their
Optimiza-                                         puter-based systems us-    importance, ANCAP wilL
tion Tech-                                        ing optimizing linear        assure their full, effec-
niques                                            programming techniques.    tive, and sustained oper-
ation and in due course
provide supporting data.
2. Accounting,   To improve management controL    After consultants issued   Achievements are partial.
Budgeting      of financial functions:            their report in 10.89,       There continue to be
and Manage-   accounting, budgeting, and          ANCAP purchased & imple-   difficulties in issuing on-
ment Infor-   management information.             mented computer software   time financial statements
mation Sys-                                       for accounting/budget-       due to: (i) high turnover
tems                                              ing.  ANCAP continues to   of computer staff who leave
face difficulties in         for higher saLaries; and
issuing financial            (ii) less-than-complete
statements on time.          compatibility of peripheral
systems (personnel, stock)
with accounting system. It
is not certain that ANCAP
wiLl in the near term
invest the resources to
eliminate delays.
To improve the petroleum           Consultants issued their   Having accepted results of
3. Ex-Refinery   pricing and taxation system,         final report, 04.14.90,    study validating ANCAP's
Petroleum      the objects being to: (i)          which validated ANCAP's    pricing policies and prac-
Product        ensure adequate levels of          import and pricing           tices, the Bank accepted
Pricing &      Government tax revenues on         practices and policies.    price structure reflecting
Crude Oil      petroleum products; (ii)           OPB was supposed to          treaty obLigations under
Import        maintain the financial              discuss with the Bank a    MERCOSUR on the grounds
Taxes          viabiLity of ANCAP; and (iii)    timetable for a study          that ANCAP was an efficient
remedy the lack of efficiency    which would lead to            monopoLy, providing good
incentives in Government-          price deregulation, but    service at a fair price to
administered, cost-plus            this did not happen due    a market which was too
pricing principles.                to the advent of MERCO-    small to attract
SUR and the aLigrnent of   competitors.
petroLeum tax structure
by Uruguay and Argen-
tina.
4. Procurement   To improve ANCAP's crude oil         Given the validation of    Bank accepted results of
and Product   procurement and trading             ANCAP's import practices   study validating existing
Trading        procedures--the object being       (see above), no study        procurement practices. As
System         to reduce procurement costs.       was ever carried out.        for staff training program,
Instead, Bank agreed        the data are insufficient
that ANCAP, using its        to make a judgement.
resources, couLd sub-
stitute training program
for operation of com-
puters to follow market
for consultant services.
Proceeds of TA component
were applied to other
studies. ANCAP supplied
report on training
program in 04.95.



23
Tables 7a. & 7b.
Project Cost: Forecast, Revised, and Actual
Sources of Financirg: Forecast, Revised, and Actual
(in miLlions of US$ stated in current prices)
Forecast                Revised                      Actual
Proiect Cost          Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total     % Diff. From
Revised.
1. Equip., Mat. (FOB)  1.41    12.98   14.39   7.35   28.74     36.09     0.00    38.69     38.69     1.5'
2. Transport & Ins:   0.20    1.79      1.99    0.00    2.03     2.03     (part of  1)
3. Construction       5.31    0.88      6.19    9.93    1.68    11.61     41.53    0.00     41.53     257.7
4. Overhead2          0.37    4.54      4.91    0.52    11.55    12.07    0.00    13.69     13.69     13.4
5. Institutional      0.00    0.75      0.75    0.00    1.05     1.05     0.00     1.90      1.90      80.9
Improvements
Total                 7.29    20.94    28.23   17.80   45.06    62.86     41.53    54.28    95.81      52.4
Sources of Financing
World Bank            0.00    20.94    20.94   0.00    20.94    20.94     0.00    23.06     23.06     10.1'
ANCAP                 7.29    0.00      7.29   17.80   3.35     22.79     41.53    31.22    72.75     52.5'
Supplemental Loan      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   20.77    24.92     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.0
Total:                7.29    20.94    28.23   17.80   45.06    62.86     41.53    54.28    95.81     52.4
1. Percentage computed after adding revised forecast of costs of material, etc., to revised forecast of cost
of transport and insurance.
2 Consists of expenditures on licenses, detailed engineering, preparation of procurement documents, and
start-up expenses.
3 Reflects agreed reaLlocation of loan proceeds to reduce aLlocation for interest during construction and
other finance charges.
4Percentage computed after adding revised forecast of supplemental Lending to revised forecast of ANCAP
financing.



24
Table 8. Compliance with Major Covenants
Type of      Present     Original      Revised   |                                         l
Section      Compli-       status     fulfillment   fulfillment                Description                     Remarks
ance                     date          date
A. LOAN
AGREE-
MENT
3.01(a)      Project        CD                                  ANCAP to carry the project, except for the
Implemen-                                           petroleum pricing study--Part B(iv) of the
tation                                            Project--with due diligence.
3.01(b)      Project         C                                  ANCAP to make available to the Govern-
Implemen-                                           ment funds allocated from Loan 2802-UR
tation                                            for the execution of the Government's
pricing study.
3.02        Procure-        C                                  ANCAP to procure goods and consultants
ment                                              in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.01        Manage-         C                                  ANCAP to conduct its affairs in accordance
ment &                                             with sound administrative and financial
Opera-                                            practices appropriate to the public utility
tions                                            and petroleum sectors and under the
supervision of qualified management and
staff.
4.02        Manage-         C                                  ANCAP to operate (and repair as neces-
ment &                                             sary) its plant and equipment in accordance
Opera-                                            with sound engineering and financial prac-
tions                                            tices appropriate to the public utility and
petroleum sectors.
4 04        Project         C        06.30.89      12.31.94    ANCAP to complete Part A of the Project    After effective-
Implemen-                                           (Refinery Conversion) and thereafter inform   ness, project was
tation                                            the Bank quarterly on the base line meas-  completely re-
urements.                                 designed due to
shortcomings of
original project
approach. Re-
design delayed
initial implemen-
tation to 03.91--3
months short of
initial project
completion date:
06.91. Project
cost rose to
US$95.8 mill-
ion, or almost
239% over ori-
ginal forecast of
US$28.2 million.



25
Type of       Present      Original      Revised
Section       Compli-        status     fulfillment    fulfillment                  Description                       Remarks
ance                       date          date
5.01(a)      Accounts/         C                                    ANCAP to maintain records and accounts
audits                                               of the utility and of the project; and to
maintain separate accounting records for its
fuel division.
5.01(b)(i)    Accounts/         C         06.30.89      12.31.94    ANCAP to have its records, accounts, and
audits                                               financial statements audited annually in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
5.01(b)(ii)    Accounts/        CD                                    ANCAP to furnish to the Bank, not later      Receipt of
audits                                               than six months after the end of each year:    audited financial
(a) certified copies of its financial        delays was often
statements for each year properly audited    delayed. For
and (b) the auditor's report.                example, audited
statements for
1993 were not
received until
December 1994.
5.01(b)(iii)   Accounts/         C                                    ANCAP to provide unaudited reports after
audits                                               completion of Part B (iii) not later than 3
months after the end of each year.
5.01(c)      Accounts/         C                                    ANCAP to maintain records and accounts
audits                                               of Statement of Expenditure (SOE), and
provide audited reports to the Bank.
5.02 (a)      Financial        C                                    ANCAP to incur no debt, if, after the
incurrence of such debt, the debt to equity
ratio is greater than 60/40.
5.03        Financial         C                                    ANCAP to incur no debt, if, after the
incurrence of such debt, the debt service
coverage ratio is lower than 1.3.
5.04(a,b,c)    Financial         C                                    ANCAP to: maintain a current ratio of not
less than 1.3; review financial forecasts
with the Bank before June 30 of each year
to determine if such ratio shall be met in
the current year and next succeeding year;
take the required measures if the forecasts
show that such ratio shall not be met.
5.05        Financial         C                                    ANCAP to inform the Bank promptly on
any preliminary decision to undertake any
capital expenditure estimated to cost more
than US$15 million.



26
Type of      Present     Original      Revised
Section      Compli-       status     fulfillment   fulfillment                Description                     Remarks
ance                     date          date
B. GUAR-
AN-
TEE
AGREE-
MENT
2.02      Counterpart       C                                  Government to take the take the necessary
Funding                                             action to provide ANCAP with adequate
funds to meet expenditures.
2.03        Project         C                                  Government to take all necessary measures
Implemen-                                          to expedite the import of goods or services
tation                                            required by ANCAP to execute the Project.
3.01(a)      Project         C                                  Government to carry out the petroleum     Study was
Implemen-                                           pricing study--Part B(iv) of the Project--  completed
tation                                            with due diligence and efficiency and in   satisfactorily;
conformity with appropriate administrative    final report was
practices, and shall provide the funds and  delivered to the
other resources required for its execution.  Bank (see
comment on
Section 3.02(b).
3.01(b)      Project         C                                  Government to enter into a subsidiary
Implemen-                                           relending agreement with ANCAP.
tation
3.02(a)    Procurement       C                                  Government to procure consultant services
for petroleum pricing study--Part B(iv) of
the Project--in accordance with Bank
l ___________                          ___________                guidelines.
3.02(b)      Project        CD        04.30.88     08.30.88;   Government to submit petroleum pricing     Government sub-
Implemen-                              06.17.89    study to Bank and thereafter exchange      mitted report to
tation                                            views with the Bank on its findings and    Bank on 4/16/90
recommendations.                          --almost a year
after amended
date of 06/17/89.
3.02(c)      Project        CD        09.30.88      01.30.89;   Government to submit to the Bank a dated
Implemen-                               11.17.89    plan of action based on the exchange of
tation                                            views with the Bank on the findings of the
l___________                                         petroleum pricing study.
3.03(a,b,c)    Accounts!       C                                  Government to: maintain separate records  Provision of
audits                                            and accounts on Petroleum pricing study--    audit reports on
Part B(iv) of the Project; furnish and audit   study and SOEs
report not later than four months after the  no longer
end of each year up to completion of the  required.
study; and provide an audited Statement of
l__________ _________   Expense up to completion of the study.



27
Type of      Present     Original     Revised
Section      Compli-       status    fulfillment   fulfillment               Description                     Remarks
ance                     date         date
4.01        Project        C                                  Government to provide to the Bank for
Implemen-                                          comment the report on Forestry
tation                                           Management not later than three months
after its completion.
Key: C = Covenant Complied With
CD   Complied With After Delay



28
Table 9.
Economic Justification: EquaLizing Discount Rate
Comparison: Operating the Refinery with and without the Project (Using ActuaL Investment Costs and Expected Operating Costs)
_ (in       |             1991          1992         1993         1994          1995         1996          1997         1998          1999         2000          2001         2002          2003         2004          2025         2006          2007          2008         2009          2010
1995i Pn6cn
ale    69 Redi-ry     d.o .69                                                                                            ___===
P-1, Nel                  000        0I00            000        0I0             -171.70      -17483       -179 16       -182.46       -1868        -189 13       196          -19627        -19994       -20390        -207.9       .2120         -216.25       .2319        -23570       -239.58
fliiuc                 0.00          000          0.0           007            318          -3.18        -3.18         -3.18        -3.18         -3.18        -3.18         -318         -318          -318          -3           -3.1           318         -3.18         -3.18        -3.18
Opera-                    0.07    0     .07    0      .0           -7 069                      791          -7.69         70            79           7 60          7 0          76 0                            0  769                  6 70 o  76760 070 7*60                              -7.60
To71                    0.07          0.07         0.07          00           -182.48       -185.61       189.94       193.24       -196.46        199.93      -20146        2070         -210.72        214.58      -218.72      -272983       -227.03        242.69      -246.48       -2YiO36
F-1,Nel           =       0.0           0.0           0.           00           1302          1320         15729 1926                 16205         16328        16613         16922        172.29        175099       1798          18376         07.72        20679        210.4        .21426
Ul9li9ie4                0.07           007           000          000           I 1 13        13          I 113          I 13        -1.13         -1.13         1.13          1 13          I 13        .1 13        -I 113        -1.13         -1.13        -1              13          -1.13
opwmig        D=0         0             0.000007                   0.00           760          760          7.60          760          -7            .76           760          760           760          760           760          760           760          -760         -760          -7.60
0.07          1307         .3600         0707          007           000 007                    007          0.07          0.07         07                                  00 0O00  00      007             00         0O07          0            0.007          007
Toe             =    0.07              15.00        .36.00       -57.00        -153.9f      -161 93      -166937      -167.99       -170.78       -172.01      -174.86       -17799       -181 02      -194 72       -188061       192.49       -196I45       -215.51      -219.21       -222.99
Diffenrc=                0.00         .1500          3600        -57.00          23 53       23.69         2357         25225         25.63        D.92          28059        29.10         29.71        29.86         30.10        30.34         30.58        27 18         27 27        27 37
EqiWuing    Disu Rlc  21 98%



29
Table 10.
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                          Planned                               Actual
Project                       Weeks          US$s                  Weeks         US$s
Cycle                                    (in ths.)                            (in ths.)
Preparation/Appraisal
Phase I 1
FY1984                     NA            NA                     8.4         NA
FY1985                     NA            NA                     5.4         NA
FY1986                     NA            NA                    35.3         NA
FY1987                     NA            NA                    48.32        NA
Phase II
FY1987                     NA            NA                     3.3         NA
FY1988                     NA            NA                     4.7         NA
FY1989                     NA            NA                     6.2         NA
FY1990                     NA            NA                    21.6         NA
Supervision
FY1991                     12          18.9                    17.7         NA
FY1992                     5.8           9.1                    9.0         NA
FY1993                     4.0           8.0                    8.0         NA
FY1994                    15.0         25.6                    10.6        3.9
Completion
FY1995                     5.0         14.8                     NA          NA
178.5
1. As explained earlier (see Part II, Table 3), because the project had to be completely redesigned after the Bank approved Loan
2802-UR (April 28, 1987), it is convenient to think of project preparation as being carried out in two phases. Phase I ended
when Loan 2802-UR was declared effective (December 1,1987). Phase II ended in March 1991 when the Bank, as requested, redefined
the scope of the project.
2. Includes 37.2 staff weeks devoted to appraisal, Loan processing, etc.



30
Table 1 .
Bank Missions
--  ;t----fT -4utbAr  -----          -- -  T--Days-   ------------ T-------------------------------------------
Number j p                  [lly  ays   Overall
MW'sior      |Dte            of        5pe-alty          in      Performance                             Problem
 .2LSta  j.                 _Field  j    Rating    j
Pr''p.r It on 1     06/85        3       ENGLFA;ECON        15            NA                                    NA
rs "par lf ionl 2  i'rJ'5.  2    t-N(;" A         4            NA                                   NA
<rannt'.on 2     u2/86         3          EtNG;F4         6             NA                                    NA
P.rrai ;aL           9/96         s       ENG;FA;CON        51            NA                                    NA
trJtA-PR.          11 ' 8Er                                 5            NA                                    NA
otto                                                    81
'I yj  0.I / 88           2          Ehu;;A          10             3         Major increase in scope of the project due to
unanticipated surge in demand for petroleum
products, leading to: (i) longer implementation
period; (ii) major design changes; and (iii)
cost increases due to (ii) and serious compli-
catioris concerning the source of additionaL
funding.
Nt,r,&rv'si.i n2   1 I/88       .          LNU:FA          10            --         -- 1/
s *-rvi-ou3      4 j/89       2          NCG;FA         10             3         Same as Supervision 1.
Rc reri  i-. ; *7'  921 1       3           Et-OG          15             2         All rating subcategories awarded  1" due to
resoLution of problems (ii) and (iii) above.
Overoll rating of "2" reflects two-year
deferral of project completion date to June
1994- the result of tne longer implementation
period, design changes, and increased project
scope. Bank accepted design changes and
increased project scope; but did not agree to
ANCAP's request for supplementary financing.
(ANCAP successfully undertook to provide
additional funding from its own resources.)
t)reL.onuS          G;5 3/9       *         ENC;FA           8             2         Same as above.
sup rvis:frn e      10 93        .2         ENG;FA          14             2         All rating sub-categories awarded ''1, except
those relating to compliance with legal
covenants and progress with respect to techni-
cal assistance. ANCAP was late in supplying
audited financiaL  statements; Government was
.tow in implementing recommendations of
petroleum pricirg study.
',,,,  si '    ^                      E9  ,-A         16          Satis-        Same-as above.
factory
I. tt                                                 73
1.  Bank  iles do onut contain supervision report resulting from mission of 11/88.









