Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2802 UR
                 (Refinery Modernization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
             ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE COMBUSTIBLES,
                        ALCOHOL Y PORTLAND
                        Dated July 29, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2802 UR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1987 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  ADMINISTRACION
NACIONAL DE COMBUSTIBLES, ALCOHOL Y PORTLAND (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to:  (i)  guarantee  the  obligations  of  the  Borrower in
respect of the Loan; and (ii) carry out Part B (iv) of the Project
and to  undertake  such  other  obligations  as  set  forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between  the  Guarantor  and  the  Borrower  pursuant  to the
provisions of Section 3.01 (b) and 7.01 of this Agreement; and
     (c)  "Estatutos" means the Borrower's by-laws approved by the
Guarantor's Congress and the term includes the Ley de Creacion No.
8,764 dated October 15, 1931  as  amended  up  to the date of this
Agreement, by means of which the Borrower was established.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to twenty-four
million four hundred thousand dollars ($24,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the  purposes of Parts A, B (i),
B (ii) and B (iii) of the  Project, open and maintain in dollars a
special account in Banco de  la  Republica Oriental del Uruguay on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  On  each  of  the   semiannual  interest  payment  dates
specified in Section 2.06  of  this  Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required  to  pay,  on  such date, interest and
other charges on the  Loan  accrued  and  payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to  the  amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may  be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall  be January 31, 1992 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
Page  3
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The  director  of  the  Guarantor's  Office of
Planning and Budgeting,  or  any  person  authorized in writing by
such director are  designated  as  representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any  action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of  Section  2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions  in  respect of Part B (iv) of
the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project, other
than Part B (iv) thereof, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  financial,  public
utility, petroleum industry,  and  ecological practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for  the  Project  (other than for Part B
(iv) thereof).
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  for  purposes  of  assisting the Guarantor in
carrying out Part B (iv) of  the Project, the Borrower shall enter
into an agreement, satisfactory  to  the  Bank, with the Guarantor
(the Subsidiary Agreement)  under  which  the  Borrower shall make
available to the Guarantor the proceeds of the portion of the Loan
allocated for purposes of Part B (iv) of the Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement and, except  as  otherwise agreed with the Bank,
shall  not  amend,  revoke,   abrogate  or  waive  the  Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project (other than  for  Part  B  (iv) thereof) and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.05,  9.06  and  9.07 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  use  of  services,  plans  and
schedules and records  and  reports,  respectively)  in respect of
Part B (iv) of the Project  shall  be carried out by the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, public utility  and  petroleum industry practices under
the supervision of  qualified  and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial, public utility and petroleum industry practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30,
1989, or on such other date  as the Bank shall agree, complete the
carrying out of Part A (x) of the Project; (ii) thereafter, inform
the Bank, not less  frequently  than  quarterly,  on the base line
measurements obtained with the  devices  installed under such Part
of the Project; and (iii) adopt from time to time, in consultation
with the Bank,  all  such  additional  pollution control action as
shall be required in light of such measurements.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts, including separate accounts  and  records related to the
carrying out of the Project (other  than Part B (iv) thereof) ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.  Without any limitation to the
preceding, the Borrower  shall  continue  to  maintain records and
accounts adequate to show and reflect the operations and financial
condition, respectively,  of  the  Borrower's  Combustibles (Fuel)
Division separately from  the  other  operational Divisions of the
Borrower.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have its records,  accounts  (including the Special
               Account) and financial  statements (balance sheets,
               statements  of  income  and  expenses  and  related
               statements)  for  each   fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
      (iii)    furnish to  the  Bank:  (A)  such other information
Page  5
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request and; (B)
               starting with its  fiscal  year  next following the
               completion of Part B  (iii)  of the Project or with
               its fiscal year ending December 31, 1988, whichever
               is earlier, and not  later  than three months after
               the end  of  each  fiscal  year,  unaudited balance
               sheets and statements of income and expenses and of
               sources and  application  of  funds  for  each such
               fiscal year adjusted to reflect, in accordance with
               sound accounting practices,  inflation and currency
               parity  changes,   provided   that  such  unaudited
               balance  sheets,  in  respect  of  the  fiscal year
               ending December 31, 1988,  may  be furnished to the
               Bank not later than October 31, 1989.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and  accounts  reflecting such ex-
               penditures;
       (ii)    retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt  to equity shall be greater than sixty
to forty.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
     (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
            maturing by its terms on  demand or more than one year
            after the date on which it is originally incurred.
    (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to  be incurred: (A) under a loan
            contract or  agreement  or  other instrument providing
            for such debt or for  the modification of its terms of
            payment on the  date  of  such  contract, agreement or
            instrument; and (B)  under  a  guarantee agreement, on
            the date the  agreement  providing  for such guarantee
            has been entered into.
   (iii)    The  term  "equity"  means   the   sum  of  the  total
            unimpaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings  and
            reserves  of  the  Borrower  not  allocated  to  cover
            specific liabilities.
    (iv)    Whenever for the purposes of  this Section it shall be
            necessary to value, in  terms  of  the currency of the
            Guarantor,  debt  payable  in  another  currency, such
Page  6
            valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
            lawful rate of exchange  at  which such other currency
            is, at the time of  such valuation, obtainable for the
            purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
            such  rate,  on  the  basis  of  a  rate  of  exchange
            acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and  expenditures  of  the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to  be  incurred  shall be at least 1.3 times
the estimated debt service  requirements  of  the Borrower in such
year on  all  debt  of  the  Borrower  including  the  debt  to be
incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)    The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by  its  terms  on demand or more
               than  one  year  after  the  date  on  which  it is
               originally incurred.
       (ii)    Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payments on the date of such contract,
               agreements or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
      (iii)    The term "net revenues  of  the Borrower" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  of  the  Borrower  and net non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    of  the   Borrower  including  administration,
                    adequate maintenance,  taxes  and  payments in
                    lieu of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
       (iv)    The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (v)    The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
       (vi)    The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by the  Borrower  not  earlier than twelve
               months prior to the incurrence of the debt in ques-
               tion, which both the  Bank  and the Borrower accept
               as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
               the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition  or  future   operating  results  of  the
               Borrower.
Page  7
      (vii)    Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain a  ratio  of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.3.
     (b)  Before the end  of  the  second  quarter  in each of its
fiscal years,  the  Borrower  shall,  on  the  basis  of forecasts
prepared by the  Borrower  and  satisfactory  to  the Bank, review
whether it would meet the  requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
of this Section in  respect  of  such  year and the next following
fiscal year and shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the results of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet the requirments set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's
fiscal year covered by  such  review,  the Borrower shall promptly
take  all  necessary   measures  (including,  without  limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels  of its prices) in order to
meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts    receivable,    marketable   securities,
               inventories   and    pre-paid   expenses   properly
               chargeable to  operating  expenses  within the next
               fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt  service requir-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.05. The Borrower shall  inform the Bank promptly on
any preliminary  decision  to  undertake  any  capital expenditure
estimated to cost  more  than  the  equivalent  of $15,000,000 and
shall afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to express its
views before the Borrower  makes  a final decision about incurring
such expenditure. For purposes of  this Section, the term "capital
expenditures" means all expenditures  incurred on account of fixed
assets, including  interest  charged  to  construction, related to
operations.
Page  8
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified.
     (a)  the Guarantor or the Borrower  shall have failed to com-
ply with any of  its  respective  obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement;
     (b)  the Estatutos shall have  been  modified so as to affect
adversely the execution of  the  Project  (other  than Part B (iv)
thereof),  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof,  or the
financial condition of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the task force established  pursuant to Section 7.01 (b)
of this  Agreement  has  been  disbanded  or  the responsibilities
thereof diminished so as to  affect adversely the execution of the
Project (other than Part B (iv) thereof).
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event  specified  in  paragraph  (a)  or paragraph (b) of
Section 6.01  of  this  Agreement  shall  have  occurred and shall
continue for a period  of  sixty  days  after  the Bank shall have
given notice thereof to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed and
delivered on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  that the Borrower has established, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank,  a  task  force that will be responsible
for all daily activities  connected  with  the carrying out of the
Project (other than Part B(iv) thereof).
     Section 7.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been
authorized or ratified by  all  Governmental  or corporate, as the
case may be, action required for  the purpose, and that is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with its
terms.
     Section  7.03.  The  date  of  October  27,  1987  is  hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  8.01.  The  General   Manager  of  the  Borrower  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
Page  9
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Administracion Nacional de
            Combustibles Alcohol y Portland
          Paysandu y Avda. Libertador Brig.
            Gral. Lavalleja
          Montevideo - Uruguay
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ANCAP                            23168 ANCAP UY
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE COMBUSTIBLES,
                        ALCOHOL Y PORTLAND
                    By /s/ Hector Luisi
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods directly          12,780,000         100% of foreign
     procured by the                            expenditures,
     Borrower or                                100% of local
     procured by an                             expenditures
     agency thereof                             (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for
                                                imported goods
                                                procured locally
Page  10
(2)  License or know how      4,510,000         100% of foreign
     fees and engineering                       expenditures
     and project manage-
     ment services
(3)  Works (including           880,000         100% of foreign
     professional fees)                         expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  (a)  Consultants'             670,000      100% of local
          services other                        expenditures
          than for Part B                       for services
          (iv) of the                           of consultants
          Project                               residing within
                                                the territory of
     (b)  Consultants'              80,000      the Guarantor
          services for                          and 100% of
          Part B (iv) of                        foreign expendi-
          the Project                           tures for ser-
                                                vices of other
                                                consultants
(5)  Interest and                3,480,000      Amounts due pur-
     other charges                              suant to Section
     on the Loan                                2.02 (c) of this
     accrued on                                 Agreement
     or before
     May 31, 1991
(6) Unallocated                 2,000,000
                               __________
      TOTAL
                               24,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is to reduce the overall econo-
mic cost of  supply  of  petroleum  products  in Uruguay to levels
comparable to international prices.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Refinery Conversion
     Consists of: (i) converting  the current dense-bed configura-
tion Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC) unit into riser-cracking tech-
nology, increasing its fresh-feed  capacity from 5,500 barrels per
Page  11
day to  about  8,200  barrels  per  day;  (ii) debottlenecking the
largest of the  vacuum  distillation  units, primarily by changing
column  internals,   and   increasing   its   processing  capacity
consistent with the expanded  (FCC)  unit; (iii) converting one of
the   smaller   distillation   trains,   presently   unused,  into
visbreaking  service   to   process   the   residues  from  vacuum
distillation into higher-value distillates;  (iv) installing a new
unit for  kerosene  treatment;  (v)  changing  the  current middle
distillates (kerosene and gas  oil)  treatment unit into straight-
run gas  oil  and  FCC  product  cycle  oil  treatment  unit; (vi)
revamping and expanding capacity of gas recovery and fractionation
unit; (vii) replacing worn-out  main  water  supply pipelines by a
new, single larger-diameter  line;  (viii)  replacing  some of the
old, energy-inefficient process  heaters  by new higher-efficiency
ones and installing heat-energy  recovery systems in certain other
process and utility heaters;  (ix) installing improved systems for
process effluent treatment facilities,  and installing two new oil
separators for tank-farm effluents, and (x) installing measurement
devices for flow and quality of liquid and aerial effluents.
Part B:   Institutional Improvement
i.   Improvement of the  Borrower's  capabilities  in the areas of
crude  oil  procurement  and  petroleum  products  imports/exports
trading;
ii.  Enhancement of the  Borrower's  refinery planning and produc-
tion control  by  means  of  the  introduction  and utilization of
linear programming modelling techniques;
iii. Development and putting into  effect  of new accounting, bud-
geting  and  management  information  systems  for  the Borrower's
operation, which, inter alia, will  also be able to reflect infla-
tion and currency parity changes; and
iv.  Development and establishment  of  revised ex-refinery petro-
leum products pricing and  crude  import tariff systems, geared to
encourage operational efficiency.
           *          *          *          *          *
     The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
     beginning December 1, 1990
     through   December 1, 2001                       1,015,000
On June 1, 2002                                       1,055,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
Page  12
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for any contract  in  respect of detailed engineering
and construction and start-up works  for  Part A of the Project or
provision of agency services for  the Borrower for the procurement
of goods related to the carrying out  of Part A of the Project, or
both, will be prequalified as  described  in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3.   To the extent practicable,  goods  for  Part A of the Project
shall be grouped in procurement packages estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uruguay may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods for Part A of the Project: (i) which are proprietary in
nature and can be obtained from  a limited number of sources; (ii)
the supply of which at a  given  time is critical for an efficient
execution of the Project;  and  (iii)  which  cannot be grouped in
packages estimated to cost the  equivalent of $50,000 or more, may
be procured under contracts  awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the  basis  of  evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a  list  of  at  least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines  and  in  accordance with the proce-
dures set forth in Section  I  and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,  2.55  and  2.56 thereof); provided, however,
that the aggregate of  the  contracts  so awarded shall not exceed
the equivalent of $3,000,000.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for Part A of the Project
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $50,000 or more, the proce-
dures set forth in paragraphs 2 and  4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account,  such  procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of stat-
ements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be  retained  in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in the basic engineering for
Part A of the Project and  in  the  carrying  out of Part B of the
Project (other than  B  (iv)  thereof),  the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be  satisfactory  to the Bank. Such con-
sultants shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category  means  each of the  Catego-
ries, other than Category (4) (b), set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A and Part B (other  than  B  (iv))  of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories  in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equi-
valent to $5,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
Page  14
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  If payments out of the Special Account are to be made in
respect of expenditures  in  a  currency  or currencies other than
dollars, the rate  of  exchange  to  be  applied  shall be the one
prevailing at the  time  the  eligible expenditures were incurred,
except that, if the  expenditures  in  question were incurred more
than ninety  days  before  the  corresponding  payment  out of the
Special Account is made, the  rate of exchange applicable shall be
the one prevailing at the time such payment is made.
     (b)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account under the re-
spective eligible  Categories,  and  in  the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showingthat such payment 
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, the Bank may deny any request for a further deposit into
the  Special  Account  when  either  of  the  following situations
arises:
        (i)    the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section  5.02  of the General Con-
               ditions with respect to  Part  A  and Part B (other
               than B (iv)) of the  Project, shall be equal to the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
Page  15
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount  for  crediting  to  the  Loan  Account for its
immediate cancellation.
