Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2802 UR
                 (Refinery Modernization Project)
                              between
                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 29, 1987
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2802 UR
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  29,  1987,  between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL
DEL  URUGUAY   (the   Guarantor)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  Administracion  Nacional de
Combustibles,  Alcohol  y  Portland  (the  Borrower),  having been
satisfied as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  the Loan Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank  has  agreed to extend to the Bor-
rower a loan in various  currencies equivalent to twenty-four mil-
lion four hundred thousand dollars ($24,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to  guarantee the obligations of the Bor-
rower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  the Guarantor shall carry out Part B (iv) of the Project
as provided hereinafter and  for  such  purposes, a portion of the
Loan shall be made available  to  the Guarantor upon the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of  the  Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations towards the Bank as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modification set forth in Section  1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  General  Conditions and in Section
1.02 of the Loan  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and  the  term  "Forestry  Management  Study" means the
study being carried out  by  the Guarantor's Direccion Nacional de
Energia.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the  Guarantor  hereby   unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary
obligor and not as surety merely,  the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punct-
ual performance of all the  other obligations of the Borrower, all
as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01  or  of  Article III of this Agreement,
the Guarantor specifically  undertakes,  whenever there is reason-
able cause to believe  that  the  funds  available to the Borrower
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
the carrying out of the Project  (other than Part B (iv) thereof),
to make arrangements, satisfactory  to  the Bank, promptly to pro-
vide the Borrower or cause  the  Borrower to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
     Section 2.03. Without in any  way limiting or restricting the
generality  of  the  preceding   Sections  of  this  Article,  the
Guarantor shall, pursuant to  its  imports  regulations take, in a
timely fashion, all such measures  or  steps as shall be necessary
or  convenient  to  expedite,   to  the  extent  practicable,  any
proceedings initiated  by  the  Borrower  in  connection  with the
imports of goods or  services  required  for  the execution of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE III
              Execution of Part B (iv) of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor  shall  carry out Part B (iv)
of the Project through its  Office of Planning and Budgeting, with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative practices, and  shall  provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
Part B (iv) of the Project.
     (b)  Without limiting or  restricting  the  generality of the
provisions of  paragraph  (a)  above,  the  Guarantor, through its
Office of Planning  and  Budgeting  shall  enter with the Borrower
Page  3
into  the  Subsidiary   Agreement,   shall   exercise  its  rights
thereunder and shall  not,  except  if  otherwise  agreed with the
Bank, amend, revoke, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the consultants' services  required for Part B (iv)
of the Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agree-
ment.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall  cause  the aforesaid consultants to
submit, by April 30, 1988, the final report concerning Part B (iv)
of the Project and shall  promptly thereafter, exchange views with
the Bank on the findings and recommendations of such report.
     (c)  By September 30, 1988,  the  Guarantor shall prepare and
submit to the Bank a  plan  of  action, with a timetable therefor,
which takes into consideration the findings and recommendations of
such study and the aforementioned exchange of views.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  Part  B  (iv) of the
Project  of  the   departments   or   agencies  of  the  Guarantor
responsible for carrying out such Part of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
      (i)      have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)      furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)      furnish to the Bank  such other information concer-
               ning said records and accounts and the audit there-
               of as the Bank  shall  from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditures, the Guarantor shall:
     (i)       maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
    (ii)       retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
   (iii)       enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
    (iv)       ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such  fiscal  year,  together  with the pro-
               cedures and  internal  controls  involved  in their
Page  4
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor  shall  carry out the obligations
set  forth  in  Sections  9.05,  9.06  and  9.07  of  the  General
Conditions (relating to use  of  services, plans and schedules and
records and reports,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Guarantee
Agreement and Part B (iv) of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01.  The  Guarantor  shall,  not  later  than three
months upon completion of  the  Forestry Management Study, furnish
to the Bank for comments a  copy  of such report, and shall afford
the Bank a  reasonable  opportunity  to  express  its views on the
findings and recommendations of such  report related to the energy
sector.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
          Colonia 1089
          Montevideo, Uruguay
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               MINECON                          6269 MINECON UY
               Montevideo, Uruguay
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                     By /s/ Hector Luisi
                                       Authorized Representative
Page  5
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                         Regional Vice President
                                     Latin America and Caribbean
                             SCHEDULE
                       Consultants' Services
     In order to assist the Guarantor  in carrying out Part B (iv)
of the  Project,  the  Guarantor  shall  employ  consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
