Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14401-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =     Ethiopia Birr
US$1.00                   =     Birr 6.3 (at appraisal)
Birr 1.00                       US$0.15
US$1                      =     SDR 1.49021 (as of 11/30/95)
Government Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7
Weights and Measures
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAIIUDP            Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project
AMWTI        =     Arba Minch Water Technical Institute
AWSA         =     Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
CIS          =     Computer Information System
ERRP         =     Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project
EU           =     European Union
EVDSA        =     Ethiopia Valleys Development Study Authority
EWWCA        =     Ethiopian Water Works Construction Authority
FINNIDA    =       Finnish International Development Agency
GFDRE              Government of Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
IFAD         =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
MNRDEP             Ministry of Natural Resources Development Environmental
Protection
MOH          =     Ministry of Health
MOWR         =     Ministry of Water Resources
MTDP         =     Market Towns Development Project
MWUD         =     Ministry of Works and Urban Development
NGO          =     Non-Governmental Organization
NMSA         =     National Meteorological Service Agency
NRDEPB             Natural Resources Development and Environmental
Protection Bureau
O&M          =     Operation and Maintenance
RWS          =     Rural Water Supply
SEPRA        =     Southern Ethiopia People's Regional Administration
SIDA               Swedish International Development Agency
TA           =     Technical Assistance
UNCDF        =     United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF       =     United Nations Children's Fund
WHO          =     World Health Organization
WRDA         =     Water Resource Development Authority
WSSA         =     Water Supply and Sewerage Agency
WWCE         =     Water Works Construction Enterprise
WWDA               Water Well Drilling Agency



ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................. (i)
L BACKGROUND .............................................                                                        1
A. SECTOR OVERVIEW  AND OBJECTIVES .......................................................                        I
B. SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS .............................                                   ............................. 2
C. ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS ............................                                                           5
D. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ............................ 8
E. 1PLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED ............................................ 11
11. THE PROJECT .............................................                                                   13
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND RATIONALE FOR IDA  INVOLVEMENT .................. .............                           13
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................... 13
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS DESCRIPTION ...................                       .................................... 13
D. COST ESTIMATES ....................................................... 2 1
E. FINANCING .......................................................                                            23
F. PROCUREMENT .......................................................                                          23
G. DISBURSEMENT .......................................................                                         26
MII. IMPLEMENTATION  ............................................. 28
A. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION ....................................................... 28
B. PROJECT MONITORING AND MID-TERM  REVIEW  ....................................................... 3 1
C. WATER TARIFF AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ....................................................... 32
IV. PROJECT JUSTI CATION  ............................................. 37
A. MAIN BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES .......................................................                      37
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................................                                    38
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .......................................................                                 42
D. SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................                                       43
E. PROJECT RISKS .......................................................                                        43
V. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATION  .............................................   44
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Ethiopia from November 30-December 20, 1994. The
mission was led by Mr. T. Kainata (Financial Analyst and Task Manager) and included Mr. B. Almassy (Senior
Urban Engineer), Mrs. C. Jones (Operations Analyst), Mr. T. Lium (Rural Water Supply Specialist), Mr. E.
Moudoud (Institutional Capacity Building Specialist), Mrs. K. Ruiz (Economist) and Mr. Kenji Yoshida
(Management Information System Specialist). Mr. L. Rasmusson (MN2PI) was the lead advisor and Mr. Guillermo
Yepes (TWUWS) was the peer reviewer. Mmes. J. Littleford and B. Coronado-Garcia provided secretarial support.
Mr. S. Weissman and Mr. J. Adams are the Division Chief and Director, respectively, for the operation.



List of Annexes
I - Letter of Sector Policy
2 - List of Major Urban Water Supply Schemes
3 - Description of MOWR
4 - Description of AWSA
5 - Activities of Donors
6 - List of Vehicles & Equipment for AWSA and Regions
7 - Disbursement Table
8 - Monitoring Indicators
9 - Supervision Mission Plan
10 - AWSA New Tariffs as of May 1995
11 - AWSA Financial Projections
12 - Cost Benefit Analysis
13 - Documents Available in Project File
Map - IBRD 26859



(i)
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Ethiopia
Implementing Agencies:   Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR)
Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA)
Regional Governments of Tigray, Afar, Amhara, Oromia,
Somali, Benshangul, Southern Ethiopia People's and Harar
Beneficiary:              Not applicable
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                   SDR 24 million (US$35.73 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:           0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:           See para 2.10
Economic Rate of Return: 18.4% for water supply rehabilitation and capacity building
components (23% of total project costs). NPV of those
components, at a 12% discount rate, is US$10.6 million;
benefit/cost ratio is 1.27.
Map:                      IBRD No. 26859






I. BACKGROUND
A. SECTOR OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES
1.01   The water supply and sanitation sector in Ethiopia is characterized by: i) severe
deficiency of physical infrastructure for provision of water supply and sanitation services;
and ii) inadequate managing capacity in the sector institutions to handle policy and
regulatory issues, and to plan, operate and maintain the water supply and sanitation
services. This is, in part, a result of underinvestments and inadequate financial policy in
the sector during the twenty-year civil war.
1.02  Rehabilitation and Improvement of the Sector Infrastructure: The physical
need in the water supply and sanitation sector is overwhelming. Investments in the sector
were severely depressed during the previous regime. Access to sufficient and safe water
supply is very limited; only about 17 percent of the total population has safe potable
water, and sanitation service coverage is even lower. Water supply coverage in urban
areas, where some 10 percent of the population lives, is better (about 70 - 90%), but with
significant inequalities in the larger towns, especially Addis Ababa, where over half of the
people live in areas which have serious deficiencies in basic infrastructure and little or no
access to municipal services. Even the existing schemes are suffering from low production
level and high leakage of water. Of some 200 urban water supply schemes, serving 3
million people (including the satellite schemes), 80 percent require major rehabilitation or
additional construction. Currently, only 22 schemes are newly constructed, 7 are under
construction for additional capacity and 12 are under rehabilitation (the list of main urban
water supply schemes are attached in Annex 2). Of more than 6,000 rural water supply
schemes serving 17 million people, some 30 percent are not functioning properly due to
lack of maintenance. Water quality is also poor: problems include high bacterial pollution,
high fluorine and mineral content, salinity, and the existence of guinea worm.  The
population in Ethiopia desperately needs safe water and sanitation facilities to improve
health and raise productivity. The Government of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia
(GFDRE) plans to undertake this task, first, by carrying out emergency rehabilitation;
second, by building new water supply schemes for which engineering designs have already
been completed; and finally, by undertaking engineering studies for future expansion of
water supply operations. The emergency rehabilitation of the war affected northern part
of the country is already underway with support from the Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Project (ERRP, Cr. 2351-ET); GFDRE would now like to start the
nationwide rehabilitation and improvement of water and sanitation facilities. A list of
projects in GFDRE water sector development plan is available in the Project File.
1.03   Capacity Building of the Sector Institutions: A basic condition for the success
of such a program is the development of adequate capacity in the water supply and
sanitation institutions. These include: the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR); the
Regional Governments and Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA); and
other related Ministries and their affiliated institutions.



2
1.04  Subsequent to the devolution of power to the Regional Governments in 1993,
water supply and sanitation operations, which had previously been managed by central
water agencies, are being decentralized to the Regional Governments. Details of sector
institutions and the regionalization exercises are provided in the Section B (Sector
Organizations).
1.05  The new institutional structure brought about the urgent need for human resource
development and capacity building. For some of the Regions, transfer of personnel from
the central institutions to the Regional Government has been carried out on a limited scale,
and most of the Regional Governments do not have the experience to manage water
supply and sanitation schemes.  The newly-established MOWR requires additional
qualified personnel to effectively handle regulatory issues.
1.06  Management capacity in the water supply sector institutions is inadequate to
conduct sound sector planning efficiently, operate and maintain the operations, or ensure
their financial viability.  Most of the central institutions lacked sufficient  qualified
personnel: for example, 80 percent of the employees of the Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority (the precursor of the Water Supply and Sewerage Agency - WSSA), were semi-
skilled or unskilled workers. Financial management of the Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority and AWSA was very weak: the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority never
completed a consolidated financial statement for its operations until 1993.
1.07  Sector Objectives:  The main objectives of the sector, which are stipulated in
GOE's transitional economic policy and incorporated in IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy, are to improve the health and productivity of the populations and to ensure the
long-term viability of water supply and sanitation operations in line with the Government's
regionalization policies.  These objectives would be met by: (a) rehabilitation and
improvement of the water supply and sanitation infrastructure and operations; and (b)
capacity building of the Regional Administrations and water supply and sanitation sector
institutions. The achievement of the sector objectives would greatly contribute to the
alleviation of poverty, the primary development objective for the country, through better
health and higher productivity of the population, capacity development, income and
employment generation, and private sector development. GFDRE intends to achieve these
objectives initially through rehabilitation of existing water supply schemes, and then
through construction of new water supply schemes.
B. SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS
1.08  Prior to the Government's policy of regionalization, the Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority had responsibility for planning, implementing, operating and
maintaining water supply and urban sewerage systems throughout the country, except in
Addis Ababa which had its own independent authority, AWSA.  Water resource
assessment and planning was carried out at two institutions, the Water Resource
Development Authority (WRDA) and the Ethiopia Valleys Development Study Authority
(EVDSA). There were two Government engineering and construction institutions under



3
the Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MWUD): the Ethiopian Water Works
Construction Authority (EWWCA) and the Water Well Drilling Agency (WWDA). The
Ministry of Health (MOH) provided health education and rural sanitation, and supervised
some small scale rural water supply schemes. All the sector institutions reported to the
Water Resource Commission, which coordinated and supervised all the sector issues and
institutions.
1.09  In 1992, a new policy of regionalization of the government structure was
established by issuance of the NationaVRegional Self-Governments Establishment
Proclamation No. 7/1992. This policy was to provide greater autonomy for the regional
governments. Under this policy, a new institutional structure of government emerged
("Definition of Powers and Duties of the Central and Regional Executive Organs of the
Transitional Government of Ethiopia Proclamation No. 41/1993").  At the central
government level, a new ministry in charge of overall natural resource management and
environmental management, the Ministry of Natural Resource Development and
Environmental Protection  (MNRDEP), was established.   The Water Resource
Commission was abolished and its responsibility for supervising sector institutions was
assigned to the MNRDEP. For water resource management (at the central level), WRDA
and EVDSA were merged into one organization. WSSA focused on providing technical
support for the Regional Governments. At the operational level, the Natural Resources
Development and Environmental Protection Bureaus (NRDEPB) of the Regional
Governments have taken over the managing responsibilities for water supply and
sanitation operations from the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority, except in Addis
Ababa where AWSA still remains an independent organization under the Region 14
Government.
1.10  In August 1995, following establishment of the Federal Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia, GFDRE restructured all the ministries. MNRDEP was restructured to focus on
water resource management and water supply and sewerage regulations, and a new
Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) was established. Most of the NRDEPs of the
Regional Governments were restructured to the Water, Mines and Energy Bureaus.
WSSA and WRDA were dismantled and their duties and functions were absorbed into
various departments of MOWR.
1.11  Thus, the following institutions are currently involved in the sector: (a) MOWR
and its associated central sector institutions; (b) the Water, Mines and Energy Bureaus of
the Regional Governments; and (c) other ministries involved in the provision of sanitation
services.  In addition, there are several donors and more than twenty active non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) involved in provision of small scale rural water
supply services. The mandate and functions of these institutions are given below:
1.12  Central Government Institutions: The mandate and functions of MOWR and its
associated central sector institutions are as follows.



4
(a)   Central Government Institutions:
*     MOWR has taken over the mandate and functions of MNRDEP,
WSSA and WRDA and is now in charge of water resource
management, policy formulation and regulation of the water sector,
provision of technical assistance to the Regional Governments,
studies on regulation and protection of water, design and
construction of dams and large-scale irrigation projects, and
development of master plans for river basins. Many technical staff
from MTNRDEP, WSSA and WRDA have been incorporated into
MOWR, providing continuity in its operations and its contacts with
agencies such as the World Bank; nevertheless, being a new
Ministry, it still has to organize its internal structure, recruit
additional qualified personnel and initiate a wide range of activities.
Details are in Annex 3 and its human resources are included in the
Project File.
the National Meteorological Service Agency (NMSA) conducts
surveys and studies of climatic and atmospheric conditions
throughout the country.
(b)   Regional Governments and AWSA:
the Regional Governments have taken  over the managing
responsibility for water supply and sanitation operations.  A
description of the Regional Governments and their human resources
are presented in the Project File.
AWSA. AWSA provides water supply services and waste water
and sludge disposal services for Addis Ababa under the Region 14
Government. A detailed description of AWSA is in Annex 4 and its
human resources are presented in the Project File.
(c)   Other Ministries and Institutions:
MWUJD used to provide urban sanitation services (except sewerage
operations) through the municipalities. Its future relations with the
Regional Governments are yet to be established. MWUD also
supervises WWCE and WWDA (see below).
*     the  Water Works  Construction  Enterprise  (WWCE),  an
independent government-owned construction contractor for major
water and irrigation works, is a new enterprise formed from the
EWWCA under the "Waterworks Construction Enterprise
Establishment, Council of Ministers Regulation No. 156/1994."



S
*     WWDA is a small autonomous government-owned contractor for
drilling water wells in urban and rural areas under the MWIJD; it is
expected to be corporatized, and eventually privatized.
*     MOH provides health education, rural sanitation and supervises
some small scale rural water supply schemes.
1.13 Other Donors and NGOs. A number of donors and NGOs are active in the water
supply and sanitation sector in Ethiopia. The African Development Bank, the European
Union, KfW (Germany) and UNDP are the major donors in the urban water supply sector.
In the rural sector, Sweden, Canada, GTZ (Germany) and UNICEF have been most
active. Finland has recently begun a four-year rural water supply program. Other donors
involved in the sector include Japan, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium. Further details
on the activities of the major donors are given in Annex 5.
1.14 NGOs are also active participants in the water supply and sanitation sector in most
regions of the country and have made a substantial contribution to providing safe water
and improving sanitation. Some forty churches and humanitarian organizations work in
the sector under the overall umbrella of the Christian Relief and Development Association.
In general, the NGOs have adopted low cost technologies such as boreholes, handdug
wells, hand and motorized pumps, protected springs, ponds, micro dams and latrines;
several have also experimented with alternative technologies such as solar power,
windmills and rainwater harvesting systems. Individual NGOs tend to concentrate on
specific areas of the country (e.g. Norwegian Church Aid in SEPRA; Oxfam in SEPRA
and Afar; Hope International in SEPRA and Somali; and Water Aid in Oromia, SEPRA
and Amhara).
C. ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS
1.15 Four main issues hamper GEDRE' s achievement of its sector objectives: (i) delays
in preparation of the water resources assessment and master plan and establishing the
regulatory framework (ii) lack of capacity in the new institutional structure, (iii)
inadequate cost recovery; and (iv) insufficient donor coordination.
1.16 Delays in Preparing the Water Resources Assessment and Master Plan and
Establishing the Regulatory Framework: Ethiopia has eight major river basins: Tekeze,
Abay, Awash, Wabi-Shebele, Genale, Rift Valley, Omo-Gibe and Baro. The Tekeze, the
Abay and the Baro are tributaries of the whole Nile basin, which has Sudan, Egypt and
Eritrea as co-riparians. The Abay (the Blue Nile) is by far the dominant river basin, whose
run-off is estimated at 52 million cubic meters, or half the total volume of river run-off in
Ethiopia. Brief summary statistics are included in the Project File.
1.17 Ethiopia has not yet completed a comprehensive national water resource master
plan. Preparation of such a plan will be initiated soon, with assistance from a bilateral
donor. Preparation of water resource master plans for the major river basins has been in



6
progress to varying degrees: studies or recruitment of experts have been initiated for most
of the major river basins. For Tekeze river basin, a consultant teamn has been selected and
work has been initiated. For Abay basin, a consultant team has been selected and
mobilization is under way. For Awash basin, the surface water study has already been
undertaken. For Wabi-Shebele basin, preparation of a master plan is scheduled for 1996.
For Genale basin, preliminary capacity assessment has been undertaken. For Rift Valley
basin, a preliminary survey has been prepared and a study will be initiated soon. For
Omo/Gibe basin, preparation of a master plan is under way. For Baro river basin, the
lower portion of the basin has been studied and data for the upper portion is being
collected. GFDRE intends to share information with IDA once the national water resource
master plan is completed. The establishment of a water resources management policy and
strategies would facilitate future IDA assistance for major physical investments related to
the use of water.
1.18  The regulatory mechanism to reflect the new policies addressed in the Letter of
Sector Policy and the new administrative system in the water supply and sanitation sector
have not yet been established. Currently, two proclamations have been issued: the "Water
Resources Utilization Proclamation No. 92/1994" which defines the administration of
water allocation, rights and permits; and the "Definition of Power and Duties of the
Central and Regional Executive Organs of the Transitional Government of Ethiopia
Proclamation No. 41/1993" which defines the powers and duties of, among others,
MNRDEP (the precursor of MOWR) and the NRDEPBs of the Regional Governments.
However, establishment of a regulatory framework, covering the introduction of full cost
recovery principles, efficient allocation of water resources across the regions, and the
possible future participation by the private sector and the public, is imperative. The
regulatory framework should also include standard of service, water quality and
environmental protection, market entry and exit, financial viability of utility operations,
incentives and disincentives for performance, control of monopoly and enforcement
provisions.
1.19  Lack of Capacity in the Institutional Structure: The institutional structure in
the sector has been defined, including relations between MOWR and the Regional
Governments and awaiting issuance of proclamations.   Although  the Regional
Governments have, de facto, taken over the responsibilities and the claims for revenues
from the operations and maintenance of urban and rural water supply and sanitation
schemes, critical issues remain undefined, including the roles of the sector institutions,
functions of the water supply units (ex-WSSA branches) vis-a-vis the Water, Mines and
Energy Bureaus of the Regional Governments, management of cross-regional water
resources, and relations with budgetary system of the Regional Administrations. The
Regional Governments also lack management capacity and human resources at this stage.
Many of the Regional Governments have not yet established their human resource
requirements or filled the authorized positions. Their capacity needs to be developed as
soon as possible to facilitate a smooth transition of water supply and sanitation operations
from the central authorities. GFDRE's commitment to formalization of the institutional



7
setup has been confirmed by the Letter of Sector Policy. The letter of sector policy is
attached in Annex 1.
1.20  Inadequate Cost Recovery:   Ethiopia's water and sewerage tariffs are
considerably lower than the economic costs of the water supply and sewerage operations.
Tariffs for most of the water supply schemes have not been revised for more than 15 years
and are not sufficient to cover operation and maintenance expenses, let alone capital
investments. Of the major urban water supply schemes whose tariffs are known, over
eighty percent have water tariffs equal to or less than ETB 1.0 per cubic meter for private
connections and public water points, which is not sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance expenses. In Addis Ababa, the uniform water supply tariff of ETBO.5 per
cubic meter has been applied to all the customers without differentiation for 43 years,
which has led AWSA to become a financially weak institution. A high proportion of the
rural water supply schemes are not functioning, since cost recovery has drawn little
attention of communities and donors. The tariffs for major water supply schemes are
shown in Annex I and detailed description of tariffs and financial management of water
supply operations in the Project towns of the Regions is in paras. 3.15-3.29.
1.21   GFDRE has agreed in principle that water supply and sewerage tariffs should
reflect adequate economic cost and that the cost recovery principles should be
implemented over time. In the context of the Third Policy Framework Paper dated
October 18, 1994, GFDRE has already established guidelines for pricing and cost recovery
for water supply and sanitation operations. The Regional Governments have agreed to
implement the new water tariffs. Some tariff increases have already been effected in towns
where new schemes or augmentations have been completed according to the guidelines for
water pricing issued in January 1995. For example, Aykel in Amhara Region and Moyale
in Oromia Region now have tariffs of ETBI5.0 for private connections and public water
points.
1.22  The "Basic Principles and Guidelines for Water Tariff Study" issued by the
Government in January 1995 and approved by the Council of Ministers in May 1995,
provides principles for pricing to achieve efficient allocation of economic resources,
ensure social objectives of fairness and equity and meet financial requirements for utility
operations. The efficient allocation of economic resources will be achieved through
improvement in operational efficiency, rehabilitation of existing systems and development
of least cost solutions.  The social objectives will be achieved by elimination of
government subsidies to utility entities and introduction of cross-subsidization among
different consumption and income groups, with phasing over 8-10 years, taking into
account the ability to pay of the various groups. The financial needs of the utilities will be
met by full recovery of investment costs, debt services, depreciation and operation and
maintenance costs; and by establishment of appropriate financial targets.
1.23   Agreement has been reached on the tariff increases required to meet the financial
covenants under the ongoing IDA-financed urban projects. Revised water tariffs have
been implemented for: (i) Assela and Shashemane in Oromia Region to comply with



8
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement of the Market Towns Development Project
(MTDP) (Cr. 2103-ET); and (ii) Addis Ababa by AWSA to comply with Section 4.02 of
Project Agreement of the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project (AAIIUDP)
(Cr. 2161-ET).  It was also agreed that tariff revisions to recover operation and
maintenance costs would be implemented for all the project towns by June 30, 1998.
1.24  GFDRE's Relations with Donors: Donor coordination in the sector has been
inadequate. Generally, assistance has focused on physical construction and maintenance
of water supply schemes in individual towns or regions and there has not been consistent
consideration of overall sector policies. ADB, CIDA, IDA and KfW have separately
financed engineering design, rehabilitation and construction of urban water supply
schemes for towns in various Regions.  ADB, EU, IDA and Italy have financed
engineering designs and expansion of Addis Ababa water supply and sewerage systems,
responding to requests for assistance from AWSA. GTZ, IDA JICA, UNDP and
UNICEF have individually provided capacity building technical assistance in operations
improvement and sector policy establishment for the sector institutions. For NGOs, there
is an active forum  in Addis Ababa organized  by an NGO, Christian Relief and
Development Association, for periodic information exchange among NGOs in the country.
To date, however, involvement of Ethiopian authorities has been limited and issues such as
standardization of equipment have remained unsolved.
1.25  To establish etYective donor coordination, GFDRE will actively coordinate
dialogue with donors and sector stakeholders and, inform them of sector policy issues and
mobilization of the necessary financial resources required for future sector investments.
There has been some initiatives taken by the donors: UNICEF has conducted research to
collect information on donor and NGO activities in the water supply and sanitation sector.
An initial donor coordination workshop will be held by GFDRE in June 199'6 with
assistance from  an IDA project team.  Follow-on consultative meetings v. ould be
organized bi-annually during project implementation to facilitate GFDRF.'s donor
coordination.
D. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.26  The Country Assistance Strategy for Ethiopia was discussed by the Executive
Directors on June 16, 1995. The central objective of the Bank's program of assistance for
Ethiopia is the reduction of poverty through a combination of sustainable economic
growth and employment generation; improvements in basic social services; and special
targeted measures to improve income, self reliance and quality of life for the poorest
groups and communities. Economic growth is the essential basis of a long-term strategy
to reduce poverty through increased employment and food production. The aim of the
Bank's program is to promote this growth through: support for a policy framework that
will stimulate production, export, and private sector growth; a reliable flow of inputs for
the productive sectors; essential improvement and expansion of infrastructure;
environmental rehabilitation and conservatior and institutional capacity building essential
for sustainable economic growth.



9
1.27  The Bank's water sector program is aimed at assisting GFDRE's achievement of
the sector objectives -- establishment of a sound sector policy,  rehabilitation and
improvement of the sector infrastructure, and strengthening of sector institutional
capacity. IDA's operations would consist of on-going activities under the existing
portfolio and two phases of future activities. The activities under the existing portfolio
include augmentation of two water supply schemes in Oromia Region under MTDP;
expansion of a water supply and sanitation scheme in the suburbs of Addis Ababa under
AAIIUDP; and supply of emergency equipment under the water supply component of
ERRP. The first phase of future activities is to focus on resolving policy issues, building
management capacity and rehabilitating the existing water supply schemes through FY97.
This will be carried out through lending operations and other non-lending instruments.
The lending operations consist of this Project: the proposed Social Rehabilitation and
Development Fund Project which will focus, among others, on rural water supply and
sanitation; and a Health Sector Project, which will assist improvement of sanitation. The
non-lending instruments include the Policy Framework Paper, Economic and Sector Work
and the Public Expenditure Review, which will review progress on overall private sector
participation in the sector and follow-up on cost recovery principles. The second phase
would be to provide support for investments in physical expansion of the sector
infrastructure and for continued capacity building after FY97. This phase would include a
follow-on investment project for the project towns and an investment project for
augmentation of water supply system and sanitation in Addis Ababa. A summary of IDA's
strategy and relations with other donors is presented in Table I below:



Table 1: Summary of IDA Sector Stratefy, Sector Objectives. Policy Issues and Relation with Other Donors
Sector Objecties        _     ___Policy Issues                        ____JScope
K.     I                             I                              j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WaterS* ~ Sanitation
imovaait of     Capacity    Watm Resumrce    b1stitutiona  Ced Rwovezy        Dcnor      UbnRalUrban  Rural
IDA Progras                  Jnfi2struture     Building        & Reg.        Stru4ure                     Coordhistica                   - I 
Madkd Tows Developmaii (Cr.2103-ET)            x              x              -       I       -      I       x      j                 __               X       x
SeomdAddsUxbmiDevelqp.(Cr.2161-Er)            x               x                      i                             -{11                       -       X 
Em-oS  eo very & Rdiim imbdrCr.235 -   jr     X               x            _      _    _      __       _      _                              -,    X 
Wataf Sujpply Dcv atid Rdhabilitatikn Projct   x              x         _____X                                            X                  x       X       x
Health Selm(i Prqjed                           x              -        _     __                                         _ _ _ j                       X       X
Sedct  Wcirk                            __    _   _      _   __    _   _   _   _  _x                                 __   _   _       _ _    x       x      x
PFP and PER                            I                                                     "      t                ____                             x       x
Addis Water Supply aid iatnticm Prje     _____                x                         j       Jx                                             -         
Regiwnal Touuns Devclqrn=t Prqjed        ______                                      x _____  ____                     ____                   X     x         X
Other Donors                                              __o__y__Issues__Scope 
ADB                                                                                                 _____
Belgium                                                                                               _____ __X                               X
CIDA                    _   _  _  ___                                                                     _  _  _     __     X     _  _
Eurpean Union                                                                                           _____             x            _
FINNIDA                   __   _  _   __                                                                  _  _  _      _  _    X
Germany (GTZ)                ____________   X                                                                                             x    X
Gernisy (Kf1W)               __ _______                                                                                   X
Italy                                 _   _  _   ___                                                     _    __     X            _  _
Japan                                  _   _  _  ___                                                      _    __    X
TheNetherlands                _    ___        ____               x____
SIDA                    __    _   _      _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _X
UNCDF                                   _____X                                                                                                X
UNDP                                   _____                 X    ____X X X
UNICEF                    _  _  _   _    __    _   __X                  __   __  _     __   _  _  _XXX
WHO                                    ____                                                                                             
X:      Significant Contribution
x:      COntribution
-:  Not Relevant



11
1.28 The Bank's involvement in the water supply sector began in the early 1 970s with a
loan to AWSA for improvements to its water supply system (Ln. 81 8-ET). Since the early
1980s, the Bank has continued its involvement through the UNDP/WB Regional Water
and Sanitation Group water program aimed at supporting the development of urban and
rural water and sanitation systems.  Currently, the Bank provides financing for the
upgrading of the water supply schemes in two towns and parts of Addis Ababa as
components of the MTDP and the AAIIUDP. In 1992, some of the funds provided under
the MTDP were re-allocated to the ERRP to assist procurement of spare parts and
equipment for the water supply systems in the war-affected northern part of the country.
E. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.29 Lessons learned from Bank's operational experiences in the sector have been
incorporated in the design of the Project. OED's 1992 review' of the Bank's 120 water
supply and sanitation projects from 1967 to 1989 points to the need to have: (i) a
comprehensive water resource management strategy; (ii) an appropriate sector regulatory
framework; (iii) sufficient autonomy of water supply and sanitation institutions; (iv)
appropriate tariff levels and structure: (v) clear measures to reduce unaccounted-for
water; (vi) a human resource management system; (vii) better assessment of environmental
impact; (viii) better assessment of poverty alleviation; and (iv) better compliance with
covenants. The comprehensive water resource management study is under way at
GFDRE's initiative. The establishment of an appropriate sector regulatory framework
would be one of the major outputs under the Project. Autonomy of the executing
agencies would be reviewed in the context of establishing the new sector institutional
framework. Water tariffs for Addis Ababa, Shashemane and Assela have been increased in
accordance with the financial covenants of the two on-going urban projects; and tariff
increases to cover operation and maintenance costs would be implemented in all the
project towns by June 30, 1998.  The technical management study would include
identification of physical and commercial causes for the unaccounted-for water; a quick
rehabilitation program for reducing unaccounted-for water would be part of the Project
for the project towns in the Regions and part of the follow-on investment project in Addis
Ababa. For the assessment of the Project's impact on poverty alleviation, socio-economic
monitoring indicators and baseline data would be established through the baseline study
under the Project.
1.30 A review of 24 water supply and sanitation projects in the Africa Region in 1993
indicated that the improvement of performance of water utilities requires: (i) earnest
efforts to build local capacity; (ii) private sector participation; and (iii) demand driven
planning and management. Capacity building at the regional level is the primary objective
of the Project. Higher participation of the sector stakeholders in sector planning would be
reviewed and proposed by the studies under the Project and a pilot scheme to promote a
"Water Supply and Sanitation Projects - The Bank's Experience - 1967-1989" June 19, 1992
Operation Evaluation Department, The World Bank



12
participatory approach for rural water supply development would be established with
involvement by NGOs and other donors.
1.31  In reference to AWSA's past performance, the Project Performance Audit Report
on the Bank's loan to AWSA 2 raised issues of: (i) difficulty in land acquisition; (ii) delays
in audit; (iii) inconsistent financial covenants; (iv) poor financial management; (v) high
level of unaccounted-for water; and (vi) lack of autonomy in deciding key policy issues.
The Project does not involve any land acquisition that requires resettlement. Audits under
the ongoing urban projects are now up to date. AWSA's financial management would be
strengthened by the technical assistance and training under the Project. Rehabilitation of
the distribution network would be carried out in the follow-on investment project in Addis
Ababa in order to reduce the high rate of unaccounted-for water.  AWSA's new
institutional charter provides AWSA's Board with sufficient autonomy.
2   "PPAR: Ethiopia Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project" No. 2861, February 1980,
Operation Evaluation Department, The World Bank.



13
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.01  Dialogue with Government of Ethiopia and its sector institutions regarding the
Bank's further support of the sector beyond the ERRP began in April 1992. These
discussions focused on capacity building and continued assistance for rehabilitation and
augmentation of existing systems in Addis Ababa and war-affected and neglected regions.
Based on these initial discussions, the idea of a Water Supply Development and
Rehabilitation Project was agreed upon and confirmed during the Project Concept Papers
discussion in October/November 1994.
2.02  The Project is consistent with GFDRE's sector objectives and the Country
Assistance Strategy in that: (i) it will contribute to better access to safe water and
sanitation facilities for the population in the project towns and for the adjacent rural
populations, which will improve health and raise the productivity of the population; (ii) it
will support human resource development and capacity building for the Regional
Governments; and (iii) it will help define and establish a regulatory framework which is
conducive to the introduction of full cost recovery principles in the utility operations and
the greater involvement of various stakeholders.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.03  Project Objectives: The main objectives of the Project are to ensure the long-
term viability of water supply and sanitation operations in line with the Government's
regionalization policies and, in the long run, improve the health and productivity of the
population. These objectives would be met by providing assistance for: (i) capacity
building of the Regional Governments and water supply and sanitation agencies for
management of urban water supply and sanitation schemes and rural water supply
operations; (ii) formulation of policies to ensure long-term financial and managerial
viability of water supply operations, establishment of regulatory arrangements and sound
investment planning by the Regional Governments and water supply agencies; and (iii)
short- and medium-term physical rehabilitation, augmentation and establishment of urban
water supply and sanitation schemes in war-affected and the most deficient regions.
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS DESCRIPTION
2.04  The Project would have the following components:
A. Institutional Capacity Building
(a)   Water Supply Sector Capacity Building
(i)    Regional Studies (Financial, Organizational, Technical
Management)



14
Project Towns (Tariff, Asset Evaluation and Baseline Studies)
Regulatory Study for MOWR
(ii)   Technical Assistance for Regions and AWSA
(iii)  Training for Regions and AWSA
(b)   Rural Water Supply Pilot Scheme
(i)   Studies
(ii)   Technical Assistance and Miscellaneous Equipment
(iii)   Construction of Pilot Scheme
B. Feasibility and Engineering
(a)   Water and Sanitation Scheme Feasibility and Engineering Design
(i)    Rehabilitation Studies
(ii)   Engineering Design for Expansion
(b)   Building Work Design
C. Physical Works
(a)   Water and Sanitation Scheme Rehabilitation
(b)   Building Works
The coverage of each component is summarized in Table 2.



15
Table 2: Proiect Comonents
Project Components               Regional    Project      MOWR         AWSA
I Buremus      Towns              7 .
A. Institutional Capacity Building       _
(a) Water Supply Sector Capacity Building
(i) Studies
Financial, Organizational,    X
and Technical Management
Tariff, Asset Evaluation                  X
and Baseline                                        _ _
Regulatory Framework                                  x
0 & M and MIS, and Tariff                                          x
Study Update for AWSA
(Hi) Technical Assistance
Implementation of Capacity    X           X
Building Studies for Regions
Implementation of O&M and                                          x
MIS and Tariff Studies
(iii) Training                         X                     _               X
(iv) Equipment, Service Rigs, Mobile   x     X                               X
Workshops and Vehicles
(b) Rural Water Supply Pilot Scheme                           __X__ V_____
(i) Studies                            x                                _ _ _
(ii) Technical Assistance and Misc.    x
Equipment
(iii) Construction of Pilot Schemes    X
B Feasibility and Engineering
(a) Water Scheme Feasibility and
Engineering Design
(i) Rehabilitation Studies                         X
(ii) Engineering Design for Expansion              X
(b) Building Works Design             Afar, Sonali                              X
Benshangu
C. Physical Works                          __          __     _   _             _
(a) Water Scheme Rehabilitation                       X
(b) Building Works                    Afar, Soniali                             X
Benshangul
Ganbefl
2.05 Regional Scope: The Project would cover all the Regional Governments in the
country, including Tigray, Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Somali, Benshangul, Southern Ethiopia
People's, Gambella, Harar and Addis Ababa. The 25 towns (Table 3) of the above
Regions except for Addis Ababa are included in the Project for rehabilitation works,
baseline and tariff studies, and feasibility and engineering designs. Capacity building
assistance and building works would be provided to Addis Ababa through AWSA.



16
Table 3: Selected Towns
Regions              |_    Towns                 |Population
Tigray                   1  Adigrat                28,000
2  Indasellasse           20,400
3  Maichew                26,100
Afar                     4  Asaita                 12,000
Amhara                   5  Dabat                  18,960
6  Addis Zemen            19,450
7  Fenote Selam           21,000
8  Debark                 28,060
9  Koladiba               18,600
Oromia                  10  Dembidollo             20,800
11  Gebreguracha           11,000
12  Holeta Genet          20,000
13  Sebeta                 19,300
14  Shambu                 17,000
15  Fitche                37,500
16  Kibre Mengist          21,000
Somali                  17  Degahabor               5,000
18  Kebridehar             11,410
Benshangul              19  Assosa                 10,000
South Ethiopia People    20  Alaba Kulito          14,700
21  Butajira               19,300
22  Dilla                  49,765
23  Wolkite                15,185
Gambella                24  Gambella               13,300
Harar                   25  Harar                  93,795
Addis Ababa (AWSA)    26  Addis Ababa             I-
TOTAL (exel. Addis)  [[               -           j549,195
2.06   Criteria for Selection of Towns: The project towns were selected according to the
following five criteria:
(a)    the number of beneficiaries of water supply operations is generally more
than 10,000;
(b)    the town has strong development potential in respect to its administrative
functions, as an agricultural production and distribution and commercial
center;
(c)    the existing water supply schemes require urgent rehabilitation in regard to
the yield of sources, the production system such as pumps and generators,
and the distribution network;



17
(d)   considerations of equity among regions, taking into account priorities of
the towns affected by drought and civil war; and
(e)   the lack of major assistance from other donors or NGOs.
2.07  A brief description of the Project towns and water supply schemes is available in
the Project File.
2.08  The details of the components are as follows:
A. Institutional Capacity Building (US$28.5 million)3
The objectives of this component are to improve Regional Governments'
organizational, financial and technical management of water supply and sanitation
operations; to ensure cost recovery; and to monitor sector performance, including the
socio-economic impact on the population. This component would cover various levels of
management in urban and rural water supply and sanitation operations, and is
complementary to other donor assistance for regional and central capacity building,
including the UNDP and UNICEF programs. The component comprises the following
sub-components:
(a) Water Supply Sector Capacity Building. This component consists of: (i)
studies, (ii) technical assistance; (iii) training; and (iv) provision of equipment, service rigs,
mobile workshops, vehicles and workshops.
(i)   Studies for the Regional Governments consist of: (a) an Organizational
Management Study to assess and improve the organizational structure, the
staffing and incentive system, and the management information system; (b)
a Financial Management Study to facilitate investment planning and
financial management in the Regions, including improvement of revenue
collection and billing procedures and development of a sound accounting
system; and (c) an Urban Water Technical Management Study to
improve the technical capability, design standards and operation and
maintenance (O&M) practices of zonal offices and water supply units of
the Regions.  These studies would be carried out for all Regional
Governments (except Addis Ababa) at the management level of water
resource departments, zonal offices and water supply units. In addition,
two studies would be carried out for the 25 project towns: a Baseline
Study to establish a basis for performance evaluation of the water supply
operations and their socio-economic impact; and an Asset Evaluafion and
Tariff Study to ensure the cost recovery of the water supply utility
3  Figures given are base costs.



18
operations. The tariff study would be carried out in two phases: the first
phase is to identify the O&M expenses of current water supply operations
so that immediate tariff adjustments can be introduced to ensure cost
recovery by June 30, 1998; the second phase is to ensure the long-run
marginal cost recovery, taking into account the results of the asset
evaluation and future investment plans to be developed under the
engineering studies under the Project. Terms of Reference (TORs) for the
studies are in the Project File; the implementation arrangements and
schedules for the studies are in the Project Implementation Manual.
For AWSA, the Organizational and Management Study, the Water and
Sewerage Tariff Study and the Management Information Study, which
were carried out under the ongoing urban project, will be updated. The
update of the organizational study is aimed at establishing a solid ground
for implementing the new organizational and management structure. The
update of the management information study is to improve the efficiency of
system development during implementation of the recommendations of the
study. The update of the water and sewerage tariff study is to facilitate
implementation of the new water and sewerage tariffs in its new computer
system.
For MOWR, a Regulatory Study will be conducted to review the existing
regulations and propose a regulatory framework which is conducive to the
introduction of full cost recovery principles, efficient allocation of
economic resources, the possible corporatization of water supply
operations in the regions and participation by the private sector. The study
would be synchronized with UNICEF's assistance for MOWR to fortulate
rural water supply and sanitation policies. TORs for the study are in the
Project File.
(ii)   Technical Assistance for the Regional Governments would be provided to
facilitate implementation of the recommendations of the Organizational
Management Study, the Financial Management Study and the Urban Water
Technical Management Study. The technical assistance will comprise a
phase of orientation and work planning, a subsequent phase of design and
installation of new procedures and a final phase of supervision and
monitoring. In addition, short term technical assistance will be provided to
the water supply units of the 25 project towns for implementation of the
recommendations of the baseline study and the tariff and asset evaluation
study. TORs for the technical assistance will be prepared by the study
teams of the above studies. Implementation arrangements are included in
the Implementation Manual. Technical assistance would be provided to
AWSA to facilitate implementation of the updated organizational
management study and management information system study, including
implementation of the revised tariff structure in its new computer system.



19
The TORs for the AWSA technical assistance are presented in the Project
File.
(iii)   Training will be provided for personnel of the Water Resource
Departments of the Regional Governments, AWSA and MOWR. The
training would include the following aspects: (1) general management,
including top management skills, human resource, financial and information
management; (2) specific management skills, including supervision skills,
environmental  management,  maintenance   management,  material
management and customer service management; and (3) other professional
courses, including budget planning and preparation, legal matters, safety
training, maintenance of service rigs, pollution control and accounting and
auditing. For the Regions, training will be provided for grass-root working
level staff, mid-level management and top management of the bureaus,
departments, zonal offices and water supply units. A detailed description
of the component is given in the Project File.
(iv)   Equipment, Service Rigs and Mobile Workshops Vehicles will be
provided to facilitate the capacity building of the Regional Governments.
There are no private sector rig operators in the Regions, and the Regional
Bureaus themselves are responsible for carrying out maintenance of
boreholes and wells. To improve their capacity to provide preventive as
well as emergency maintenance, 13 maintenance rigs would be provided to
clean up boreholes and wells, and 13 mobile workshops to maintain
machinery and water schemes. The Regions have the capacity to maintain
the maintenance rigs; most of them have at least one qualified
mechanical/electrical engineer and mechanics and there are maintenance
facilities such as ex-WSSA regional workshops, private garages and other
construction site workshops available at the locations where these rigs
normally go through maintenance services. The Regions of Afar, Somali,
Benshangul and Gambella will, if necessary, receive additional assistance
from MOWR in operating and maintaining service rigs at the initial stage.
The training component will also include training of rig operators,
mechanics and artisans. Detailed information on the Regions' maintenance
capacity is included in the Project File. In addition, the water supply unit in
each  project town would be provided with a vehicle to facilitate
implementation and subsequent operation of the rehabilitated schemes.
Miscellaneous equipment, water meters and vehicles would be provided to
AWSA to improve its maintenance and operational capacity and help to
implement the new water and sewerage tariffs. A list of equipment, mobile
workshops, maintenance rigs and vehicles is included in Annex 6.
(b) Rural Water Supply (RWS) Pilot Scheme.   The main thrust of this
component is to explore how community involvement, particularly management of
completed schemes, can improve cost-efficiency and long term  sustainability.  The



20
following achievements are expected: identification of good practices; establishment of a
framework for information exchange among communities and NGOs, development of
procedures for promotion of community managed projects, implementation of pilot
projects; and establishment of a rural water supply strategy for communities. The RWS
pilot component will be vested regionally with the respective Water Resources
Development Departments with assistance from the Water Supply and Sewerage
Department of MOWR. This component would comprise the following main elements:
(i)   Studies to review the current practices and institutional arrangements of
rural water supply schemes among different communities, regions and
NGOs and prepare appropriate national/regional strategies to improve
operations;
(ii)   Technical assistance and miscellaneous equipment to create a RWS
Forum for exchange and dissemination of experiences among the
Government, donors, NGOs and communities, centrally and in each region;
and
(iii) Construction of pilot schemes for testing and application of the detailed
strategies. It is envisaged that most of the pilot schemes will be constructed
voluntarily by partner members of the RWS Forum. In order to carry out
some independent testing, the project would also finance construction of
several schemes (about 6-15) in each of the regions. These would be
implemented through the regional bureaus, and will serve a training role in
the overall capacity building effort.
The community based approach, design standard and promotion strategies developed
under the pilot scheme component could be followed up by the proposed Ethiopia Social
Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project, which will have a substantial rural water
supply component (estimate at appraisal US$75 million).
A number of NGOs active in RWS development expressed willingness to work in
partnership with the pilot component and to contribute to the generation and sharing of
experiences. During the donor coordination meetings specific procedures will be worked
out for collaboration with NGOs which will allow them to retain their autonomy while still
being committed to the RWS Forum framework. Continuous consultations will be held
with UNICEF and other donors to ensure complementarity with their programs. Details
of the component are included in the Project File.
B. Feasibility and Engineering Studies (US$5.6 million)
(a) Water Schemes Feasibility Studies and Engineering Designs. This sub-
component is to provide assistance in the form of engineering designs for immediate
rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation schemes and for long-term investment
planning for future expansion of the urban schemes in the 25 towns. The environmental



21
impact of the physical work will be assessed during the studies and engineering designs.
The component includes:
(i)    Rehabilitation studies to identify the immediate rehabilitation needs of
water supply schemes in the project towns, which would be carried out
under the component C(a); and
(ii)   Engineering  designs and  environmental assessments for future
expansion of the water supply schemes of the project towns, the physical
works for which would be carried out under the follow-on investment
project.
TORs for the above consultancy are included in the Project File.
(b) Building Works Designs. Designs would be prepared for the construction or
improvement of headquarters offices for the water supply operations in Afar, Somali,
Benshangul and Gambella Regions, which the currently have no administrative facilities,
and for the branch offices of AWSA. The physical work would be carried out under
component C(b).
C. Physical Works (US$19.7 million)
(a) Water Scheme Rehabilitation Works. Physical works will be provided for
immediate rehabilitation of the water supply schemes in all the project towns as per the
measures to be identified under sub-component B(a)(i) (Rehabilitation Studies).
(b) Building Works for Water Supply Headquarters and AWSA's Branch
Offices. Headquarters facilities would be constructed or improved for the regional water
supply headquarters in Afar, Somali, Benshangul and Gambella Regions. AWSA's branch
network will be upgraded through construction of six new branch offices and six storage
areas in order to improve its customer services.
D. COST ESTIMATES
2.09  The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$65.5 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$29.28 mnillion, or 45 percent. Total project cost includes
physical and price contingencies and duties and taxes. Price contingencies have been
calculated on average annual price increase indices in the range of 4.50% to 2.50% for
foreign costs and 11.0% for FY95/96, 7.30% for FY96/97 and 5.20% for FY96/97 and
thereafter for local costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the base cost
of civil works and other physical works and 5% for consultancy and studies. A summary
of project costs is given in Table 4 below. Details are in the Project File.



22
Table 4: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Component                                               Birr Million                        US$ Million                     9% % of
Local    Foreign    Total            Local    Foreign     Total          Foreign       Total
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Water Supply Sector Capacity Building
StUdies
ior Regions                                 8.21      19.60     27.81             1.30      3.11      4.41             70.5          6.7
for AWSA                                     1.62      3.53      5.15            0.26       0.56       0.82            68.5          1.2
for MOWR                                    0.47       4.98      5.46            0.08       0.79      0.87
Toclhnical Assistanice and Training
for Regions                                 8.10      7.28      15.38            1.29       1.16      2.44             47.3         3.7
for AWSA                                    4.05      8.83      12.88            0.64       1.40      2.04             68.6         3.1
Misc. EnUipmt. and Vehicles
tor Regions                                27.39     59.41      86.80            4.35      9.43      13.78             68.4        21.0
for AWSA                                    5.34      8.08      13.42            0.85       1.28      2.13             60.2         3.3
RLural Water Supply Pilot Scheme
StLidies                                       4.19       0.00      4.19            0.67       0.00      0.67              0.0          1.0
Fechnical Assistance
Adv. Services & Training                    4.73      0.00       4.73            0.75      0.00       0.75              0.0         1.1
Off. Equipt. & Vehicle Spares               0.19       0.54      0.73            0.03       0.09      0.12             73.9          0.2
Pilot Scheme Construction                      2.84       0.00      2.84            0.45       0.00      0.45              0.0         0.7
Sub-total 1                         67.13    112.24    179.38            10.66      17.82     28.47             62.6        43.5
FEASIBILITY AND ENGINEERING
W'ater Schemies
Erngineering & Corist. Supervision            11.03     21.11      32.13             1.75      3.35      5.10             65.7          7.8
Building Works
Engineering & Const. Supervision
Buiilding Works for Regions                 1.13       0.00      1.13            0.18       0.00      0.18              0.0          0.3
Buildirrr Works for AWSA                    2.28       0.00      2.28            0.36       0.00      0.36              0.0          0.6
SLub-total 2                        14.44      21.11     35.55            2.29       3.35      5.64             59.4          8.6
iPHIYSICAL WORKS
oViter Schemes for Regions
Irionnediato Improvement Works                10.43       6.95     17.38             1.66      1.10      2.76             40.0          4.2
Dulling Works                                  2.27       2.35      4.62            0.36       0.37      0.73             50.8          1.1
Civil Works                                   32.76       0.00     32.76             5.20      0.00       5.20             0.0          7.9
Si,pIly Conttracts                            17.77      17.58     35.35             2.82      2.79       5.61            49.7          8.6
Bijildirin Works
.R Regions                                   11.34       0.00     11.34            1.80       0.00      1.80              0.0          2.7
lor AWSA                                      22.79       0.00     22.79            3.62       0.00      3.62              0.0          5.5
Suh total 3                         97.37      26.88    124.25           15.46       4.27     19.72             21.6         30.1
LAND ACOUISITION/COMPENSATION                     0.63       0.00      0.63            0.10       0.00      0.10              0.0         0.2
BASE COST TOTAL                    179.57    160.23    339.80            28.50      25.43     53.94             47.2        82.3
Phlysical Contingencies                          14.08      12.87     26.95            2.23       2.04      4.28             47.8         6.5
Price Contingencies                              34.51      11.38     45.89            5.48       1.81      7.28             24.8        11.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              228.16    184.48    412.64            36.22      29.28     65.50             44.7       100.0
Ililerest during construction                     0.00       0.00      0.00            0.00       0.00      0.00
GOE firranced
F[1 AL FINANCING REQUIRED                       228.16    184.48    412.64            36.22     29.28      65.50



23
E. FINANCING
2.10 The total project cost of US$65.5 million would be flianced as shown in Table 5
below:
Table 5: Project Financing Plan
Local       Foreien      Total
------------(US$ million)------
IDA                             6.45        29.28       35.73
GFDRE                          29.77        0.0         29.77
36.22      29.28        65.50
The IDA credit of US$35.73 million, including a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance of US$200,000, would finance 55 percent of total project costs; GFDRE would
contribute US$29.77 million equivalent including about US$9.6 million equivalent in taxes
and duties. Project funds will be transferred to the Regional Governments and AWSA as
part of the budgetary allocation. A Grant Agreement will be concluded between the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and AWSA for the transfer of these funds. Signing of the
Grant Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness.
F. PROCUREMENT
2.11  Procurement of goods, works and services for all IDA-financed components will
be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, published January 1995. A summary of procurement arrangements is given
in Table 6. During negotiations, standard procurement processing times were agreed for
all key procurement activities. MOWR will report periodically on status of procurement
as per format agreed with IDA.



24
Table 6: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Aethod
Project Element                      ICB         NCB        Other      NBF         TOTAL
1. Works
I.I Immediate Improvement
Civil Works                                                                      1.45             1.45
(0.00)
1.2 Rehabilitation of Water Supply Schemes
Civil Works                                                                     6.56             6.56
(0.00)
Drilling Works                                     0.97                                          0.97
(0.47)                                       (0.47)
Building Works
for Regions                                                                   2.38             2.38
(0.00)
for AWSA                                                                      4.78             4.78
(0.00)
1.3 Rural Water Pilot Schemes                                                         0.62             0.62
(0.00)
2. Goods
2.1 Immedizte Improvement
Materials and Equipment                            2.00                                          2.00
(1.31)                                        (1.31)
2.2 Rehabilitation.of Water Supply Schemes
Materials and Equipment                            6.95                                          6.95
(3.30)                                        (3.30)
2.3 Rural Water Supply Schemes
Office Equipment and Spares                        0.14                                          0.14
(0. 10)                                       (0.10)
2.4 Technical Assistance
Misc. Equipment and Vehicles
for Regions                                     16.19                   0.30                  16.49
(10.72)                (0.30)                 (11.02)
for AWSA                                         2.57                                          2.57
(1.50)                                        (1.50)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Institutional Support Studies
for Regions                                                               5.01                   5.01
(5.01)                 (5.01)
for AWSA                                                                  0.92                   0.92
(0.92)                 (0.92)
for MOWR                                                                  0.98                   0.98.
(0.98)                 (0.98)
3.2 Short-term Consultancies and Advisory
Services and Training
for Regions                                                               2.90                   2.90
(2.90)                (2.90)
for AWSA                                                                  2.31                   2.31
(2.31)                 (2.31)
3.3 Rural Water Supply Pilot Schemes
Studies                                                                          0.81            0.81
(0.00)
Advisory Services and Training                                                   0.97            0.97
(0.00)
3.4 Feasibility Studies, Engineering Design
and Construction Supervision
Water Schemes
Tigray and Amhara                                                       1.89                   1.89
(1.89)                (1.89)
Oromia, Gambella, Benshangul                                              2.13                   2.13
(2.13)                (2.13)
Afar, Somali, Huar, SEPRA                                               1.89                    1.89
(1.89)                 (1.89)
Building Works
for Regions                                                                    0.22            0.22
(0.00)
for AWSA                                                                       0.45            0.45
(0.00)
4. Land Acquisition and Compensation                                                     0.10             0.10
(0.00)
TOTALS                                        28.82                  18.33      18.34         65.49
(17.40)               (18.33)    (0.00)        (35.73)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit
NBF= Not Bank Financed



25
2.12 The implementing agencies (MOWR and AWSA) have demonstrated their
capability to handle procurement matters (including acquisition and distribution of goods)
under the ongoing Market Towns Development Project (Cr. 2103-ET) for the Assela and
Shashamene water supply components as well as for the ERRP component and AAIIUDP
(Cr. 2161-ET). The staff of MOWR are well experienced with the Bank's procurement
rules and have been kept up-to-date with the revision in the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The use of the Bank's revised Standard Bidding
Documents will be mandatory for the Bank-financed components.
2.13 Civil works and building contracts would be financed by GFDRE. IDA shall,
however, be satisfied that the selected contractors are capable of carrying out the works
and that costs are reasonable.4 Drilling works for rehabilitation and augmentation of water
supply schemes will be combined into single contracts within the regions and will be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB).
2.14  Procurement of goods (vehicles, equipment, and pipes and accessories) will,
wherever practicable, be combined into single supply contract(s) and would be procured
through ICB.5 MOWR will be responsible for the acquisition and distribution of goods to
the regional administrations and to the selected civil works contractors. AWSA will be
responsible for the acquisition of goods for the AWSA sub-components. Proper records
and accounts of materials and supplies as issued will be maintained by MOWVR and AWSA
which will be reviewed periodically by IDA and Auditor. Goods and office equipment, and
minor water supply equipment and spare parts under the Immediate Improvement works,
to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000 each to an aggregate amnount of
US$200,000 may be procured on the basis of international shopping from at least three
suppliers from two countries. Proprietary spare parts for the rehabilitation and repair of
the existing electrical and mechanical equipment under the Immediate Improvement
component, to cost less than the equivalent of US$10,000 each to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000 may be obtained from the sole authorized agent of the equipment. All
contracts with a value of US$100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to prior review
by IDA. Contracts below this amount will be subject to random post review (one in five).
2.15  Institutional and feasibility studies, engineering designs (including preparation of
bid documents and construction supervision) will be carried out by consultants to be
employed by the implementing agencies (MOWR and AWSA), whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to IDA.6 Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published in
August 1981. Consulting contracts with firms and individuals estimated to cost $100,000
4  The value of the individual civil works contracts are estimated to be between US$0.2 and 0.4 million
equivalent.
5   DA will finance the foreign exchange component.
6  The Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services (published by the World Bank in June
1995) shall be obligatory.



26
or more and $50,000 or more, respectively, will be subject to IDA's prior review including
all TOR(s), sole source contracts, etc., as indicated in the DCA. A three-month period is
allocated for the selection of consultants at project start-up in the implementation
schedule.
2.16 The General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business
Forum, at least 60 days prior to the issue of the bid documents.
G. DISBURSEMENT
2.17 Disbursements from the IDA credit would be in accordance with normal IDA
procedures set out in the Disbursement Handbook (November 1992).  All consultancies
and advisory services and training would be financed 100% by IDA, except the
engineering designs and construction supervision for the building works which will be filly
financed by GFDRE. Civil works would be financed 100% by GFDRE, while the foreign
cost of all other components would be financed by IDA. Payments under US$200,000
equivalent would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditure.
2.18  The credit would be disbursed over four and a half years, beginning the second
quarter of FY96. The Project completion date is December 31, 1999, and closing date is
June 30, 2000. An estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 7.
Summary of Disbursements
Category           Amount of Credit Allocated   % of Expenditures to be
(USS)                    Financed
(1) Drilling works and well          420,000           100% of foreign expenditures
construction
(2) Goods                          15,490,000          100% of foreign expenditures
(3) Consultants' services, and     16,200,000           100%
training
(4) Refunding PPF                    200,000            Amount due
(5) Unallocated                     3.420.800
Total                      35,730,800



27
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(in US$ millions)
FY96        FY97         FY98         FY99         FY00
Annual              1.25         7.25        11.9         10.3          5.03
Cumulative          1.25         8.5         20.4         30.7         35.73
Cumulative (%)     3.5          23.8         57.1         85.9         100
2.19 To facilitate disbursements, an MOWR special account would be opened in a
commercial bank, with an authorized initial deposit of US$1 million, equal to three
months' estimated expenditures.  Until disbursements reach the equivalent of US$3.5
million, which is anticipated for the first project year, the initial deposit will be restricted to
US$500,000. MOWR would be the signatory for withdrawals from the IDA credit. In
addition, an AWSA special account would be opened with an initial deposit of
US$500,000; MOWR and AWSA would be the signatory for withdrawals.
2.20 Audit Arrangements: MOWR would establish one Project Account for all
regions. For the AWSA components, AWSA will submit its Financial Statements. The
MOWR Project Account, AWSA Financial Statements, the MOWR Special Accounts,
AWSA Special Account, the MOWR Statements of Expenditures and the AWSA
Statement of Expenditures would be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to
IDA. The audit reports would be submitted within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. The accounting capacity of AWSA has been improving under IDA's on-going urban
projects: AWSA has cleared all audit backlogs in the past one year.



28
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
3.01. The water supply operation units of the Water Resources Development
Departments under the Bureaus of Water Resources of the Regional Governments will be
the beneficiaries of the Project. To facilitate implementation and enhance ownership of the
regional components, a Project Manager will be appointed by each Regional Water
Resource Development Department.  Counterpart staff for the studies and technical
assistance will be explicitly appointed for the project activities. The Regional Managers
will have responsibility for day-to-day implementation; they will report to the National
Project Coordinator at MOWR through the Regional Bureau Heads of Water, Mine and
Energy who will have responsibility for supervision of quality of outputs under the
Project. The National Project Coordinator's Terms of Reference are in the Project File.
MOWR will coordinate and supervise all project activities, including signing of contracts
on behalf of the Regional Governments, except for the AWSA sub-component for which
AWSA would be the executing agency.
3.02. A Steering Committee with decision making powers has been established under the
chairmanship of the Vice-Minister of MOWR to supervise implementation of the project.
Steering Committee members include: the Chief Engineer, Senior Economist, Water
Supply and Sewerage Department Head, Contract Administration Department Head, and
Design Department Head of MOWR; and members from AWSA, Regional Bureaus and
related Ministries as necessary. The National Project Coordinator will be the secretariat of
the Committee and will report on progress of the Project and any issue which requires the
Committee's intervention.
3.03. Agreement was reached that contracts for the consultancy and advisory
assignments would be grouped into three geographical areas:
1.    Tigray and Amhara Regions;
2.    Oromia, Gambella and Benshangul Regions; and
3.    Afar, Somali, Southern Ethiopia People's, and Harar Regions
in order to ensure that the assignments will be carried out simultaneously in all regions in
the early phase of the implementation period. Such grouping would, moreover, encourage
mutually beneficial sharing of experiences between institutionally relatively stronger and
weaker regions. In the shortlisting of consultants, qualified local consulting firms would
be included, and joint ventures with international consulting firms will be encouraged, as
per the procurement guidelines. The engineering designs and construction supervision for
the building works will be entirely locally financed.
3.04  Management of Studies and Technical Assistance:  Special implementation
arrangements to manage the studies and technical assistance would be established to
ensure that they provide maximum benefits to the Regional Governments.  These



29
arrangements are aimed at: enhancing ownership of the project activities by the Regional
Governments; establishing accountability in the process of skill transfer from the technical
assistance experts to the counterpart personnel; and ensuring sustainability of the
improved performance of the Regional Governments.
3.05  Ownership of the studies and technical assistance by the Regional Governments
would be enhanced by including MOWR personnel in the experts' team and by assigning
the Region's counterpart staff to the expert teams as required. The counterpart staff
includes the Project Manager, water supply engineer, economists or accountants and
extension workers. Accountability of the technical assistance experts in transferring skills
to the counterparts would be established by preparing detailed work plans for the experts
with clearly defined measurable outputs, by establishing an objective evaluation system of
technical experts' performance with feedback from top management of Regional
Governments and the National Project Coordinator, and by providing appropriate
incentives to the experts to the extent the contractual agreements permit. Sustainability of
improvement of performance would be ensured by providing the counterpart staff with
clearly defined work plans, incentive schemes and an objective performance evaluation
system; by establishing clearly defined exit mechanisms with time-bound performance
monitoring targets; and by coordinating the technical assistance with other training
activities. The appointment of counterpart staff (staff composition is specified in the
Implementation Manual). will be completed by June 1996 for the regional studies.
technical assistance and training under the water supply sector capacity building
component. Summary of the arrangements is presented in Chart 1 below.



30
Chart 1: Summary of TA Manaeement Arrangements
PHASES           I    Formulation and             Transfer of Skill          Improvement in
Initiation                                         Organizational
Performance
FOCUS                 OWNERSHIP  J ACCOUNTABILITY  J SUSTAINABILITY
KEY                                                                                  ImpvedP
PLAYERS                                                                 L=9-)&   VJ  1
ACTIONS              - inclusion of MOWR and   - establishment of detailed    - establishment of detailed
Regional counterpart  work plans for TA experts  workplans for counterpart
staff to the expert team    with measurable outputs  staff with measurable output
- division of regional  - quarterly performance    - quarterly performance
studies into three    evaluation of experts by   evaluation of counterpart staff
packages to optimize the  counterparts, Regional  by the experts, Regional
number of regions     management, Project        management, National
covered and the       Coordinator and Steering   Project Coordinator and
efficiency of contractual  Committee             Steering Committee
management
- morale incentives for   - performance based incentive
experts by feedback from  scheme for counterpart staff
Regional management,
Project Coordinator and the    - exit system: rotating the
Steering Committee        expert team among Regions
to enable counterpart staff to
perform independently
- establishment of
organizational monitoring
indicators
3.06   An Implementation Manual has been prepared which sets out details of the
implementation activities and roles and responsibilities of the various entities involved in
project implementation. The contents of the Implementation Manual include a description
of the project, its objectives and cost; implementation arrangements, including
responsibilities and procedures; guidelines for procurement and disbursement; monitoring
and evaluation indicators; and the project implementation schedule and timetable of key
events. The Implementation Manual is in the Project File.
3.07   In  order to  facilitate  higher participation  of stakeholders in  the  sector, a
participatory approach would be adopted in the implementation of the pilot scheme of
rural water supply system  with the involvement of NGOs and other donors.    The
experiences and lessons learned from  this pilot scheme would be utilized for future
investments in the rural water and sanitation operations to be financed, in part, by the
proposed IDA-Financed Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project.



31
B. PROJECT MONITORING AND MID-TERM REVIEW
3.08  The Project Managers of the Regional Governments and AWSA will report
progress of project implementation to the National Project Coordinator at MOWR.
MOWR will aggregate the reports and submit them to the Project Steering Committee and
the Bank. The reporting will be made quarterly.
3.09  Progress with technical assistance will be particularly closely monitored. Detailed
work plans for consultants and Regions' counterpart staff will be developed with
measurable output. The performance of the consultants and counterparts will be evaluated
monthly by the Regions' management and reported to the National Project Coordinator
and the Project Steering Committee. The National Project Coordinator will closely
monitor quality of output, and will raise any issues to the Project Steering Committee. The
Regions will have opportunities to evaluate counterpart staff performance independently
because the expert teams will be rotated among the Regions.
3.10  Monitoring indicators to measure the impact of the Project on organizational,
technical and financial management, human resource development, community
involvement, socio-economic aspects and physical improvement of infrastructure have
been developed at both Regional level and Project town level and included in the Project
Implementation Manual. For the organizational, technical and financial management
aspects, the indicators include efficiency indicators and financial ratios.  For human
resource development, various indicators related to staffing and training are included. For
community involvement, customer contact and public relations indicators have been
developed. For socio-economic impact, indicators, including infant mortality rate, burden
of disease, affordability and labor burden, have been established.  For the physical
improvement of the infrastructure, service coverage indicators, rehabilitation progress and
water quality are included. The Monitoring Indicators are attached in Annex 8 and in the
Implementation Manual. To expedite collection of baseline data, a draft letter of invitation
for carrying out the capacity building studies was submitted to IDA during negotiations.
Prior to credit effectiveness, the terms of reference for the preparation of the monitoring
indicators will be furnished to IDA. and the consultancy contracts will be awarded. By
November 30, 1996, target monitoring indicators will be agreed, based on the results of
the baseline survey, for review at mid-term and project completion.
3.11  Because of the geographic diversification of the project towns, IDA's supervision
requirements would be higher than normal engineering and technical assistance projects.
It is expected that IDA would field three supervision missions per year. An interim review
would be conducted some 18 months into the Project as a basis for determining progress
of project implementation and policy reform, and mid-course adjustments, if necessary,
according to the performance criteria to be established in the implementation manual.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that an interim review would be undertaken
by September 30, 1997. A supervision mission plan is included in Annex 9; details are in
the Implementation Manual.



32
Sector Approach
3.12  The Project has laid the basis for a sector operation approach. First, the Project,
which will be implemented in all the Regions in Ethiopia, covers broad policy issues
through the project preparation, the regulatory study and donor coordination forums.
Second, there is a strong support and ownership of the Project by the Regional
Governments, especially by the newly established remote Regions. The Regions proposed
the type of support and selected the Project towns. Third, donor coordination is a central
feature of this Project. A donor coordination forum will be held in June 1996, and bi-
annual donor conferences are planned under the chairmanship of MOWR. In addition,
there will be a rural water supply forum involving NGOs to facilitate exchange of
information and dissemination of good practices.  The policy issues, including cost
recovery and institutional structure, have been discussed with major donors and there is a
consensus on the conditionalities on these issues. Foreign technical assistance has been
kept to a minimum, considering Ethiopia's enormous demand for technology transfer.
There will be strong participation of local consultants and beneficiaries' counterpart staff,
and technical assistance will be phased out through a clearly designed exit plan.
Client Consultation
3.13  Each Region has been visited by the Project preparation team and their specific
requests for assistance have been discussed. In addition, the Prime Minister's Office has
held several seminars for the Regional Bureaus' management to discuss policy issues and
institutional structures; Bank staff participated in the seminars to discuss the issues and the
Project.
3.14  The ultimate beneficiaries of water supply and sanitation operations, the
consumers, have been consulted at public water fountains and communal sanitation
facilities during field trips to the Project towns. To ensure systematic client consultation,
the terms of reference for the various studies will include, where applicable, identification
of stakeholders and definition of a framework for their participation.
C. WATER TARIFF AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1. THE REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS
3.15   Overall Financial Status of Water Supply Operations in the Regions: Due to
the low water tariffs, which have not been revised for over 15 years, most of the water
supply operations in the country do not recover the operations and maintenance
expenditures of routine operations.  Major maintenance and new  investments are
subsidized by the national and regional governments.
3.16  Financial Status of the Water Supply Operations of the Project Towns: The
financial status of the water supply schemes in the Project towns is generally characterized



33
by insufficient revenue generation and inefficient cash management. The typical Project
town has an annual revenue of some US$14,000 - US$40,000, with fixed assets of
US$25,000 on an historical cost basis. Revenue has not grown over a long time of period
since the water tariffs have not been revised and no new investment to increase water sales
has been made. Revenues of most of the schemes are insufficient to cover operation costs,
such as fuel, lubricants, chemicals and wages. Maintenance and replacement costs are
barely covered even though depreciation charges are grossly understated since value of the
fixed assets is still based on historical cost. Revenue collection is generally poor: some of
them have outstanding balances of accounts receivable equivalent to two-year revenues.
As a result, there is generally a high outstanding balances of accounts payable since the
payment obligation cannot be honored due to cash shortages. Financial statements and
financial performance indicators of the water supply schemes of the Project towns are
included in the Project File (information on some of the towns is not available due to the
civil war and transfer of documents between the Regions).
3.17  Improvement Plans: Under the proposed Project, the Financial Management
Study for the Regional Governments will look into the current financial management
system of the Regional Bureaus, including a review of the current accounting system and
measures to improve revenue collection. The Tariff Study (Phase I) will help the Project
towns to restore accounting records and establish new water tariffs to cover operations
and maintenance costs (on historical fixed assets value). The Baseline Study, which will be
conducted with the Phase I Tariff Study, will include an affordability analysis and review
willingness to pay. Implementation of new water tariffs in the project towns to cover
operations and maintenance costs will be completed by June 30. 1998. The tariffs will be
required to be reviewed and updated bi-annually to cover operations and maintenance
costs. After the Asset Evaluation Study re-evaluates the replacement cost of the fixed
assets and the Engineering Design Study makes cost estimates of the future expansion
works, the Tariff Study (Phase II) will assist Regions to establish the water tariffs based
on the long-term marginal cost recovery principle.
2. ADDIS ABABA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (AWSA)
AWSA Water Tariffs
3.18  Current AWSA  Tariffs:  AWSA's water and sanitation tariffs were under
government regulation until the new Board was established in 1993. The basic water tariff
of Birr 0.50/m3 has not been revised since 1948. The rental fee for a 1/2 inch water meter
is ETB1.00 and for a 3/4 inch meter, ETB5.00. For sewerage service, there is an initial
connection fee and an additional sewerage fee of ETB 0.40 applied for each cubic meter
of water consumed. The fees for disposal of sewage from pit latrines and septic tanks are
between Birr 25 and 30: however, due to the shortage of vacuum cars in the past, the
actual fees were raised to Birr 49.
3.19  Requirements of Tariff Increase under On-going Bank Project:   Under
AAIIUDP, AWSA is required to increase the water and sanitation tariffs in order to



34
sustain its operation and maintenance activities, carry out replacement of fixed assets, and
meets its debt service obligations. The Project Agreement between IDA and AWSA
requires that AWSA, after FY91/92, generate total revenues equivalent to not less than
the sum of: (i) its total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service
requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. AWSA did not comply with the
covenant for FY92/93 through FY94/95.
3.20 Tariff Increase: Following agreement reached between GOE and the Bank under
the Third Policy Framework Paper and the Project Concept Paper discussions in
October/November 1994, AWSA has agreed to increase water and sewerage tariffs,
starting in June 1995. The new tariffs maintain the current tariff structure, consisting of
the fixed charge (meter rent), volume charge, and sludge disposal fee, and are intended to
cover only a one year period up to FY95/96 until a modified tariff structure becomes
ready for implementation. The new tariffs are estimated to increase AWSA's total annual
revenue by over 200 percent, from ETBI17 million to ETB50 million. This is sufficient to
maintain a positive cash flow after operations and maintenance expenses and debt service,
thus, satisfying the financial covenants of the Project Agreement under the AAILUDP.
After FY95/96, the tariff structure will be modified to introduce more appropriate
customer classification to connection fees, network charges, volume charges and sludge
disposal fees. During the Project period, AWSA will continue to be required to maintain a
positive cash flow after operation and maintenance expenses and debt service are covered.
The new tariff structure, which was implemented in June 1995, is included in Annex 10
and financial projections for AWSA for the Project period are included in Annex 11.
3.21  Affordability of the New Tariffs: The new tariffs will not have an adverse effect
on the poor since the volume charge for public fountain operators will remain at ETB0.5
per M3 and the low income group is not served by individual standpipes or house
connections.  The current cost of hand carried water is estimated to be marginally
affordable to the poor. The population depending on public fountains and vendors is
estimated to constitute a significant portion of the population of Addis Ababa. This low
income group typically lives in wood and mud housing and the majority earn less than
ETB200 per month. Since the hand-carried water costs ETBO.50/M3 to ETB2.50/M3, it
is estimated to take between 2 percent to 20 percent of the household income. On the
sanitation side, these households are typically either served by a communal latrine or
utilize open ground; therefore they do not incur cash expenses.
3.22 Future Capacity Expansion and Tariff Perspective: Addis Ababa has been
facing serious water supply constraints: AWSA's current treated water production from
the existing Legadadi and Gafarsa treatment plants has been reduced to 125,000 cubic
m3/day due to safe yield considerations, while the demand for treated water is estimated
to reach over 500,000 m3/day by the year 2020. In order to meet the fast growing
demand, AWSA plans to undertake a series of capacity expansion projects for the next
twenty years. The following are AWSA's future investment plans (Table 7):



35
Table 7: AWSA Future Investment Plan
First Year of Operation   Source Work Included   Additional Treated  Estimated Prolect Cost
Water
1998                 Dire Darn                    40,000 M /day
Akaki Ground Water           125,000M3/day        USS165 million
1999                 Leakage&Pipe Replace          60,O00M-/day
2000                 Gerbi                         33,000M3/day
Sibilu phase I               125,00OM3/day        US$265 million
2011                 Sibilu phase 2               125,000M3/day        USS200 million
2017                 Gafarsa                       43,00OMW/day        US$400 million
Sewerage and Sanitation
M.- MM5 
Wfuly,,lel- l,.|me R*.lWnrl  6'i lg 1- 13v ll tiv, ll tot a
3.23   Based on the above investment plan, a tariff study has been made under AAIIUDP
which estimates that the economic long-run marginal cost of AWSA's water supply is in
the range of ETB2.8-3.4/M3 in constant 1992 terms.  In order to recover future
investment costs, future recurrent expenses, replacement of its fixed assets and debt
service, AWSA will have to gradually raise the water supply tariffs to ETB2.32 in financial
terms (constant 1992 ETB) by 2003. It was agreed under the Third Policy Framework
Paper, that cost recovery of water supply and sanitation operations of AWSA would be
achieved and this would be a condition of future Bank support for AWSA's investment
program.
3.24   AWSA Financial Management:   AWSA's financial management has been
hampered by a shortage of manpower and insufficient financial skills. Although a full time
acting financial manager has recently been appointed, there is a need to upgrade the skills
of financial staff, especially relating to the introduction of the new computer system,
incorporating the result of the Organizational and Management Study which was finalized
in June 1993.
3.25   Billing: Billing is one of the key components in AWSA's operations. It starts
from the reading of water meters at customer locations by branch personnel. Then the
water meter readings (customer water consumption data) are sent manually to the head
office to process customer bills by the mainframe computer system. The meter reading
and billing are performed every two months. The collection is made by branch office
personnel for most customers, while the head office is currently responsible for the
collection from some large account customers.
3.26   For many years, inaccurate and late billing to customers has been one of the most
critical problems of AWSA. About 20% of the water meters are not functioning, and
those customers are currently billed at a flat rate based on their previous consumption



36
levels. To alleviate this problem, AAIIUDP provides assistance for procurement of water
meters and extension of the meter repair/calibration workshop.
3.27  Besides malfunctioning water meters, it is alleged that the poorly designed
computer billing system and poor data conversion in the past have resulted in inaccurate
and late customer billing. Currently, there is no computer at branch offices and the billing
system can only be operated within the Computer Information System (CIS) at the head
office. The meter readings have to be inputted and processed at CIS. This centralized
operation has taken more time for the input data verification and yet failed to reduce the
occurrence of incorrect bills. Improvement will be made based on the recommendations
made under the Management Information System study to be updated under the Project.
3.28  Collection: For continuing customers, branch offices and the Finance Department
and CIS jointly perform their work in billing and collection in a two-month cycle. Due to
inefficient collection, AWSA has accumulated a high outstanding balance of accounts
receivable at end- FY90/91 of ETB 12 million, or over 8 months equivalent of the water
sales revenues. AWSA will reduce its accounts receivable to 120 days by end-FY95/96.
90 days by end- FY97/98. and 60 days by end- FY98/99 and thereafter.
3.29  Status of AWSA Audit: There are no outstanding audits for AWSA's Financial
Statements, Special Account and Statements of Expenditures.



37
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. MAIN BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
4.01  Benefits: The Project is expected to produce the following immediate benefits:
(a) the Regional Governments would develop improved technical, financial, planning and
administrative capacity to implement and manage urban water supply and sanitation
schemes and rural water supply operations at both water bureau and operational level; (b)
four Regional Governments would have administrative office headquarters and small-scale
service facilities to provide technical support for rural water supply operations; (c) AWSA
would develop a well-functioning financial management system, and administrative and
planning capacity as well as administrative facilities required to undertake major future
investments in water supply and sanitation schemes in Addis Ababa; (d) pre-investment
studies and consequent detailed engineering studies would be carried out for the 25 towns
in all the Regions to facilitate future sector planning of the Regional Governments; (e)
appropriate principles and management capacity for pricing and cost recovery for the
urban water supply operations would be established and implemented by MOWR and the
Regional Governments; (f) a sector regulatory framework would be established by
MOWR and the Regional Governments, which would take into account market entry and
exit, participation of the public, incentives for performance, control of monopoly and
enforcement of regulations; and (g) immediate rehabilitation of water schemes and
provision of maintenance rigs and mobile workshops will improve availability, reliability
and quality of water supply.
4.02  The development of management capacity and establishment of an appropriate
regulatory framework would contribute to the improvement of performance of both urban
and rural operations. The direct and immediate benefit of these improvement is, among
others, a reduction, in unaccounted-for water. The short-term minor rehabilitation of
water supply and sanitation systems in the project towns and establishment of
administrative headquarters would have a positive impact, primarily on urban and adjacent
peri-urban populations. A study and a pilot scheme for developing least cost rural water
supply systems would benefit the rural populations.  In respect of the physical
improvement of the sector, major rehabilitation of the urban systems in the project towns
would be carried out in a follow-on investment project, and actual investments in
rehabilitation and development of rural water supply systems would be made with
assistance of IDA's proposed Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project.
4.03   Although the Project is not a direct poverty intervention program,7 in the long run
it would have a particularly beneficial impact on the poor and women. A general
improvement in health arising from the provision of safe water and sanitation services,
including a reduction in intestinal morbidity and infant mortality, would contribute to
higher labor productivity of the population. Easier access to a reliable supply of safe
7  Therefore, the poverty category of the project is "Not Applicable", in the Credit and Project
Summary.



38
water would relieve women of the burden of fetching water, allowing them to spend more
time on productive pursuits and caring for their families. In addition, the poor are likely to
be the major beneficiaries of employment to be generated through future follow-on sector
investments.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.04  Project Benefits: The economic benefits of the Project would include:
(a)    health benefits from the reduction in water-borne morbidity and infant
mortality,8 which would contribute to higher labor productivity of the
population;
(b)   reduction of women's and children's burden of fetching water;
(c)   consumers' surplus to be generated from an increase in water consumption;
(d)   potential increase in the efficiency of production costs and extension of the
lifetime of the water supply network due to improved managerial efficiency
and employees' productivity; and
(e)    potential reduction in unaccounted for water, both administrative and
physical, which is currently estimated to be approximately 40 percent of
total production, from improved managerial efficiency and immediate
rehabilitation of the water system.
4.05  For the economic analysis of the Project, two areas of benefits are quantified: (i)
the benefits from the incremental quantity of water supplied to the 25 Project towns,
including new water production and a reduction in unaccounted for water; and (ii) the
health benefits brought by a more reliable and accessible supply of safe water to the 25
Project towns and in other areas where maintenance service would be improved.
Approximately 550,000 people who live in 25 project towns and about 8.2 million people
who live in other areas where maintenance service would be provided are considered as
beneficiaries of the Project (this excludes additional potential beneficiaries in the adjacent
peri-urban population and Addis Ababa, in order to be on the conservative side of the
estimate). Shadow prices and exchange rates were not estimated since Ethiopia has been
undertaking a series of macroecomic reforms which have reduced distortions.
8  The second major cause of under-5 morbidity in 1990 was gastro-enteritis and colitis (this morbidity
rate was 13.4 percent according to the Ministry of Health, Comprehensive Health Service Directory,
1991), and about one quarter of all under-5 morbidity were water-borne related.



39
4.06 Benefits from Incremental Quantity of Water. The incremental quantity of
water will be used by the beneficiaries to: (i) replace existing sources, e.g., water from
vendors, and (ii) increase water consumption.  Only benefits from  increased water
consumption were estimated. This gives a conservative estimation of benefits, since we
have not estimated the consumers' surplus due to replacing water from vendors because of
lack of reliable information related to vendor water prices beyond the 25 project towns.
The benefits from replacing vendor water could be substantial given that people are paying
ETB 5 to 25 per m3 of water. The following facts and assumptions are used:
(a) water consumption in the 25 project towns will increase from the current 7
liter per person per day (Ipd) to 15 lpd by the year 2000 and will be gradually
increased to the national standard of 20 lpd by the year 2003;
(b) water consumption in the other areas, where maintenance service will be
improved with the equipment acquired through the project, will increase from
the current 15 liter per person per day (Ipd) to 16 lpd by the year 1998;
(c) the average current tariffs, ranging from ETB 0.5 to ETB 2.5 in the project
towns, will be gradually increased to an average tariff of ETB 2.5 by the year
2000; 9 and
(d) Unaccounted for water in the 25 project towns will be gradually reduced from
40 percent to about 30 percent to the year 2005.
The NPV of the benefits from increased water supply is US$31.5 million. The details are
presented in Annex 12.
4.07  Health Benefits. We have included health benefits in the calculation to take into
account the expected improvements in water quality, which may not be captured by the
current willingness to pay by consumers. However, to avoid duplication, we have only
included 50 percent of the estimated health benefits. To be on the conservative side as
well, these benefits do not include the benefits of higher productivity brought about by an
improvement in the health of the population. The following assumptions and data are
used:
(a)   prevailing rates of water-borne disease which is, on average, 45/1000 in a
two-week period; average days of restricted activity (6.2 days per
incidence); and average expenditure on treatment of disease (ETB 17.5 per
capita per year);'0
(b)   a current average of US$130 per capita income and an average annual two
percent growth; and
9  The tariff of ETB 2.5/m3 is taken as a proxy to willingness to pay.
10  From the Central Statistical Office report on Rural Health.



40
(c)   it is assumed that the economically active population lose 80 percent of
their income when they are sick due to water-borne disease. For the
younger and older population, only 20 percent of their income per capita is
assumed to be lost when they are sick."
From these assumptions, about US$4 are estimated to be lost per capita due to water
borne/wash diseases. Only half of this amount, however, has been used to estimate the
health costs caused by water bome/wash diseases. The present value of the savings on
health costs is estimated at US$18.0 million.
4.08   Project Costs and Least Cost Solution: Project costs include both investment
and recurrent costs. To carry out the economic analysis, investment costs were calculated
for the rehabilitation of the water supply facilities of the 25 towns which total US$11.4
million (net of duties and taxes, but including physical contingencies), or 23 percent of
total investment. The capacity building components, including studies, training, technical
assistance and institutional support (equipment and buildings), have also been included in
the project costs because they will have a positive impact on the supply of water. The
capacity building and institutional support activities which are aimed at the 25 project
towns have been included in full amount, while the ones directed to regions have been
apportioned according to the number of towns to be serviced or rehabilitated under the
project relative to the total number of towns in the regions. These capacity building
components total about US$13.3 mnillion, bringing the total costs to US$ 24.7. Recurrent
costs are estimated at about US$2.9 million per year for the 25 towns and other regional
towns, increasing with the increase in output. All costs are calculated taking into account
the least cost of rehabilitation and O&M, including physical contingencies. The NPV of
the project costs (both investment and O&M) due to the Project is US$38.8 million.
4.09 Economic Rate of Return. The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the
water supply rehabilitation and capacity building components is 18.4% (See Table I in
Annex 12). The net present value of the rehabilitation works and capacity building at a 12
percent discount rate is US$10.6 million. The benefit cost ratio is 1.27.
4.10  Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis: The major risk to this Project is that
GFDRE would delay implementing key policy issues, including establishment of an
appropriate institutional framework and implementation of tariff increases. An additional
risk is that the project management capacity of the newly created regional administrations
may not improve as fast as desired. To mitigate these risks technical assistance, training
and conditionalities will be provided. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to measure the
effect of these risks on the expected returns of the Project. Five variables were taken into
account: (i) delays in tariff increase; (ii) lower water consumption; (iii) higher operating
This percentage is smaller for this segment of the population since their participation in income
generating activities is smaller, but has to include the burden to the adults who might have to limit
their income generating activities to take care of sick children.



41
costs; (iv) prolonged implementation period; and (v) smaller health benefits. If the tariffs
are increased only to ETB 1.65 by year 2000, the ERR would be reduced to 12.0 percent.
If water consumption reaches only 8.2 lpd, instead of 15 lpd by the year 2000, the ERR
will be 12.0 percent. If the investment and O&M costs are 23 percent higher than the
estimated US$24.7 million and US$2.9 million per year, the ERR will be reduced to 12.0
percent. If we include only 20 percent of the health benefits, compared with the base case,
the ERR would be 12.0 percent. Two years' delay in implementation of the project
(including higher O&M costs due to delay) will lower the ERR to 12.4 percent. The
summary is in Table 8 below.
Table 8: Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario                                                             Economic Rate
of Return
Base Case "most likely" Scenario:
Tariff = 2.5 ETB/m3; Water Consumption = 15 lpd by the year 2000 and 21.8
lpd by the year 2005; Total Investment = US$24.7; O&M Costs = US$2.9
million per year; US$2 per capita lost due to water borne/wash diseases  18.4%
Lower Tariff:
Tariff = 1.65 ETB/m3                                                 12.0%
Lower Water Consumption
(about 50% of base case); Water Consumption = 8.2 lpd by the year 2000 and
8.8 lpd by the year 2005                                             12.0%
Higher Investment and O&M Costs (23% higher)
Total Investment Cost of Component = US$30.5 million and O&M = US$3.8
million per year                                                     12.0%
Smaller Health Benefits
20% of estimated base case health benefits                           10.0%
2 Year Delay in Implementation
Implementation takes 6 instead of 4 years (including higher costs due to delay)  12.4%
4.11  Poverty Impact and Affordability: The project will improve water supply for
about 8.7 million people in small towns with relatively high poverty. Most water
consumption in these towns is for domestic use, with very small amounts used for
commercial or institutional uses. In a survey carried out by WSSA in 198912, for a town
with similar characteristics, about 52% of the population had an annual per capita income
of US$97 or less, which means that this project, serving a similar population, will benefit a
large percentage of poor. The current tariff varies from ETB 0.5 to ETB 2.5 per cubic
meter of water in the project towns. As noted in para 3.15, tariffs have not been raised in
some of the towns for decades, therefore, this increase is included in the Government
12 WSSA and DEVECON, Five Towns Water and Sanitation Study, Phase I Report, Volume I - Gore,
1993.



42
strategy for the sector. People interviewed expressed their willingness to pay higher tariffs
as long as water is available; many of them are already paying vendors from ETB 12.5 in
the wet season to ETB 25 in the dry season, per cubic meter of water. In two towns
where water supply schemes have been constructed, the water tariffs have been increased
to ETB 5.00. At the estimated tariff of ETB 2.5, the cost of water in 2000 would
constitute some 2 percent of an average household income, which is less than in other
African countries. If a progressive tariff structure is introduced, the burden on poor
households could be reduced. This aspect will be further analyzed under the Project.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.12   Since the Project would not involve any major civil works, no adverse
environmental impact is expected. The Project would, in the long run, contribute to the
improvement of the environment in the form of safe water and better sanitation for the
local populations. The Project has a "C" environmental rating. All costs are calculated
taking into account the least cost design of schemes estimated at appraisal.
4.13  Environmental Assessment: The integration of environmental concerns in the
water sector is one of the major subjects of studies and training under the Project. The
engineering studies and design component includes an environmental assessment of the
impact of the works for construction and expansion of the new water supply schemes to
be carried out under the future follow-on project. The technical assistance sub-component
for technical management of water supply operations and the training component include
mitigation of any adverse environmental impact of water supply operations and
environmentally sustainable planning methods.
4.14   Riparian Issue: Since the Project only involves minor rehabilitation of existing
systems and engineering studies, it will not have any impact on other riparians and will not
be appreciably harmed by the other riparians' possible water use. Among the 25 water
supply schemes, only two towns have water sources from an international waterway or a
tributary of an international waterway: Gambella's water source is the Baro River, which
originates in Ethiopia, and Gebreguracha's source is a tributary of the Abay River, which
also originates in Ethiopia (Lake Tana). All the other schemes' sources are boreholes,
springs or domestic lakes. For Gambella town, no rehabilitation works or engineering
study for water supply schemes will be carried out under the Project since UNICEF is
already undertaking source improvement work. For Gebreguracha, since the immediate
rehabilitation work is confined to a minor rehabilitation of the existing scheme, the
scheme's nature and scope will not be changed and there will be no impact on the river.
4.15   Land Acquisition and Resettlement:  Land acquisition is required only for
construction of water supply headquarters in Afar, Gambella, Somali and Benshangul
Regions and there is no resettlement involved. All these Regions, including their capital
towns, are very scarcely populated. The sites, which have been identified, are already
used for other administrative functions of the Regional Governments or already reserved
for construction of the office buildings.



43
D. SUSTAINABILITY
4.16  Sustainability: The Project is essentially designed to ensure the sustainability of
the water supply and sanitation operations by assisting capacity building of the sector
institutions, sector investment planning and establishment of an appropriate regulatory
framework.
4.17  Mechanisms have been built in to ensure accountable transfer of skills and
sustainable improvement of institutional capacity, the technical assistance and training
components to be provided under the Project.  Sustainability of improvement of
performance would be ensured by providing the counterpart staff with clearly defined
work plans, incentive schemes and an objective performance evaluation system; by
establishing clearly defined exit mechanisms with time-bound performance monitoring
targets; and by coordinating the technical assistance with other training activities. The
design of studies and technical assistance includes those features, as described in para.
3.05.  Financial sustainability would be ensured by appropriate water tariffs to be
implemented by the Regions.
E. PROJECT RISKS
4.18 The major risk would be delays in GFDRE implementing key policy issues,
including establishment of an appropriate institutional framework and implementation of
tariff increases. This risk would be minimized by confirmation of the Government's
commitment in the Letter of Sector Policy and upfront tariff increases. The project
management capacity of some of the newly created Regional Governments may not
improve as fast as desired; this risk would be mitigated by early initiation of capacity
building activities through utilization of the Project Preparation Facility and the proposed
technical assistance and training to be provided under the Project.



44
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5. 01  During Negotiations:   The following agreements were reached during
negotiations:
(a)   Tariff increases to cover operation and maintenance costs for the
project towns would be implemented by June 30, 1998 (paras. 1.23 and
3.17);
(b)   Audit reports would be subrnitted to IDA within six months from the close
of each fiscal year (para 2.20);
(c)   Counterpart staff for the regional and towns studies components would be
appointed by June 1996 (para 3.05);
(d)   The project progress report, including performance against the monitoring
indicators (except socio-economic indicators), will be submitted to the
Bank every quarter of the fiscal year (paras 3.08 through 3.10);
(e)   By November 30, 1996, target monitoring indicators would be agreed,
based on the results of the baseline study, for review at mid-term and
project completion (para 3.10).
(f)    An interim review will be undertaken by September 30, 1997 (para 3.11);
(g)   AWSA will be required to generate total revenues equivalent to not less
than the sum of: (i) its total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by
which debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation, for
the project period (para 3.19); and
(h)   AWSA will be required to reduce its accounts receivable to 120 days by
end FY95/96, 90 days by end- FY97/98 and 60 days by end- FY98/99
(para 3.28);
5.02  Prior to Effectiveness of the Credit: The following actions would be taken prior
to effectiveness of the Credit:
(a)   Signing of Grant Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and AWSA
(para 2.10);
(b)   Provision of terms of reference, acceptable to IDA, for the preparation of
monitoring indicators (para 3.10); and



45
(c)   Award of capacity building studies consultancy contracts, which include
establishment of monitoring indicators (para 3. 10).
RECOMMENDATION
5.03  Based on the above assurances and agreements the Project is suitable for a
Credit to Ethiopia in an amount of SDR 24 million (US$35.73 equivalent).






ANNEX-I
Page 1 f 17
rhe rederal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Ministry of Water Resources
Mr. Stephen Weissman
Division Chief, AF2 El
The World Bank
1818 H.Street, N.W
Washington D.C., 20433
ILSA
Sub: Letter of Sector Policy
Attached herewith please find a copy of the Letter of Sector Policy which was finalised
according to our discussion during the Negotiation held in Washington, D.C, from December
11-15, 1995.
Best Regards
0-
n^}              Sx,n                     *~~~~r.ln                 ;^.". e.Ode
Please Quote our Ref. No. When Rtpivint
I .:                   ~I .ex                    Telefax                    p. o. BO!,
ADDIS ABABA



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 17
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES
Letter of Sector Policy
January 1996
t-%Q7ztt K.- e e



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 17
Table of Contents
Summary  Action  Plan ................................................................i
1.          Background of Water Supply and Sanitation Sector.....I................................... I
2.          Sector Objectives  ...............................................................    2
3.          Regionalisation  (Decentralisation)  ...............................................................                                                      3
4.          Linkage with other Sectors ...............................................................                                                                3
5.   Water Resource Management .........................:                                                                                                             3
6    Technology Development ........................                                                                                                                  4
7.   Institutional Framework ........................   5
8  Capacity Building. ........................ 7
9.    Establishment of National Standard ........................                                                                                                     8
10.          Cost Recovery  and  Financing  Strategy  ....................................................... ...                                                      9
11.          Roles of the Public and Private Sectors .........................................................    10
12.          Performance  Incentives  and  Accountability  ....................                                          .........................                    11
13.          Efficiency Management ...............................................................                                                                    11
14.          Participation  of Stakeholder  ...............................................................                                                           12
15.          Enforcement of Regulations  and  Monitoring   .............................                                              .......................    12
16.          Investment Planning  ............................                                         ...................................                            13
17.          Donor Coordination  ......................                                         .........................................                             14
,                 ~~~~~~~~~~~t



ANNEX 1
Pkge 4 of 17
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Letter of Sector Policy
Summary Action PlaD
ISSUES                                    ACTIONS                               Time Frame
Regulatory                 Completion of Regulatory Framework Study                   1997
Framework                   Development of rural water supply policy                  1997
Integration of water        Implementation of integrated water supply and sanitation  2000
supply and sanitation      schemes in 64 Woredas
Rehabilitation and          Rehabilitation of systems for 12 towns                    1996
improvement of              Rehabilitation of systems for some of the 25 Project towns  1999
existing water supply       under WSDRP
and sanitation
systems
Capacity Building           improvement of technical management, financial management    1999
and organization management for the Regional Govemments
,       Water Supply Policy Development and Promotion by UNICEF   1997
Establishment of TA unit in the Ministry for Regional     on-going
Governments
Construction of new         Consrtruction: 2 towns financed by IDA                    1996
water supply systems        Construction: 7 towns to be commenced with finance from AfDB 1996
FFeasibility study for 11 towns financed by JICA          1998
Feasibility study for 3 towns financed by Kfiv            1998
Linkage with Other          Establishment of consultative forum among government agencies mid-1996
Sector
Water Resource              Establishment of integrated data systems for water resource  1998
Management                  management
Establishment of water resource master plan for river basins
Omo/Gibe and Baro basins                          1996
Tekeze and Abay basins                            1999
Awash, Wabi-Shebele, Rift Valley and Genale basins 2000
Technology                  Research for development of appropriate technologies for rural  on-going
Development                 water supply at MOWR
Research for development of appropriate sanitation technology   1999
with assistance from UNDP
Cost Recovery               Finalization of timing for implementing tariff increases for non  1996
Project related towns
Study on rural water supply tariffs with assistance from UNDP  1998
Performance                 Study on incentive schemes for regional bureaus with assistance 1996-1997
Incentive and               from WSRDP
Accountability
Efficiency                  Introduction of demand control                            2005
Management
Legal provisions for protection of water supply resources  1998
Improvement of operational efficiency with assistance from  1996-1999
WSDRP
Participation of            establishment of forum for rural water supply with assistance    1996
Stakeholders               from WSDRP
community based construction and maintenance of rural water   1996
supply systems under ESRDFP                               onward
Donor Coordination          Establishment of donor consultation forum                 1996
.,      Resour 



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 17
1.    Background of Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
1.1   The status of the water supply and sanitation sector in Ethiopia, is
rather poor. Most of the population, urban and rural alike, do not have
adequate and safe access to potable water supplies or sanitation
facilities, leaving people vulnerable to a host of water and sanitation
related infectious diseases. Women and young girls are overly burdened
within the sector, as they are the main suppliers and users of domestic
water, and therefore, remain the most susceptible to water-related
illnesses. Environmental degradation is an immediate concern, with
grave implications for the provision of water and sanitation, severely
impairing the natural conditions of the country and resulting in a
forest cover of under 4 percent in 1990. In brief, over 70% of disease
in the country are water-borne diseases.
1.2   Adequate water supply in Ethiopia is defined as 20 litres/capita/day
available within a range of 0.5 -1 km from a dwelling. Sanitation is
defined only by accessibility to a latrine without consideration of the
status of such a facility, as well as the determination of its use. The
level of heath/hygiene education and the general awareness of the
population concerning potable water and safe environmental sanitation is
extremely low. Water quality is a major problem. Reports on water
quality from various parts of the country indicate that the existing
situation is far from satisfactory.
1.3   Existing data indicate that the overall coverage of water supply is 26%,
while the national coverage for sanitation is estimated to be 7%.
Further analysis of the coverage indicates that out of the total
estimated 46.8 million rural population only 9 million or 18.8% have
access to safe drinking water through an estimated 6000 different rural
water supply schemes. The water supply coverage in urban areas, where
some 10% of the population lives, is relatively better with about 76% of
them supplied with potable water. The urban percentage includes those
with low levels of services. Major problems in the urban water supply
services include, low production levels, inadequate distribution systems
and leakage in many areas, estimated to be more than 30% of the water
passing through the distribution network.
1.4   The existing financial policy for water supply is not adequate.  Current
tariff rates are not based on cost recovery and as a result, there is
hardly any room for rehabilitation and expansion of the schemes. Actual
investment for water supply are far below requirements particularly when
one takes into consideration the overall water supply coverage in the
country.
1.5   In summary, during the last several years, a number of constraints have
greatly suppressed the possibility of achieving the targets which have
been set for the water and sanitation sector. Water supply and
sanitation issues have not been addressed in an integrated fashion. Lack
of sufficient involvement from project beneficiaries have forfeited
success and sustainability of most projects. Inappropriate technology
and experimentation on low cost options has resulted in few affordable
alternatives. An urban bias for water supply and sanitation activities
has kept rural development at an all-time low. In the past regime
government allocations to the sector have been relatively low.   Poor
co-ordination among sector partners has resulted in excessive
duplication and no synergism.
1.6   The major factor that accounted for the existence of the above mentioned
constraints is the lack of sector policy. The purpose of this document
is, therefore, to describe the sector policies that the country plans to
follow during implementation of the proposed IDA financed and other
donors projects.
,,'vernme. '.
-\a  
?< S  9~~~-/



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 17
2.    Sector Objectives
2.1   The overall development objective of the sector is to improve the well-
being, health and productivity of the population by increasing coverage
and ensuring the long-term viability of water supply and sanitation
operations in line with the government's regionalization policies.
These objectives will be achieved through:
-     establishing the regulatory framework for the sector;
-     formulation of integrated water supply and sanitation programmes;
-     ensuring sustainability and efficiency through rehabilitation and
improvement of the water supply and sanitation infrastructure and
operations;
-     construction of new water supply and sanitation in urban and rural
areas giving due considerations to least cost options;
-     capacity building, including institutional infrastructure &
manpower development of the Regional Administrations and water
supply and sanitation institutions; and involvement and
participation of the communities, particularly women; this is
assisted by the community participation and promotion offices
established under zonal water sections.
2.02 These measures are supported by the following donor assistance programs:
-     The Regulatory Framework Study to be carried out by 1996 under the
IDA financed Water Supply Development & Rehabilitation Project
(WSDRP) and the UNICEF's 1994-99 Programme output, through its
Water Supply Policy Development & Promotion (WSPDP), will assist
in developing policies to be used as guidelines especially for the
development of rural water supply;
-     The integrated sanitation program is now underway with the
assistance of UNICEF's WISS programme in 64 "weredas" during the
programme period. FINNIDA is also following this approach under
its Rural Water Supply & Environmental Programme (1994-1998) in
the Amhara Region;
-     Currently rehabilitation of 12 towns water supply schemes is
underway with a grant obtained from the government of Germany
(KfW). The proposed IDA project also addresses this issue and
implementation will be undertaken in some of the 25 towns;
-     Construction of water supply schemes is recently completed in 5
Towns (ADS financed), and underway in other 2 Towns with IDA
credit. In other 9 Towns (7 of them to be financed by ADB) it is
expected to commence in the 2M quarter of 1996;
-     Technical assistance and training will be provided through the
implementation of the IDA's WSDRP, the UNICEF's WSPDP and other
donors' programmes.
3.    Regionalisation (Decentralisation)
3.1   The national policy, understandably urges a rapid increase in the water
supply coverage of the population. Moreover, in order to improve the
sustainability of the water supply and sanitation sector, different
measures have been taken among which decentralisation of former WSSA
functions through strengthening of regional capacities is one of them.
The water sector was reorganised, in 1992, and again reviewed and as a
result the Ministry of Water Resources was established in August 1995,
to bring it in line with the general administrative changes being made
in the country. Strategic decisions concerning this reorganisation have
rt^_  ,- ';<  O  n'
>Qeb., A~~~'
- > - > 1I
.        J



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 17
already taken place. Ownership of water supply schemes and
responsibility for their operation and maintenance has been passed to
the new administrative regions. WSSD, created under the Ministry, will
be reaponsible, by and large. for giving technical assistance for the
newly established regions. The decentralisation process shall continue
with added impetus stressing optimum utilisation of available resources
and the requirements of the New Regional Governments.
4.    Linkage with other Sectors
4.1   The Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR) is the overall authority for the
sector. The other important government agencies, either directly
involved or of particular relevance to the sector, are the following:
-     Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation (MEDaC)
-     Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MoWUD)
-     Ministry of Health (MoH)
-     Ministry of Agriculture (MoA)
-     Ministry of Finance (MoF)
-     Disaster Prevention & Preparedness Commission (DPPC)
-     Water Works Construction Enterprise (WWCE)
-     Water Well Drilling Enterprise (WWDE)
-     National Meteorological Services Agency (NMSA) and
-     Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA).
4.2   Coordination among the sector partners, has been weak.  However, in
order to maximise the economic and social benefits, linkages and co-
ordination among the above sector partners shall be improved, and, to
this effect the government will oroanise consultative forums for
governmental sector Partners beainnina from mid 1996. Consultation
meetings will be held at least once annually. The MoWR will be the
chairman and secretary of the Meeting and the Vice Ministers,
Commissioner and General Managers of the sector organisations will be
members of the consultation meeting.
S.    Water Resource Management
5.1   Water for agriculture and community water supplies are areas that will
merit priority attention. Equally important will be problems related to
pollution of water resources. Still other areas of critical concern
include the incidence of floods and droughts, water for hydroelectric
power generation, industry and matters related to the utilisation and
management of shared water resources.
5.2   Assessment of the water resources is an important prerequisite to
planning, development, policy formulation and the operation and
management of water resources in their multiple uses. The establishment
of integrated, reliable data Eystems, to include the functions of
gathering, storage, retrieval, analysis, dissemination and use of
meteorological, hydrometeorological, hydrological and hydrogeological
data will, therefore, be a priority consideration. To this effect, a
study assisted by the Netherlands government under its 'miliev"
programme, (80% to be financed from the "miliev" facility) will be
undertaken beginning from mid 1996.
5.3   An integrated inter disciplinary approach to the formulation of water
policies and appropriate legislative and administrative arrangements
will be important components of national water management.
Considerations will include cost-effectiveness as well as social
benefits and environmental conditions. The creation of consultative
forum, indicated under 4.2 above, will help in the formulation of
Policies and guidelines aoorooriate to the realisation of such
oblectives.
/  c Coernme.,0



ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 17
5.4   Appropriate legislation will be fundamental to the optimum development
of water resources. Provisions which regulate water management will be
enforced and will be periodically reviewed and updated. To this effect,
Water Resource Utilisation Proclamation no. 92/94 is issued in 1994.
Guidelines for the establishment of Water Committees has also been
prepared by the former WSSA and is being used by the zonal water
sections.
5.5   For proper co-ordination of all water related national activities, a
centralised authority responsible for policy preparation and
implementation as well as a decentralised approach to water policy
making and implementation to suit a federal system of government are
considered and the appropriate institutional arrangement is under
implementation since 1993 (proclamation No. 41/1993).
5.6   The establishment of a water resource master Plan for each river basin
has been in progress to varying degrees. For Omo/Gibe and Baro-Akobo
river basins, preparations of master plans is underway (Completion
Target: 1996). Studies have also been initiated for most of the major
river basins. For Abay and Tekeze basins, consultants teams have been
selected and works are under progress (Completion Target: 1999). For
Wabi Shebele baain, preparation of master plan is scheduled for 1996
(Completion Target: 2000). For Awash basin, the surface water study
has already been undertaken (Completion Target: 2000). For Rift Valley
basin, a preliminary survey has been prepared and a study will be
initiated soon (Completion Target: 2000). For Genale basin, only
preliminary capacity assessment has been undertaken (Completion Target:
2000).,
6.    Technology Development
6.1   A systematic approach to applied research, aimed at exploring
alternative options and developing these for practical application, has
not been sufficiently promoted in the past. Efficient mechanisms for
the dissemination of replicable technologies are lacking and co-
coordination and registration of experimental projects as inputs to the
learning process has not been initiated.
6.2   For water supply many approaches have been tried out in practice and
many innovative technology modifications have been put to test. These
should be pursued with added vigor in the future and new programs should
be initiated and expanded. Researches are being undertaken on hand
pumps, solar power and wind mill driven pumps.
6.3   However, sanitation has not been a priority and therefore knowledge of
recent developments in technology and approaches remains limited.   The
concept of the ventilated improved pit latrines is known, but not fully
understood by technicians and extension workers. There is also a clear
need to further refine and adalt low-cost and aprocriate sanitation
technolocv for urban areas. as the use and application of conventional
water-borne sewerage will be minimal. This can be demonstrated throuch
the Dlanned "Urban Sanitation Proiect" expected to be financed by UNDP
in the near future. With local staff, studies have also been conducted
on sanitation in some of the major urban areas under the Public Works
Programme, even though it is not yet implemented due to lack of
financial resources.
6.4   The relevant policy issues to be considered will be: (i) creating a
favourable environment for the public sector to fulfill promotional and
regulatory functions [this is already created]; (ii) building local
manufacturing capacity, [the new economic reform of 1992]; (iii)
facilitating the growth of local well/bore hole drilling enterprises,
(the Water Well Drilling Enterprise is improving its efficiency and
other public and private enterprises are coming to the market); and (iv)
overnr.5
J~~~~~0



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 17
establishing appropriate technology standards suitable to local
conditions. The MoWR intends to assist recions' technology develonment
with assistance from some donors much as UNCDF. UNDP and UNICEF.
7.    Institutional Framework
7.1   The Ministry formulates policies, strategies and provide guidelines,
while the Regional Bureaus are implementors of same and their own plans
The existing institutional arrangement/framework for the sector includes
the following, and their main duties and responsibilities are indicated
below:
The Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR)
It has powers and duties, inter alia, to determine the condition and
methods required for the optimum allocation and utilisation of water
that flows across or lies between more than one regional self-
governments, among various uses and regions, including transboundary
water. It also initiates the preparation of master plans for the
development of valleys, including the undertaking of studies pertaining
to water tariff and collection of bulk charges for large scale water
supply schemes, dams and the like. [The powers and duties of the
Ministry still go further to the extent of controlling the impact of
natural resources on the environment and preventing water, soil and air
pollution]. it carries out its functions in the sector through the
following major/technical departments.
-     Planning and Projects Departsent
It prepares the country's water resource policy and strategy;
coordinates the relevant government offices and various
Departments of the Ministry to prepare the Federal Water Policy,
Prepares an integrated short, medium and long-term plans for the
water sector. Besides, it follows up implementation, evaluates
and prepares socio-economic studies for vital projects and conduct
studies on water tariff policy. The Department prepares and
provides to the Federal Government, Regional Governments and
investors as, required, detail of projects that were covered by
the Master Plan Studies.
-     Basins Development Studies Department
Studies and prepares the country's water basin master plans,
identify projects that could be implemented with in basins,
conduct feasibility studies and realize that the Master Plan
studies take the nation's water resources, natural resources, land
and socio-economic features into account.
-     Trans-boundary Rivers Study Department
Conduct studies on trans-boundary rivers, realize that the benefit
from such rivers are secured and in line with the international
water use principles, national integrity and advantages.
-     Design Department
Conducts survey and design of various water works that are to be
undertaken by the Federal Government; control and follow-up works
of foreign consultants. The Department monitors and finds out
remedies for any environmental impact of designed construction
works associated with prepared designs. It provides technical and
professional support for water supply ).igation works to
Regional Administrations.         ,  >  
/ ,~ ~ ~~~~~.



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 17
Contract Administration Department
Develop estimate for water works of the Federal Government
projects; prepares specification and contract agreements; prepares
equipment, material, financial and manpower requirements for
projects implementation, prepares tender documents; monitors that
construction works and equipment installations are done as per the
agreement. Develops and implements water works studies and design
standards; besides, approves the existence of professional
efficiency for water resources development studies and design.
Water Rights Administration and Water Utilization Control
Department
Plans methodologies on rational distribution of water resources
between regions. Follow up their implementation as approved.
Provide permits for irrigation and various water works
implementing parties on regions-crossing rivers/water; follow up
water tariff implementation; controls bulk use of water; controls
and monitors the safety of dam and irrigation structures;
cooperate with relevant parties to conduct studies and research
that improves water management methodologies.
Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD)
Plans methodology for expansion of water supply & sewerage
services in the country. Studies and presents for decision, water
quality standards for various uses and safeness of different
sewers; follow-up and monitors their practicality as approved;
generate relevant policy for sanitation and sewage disposal; plans
implementation strategies; provides technical support and
professional advises for regional administration water supply and
sewerage service offices.
National Meteorological Service Agency (NNSA)
NMSA collects, analyses and disseminates data and information on
climatic, weather and atmospheric conditions through out the
country.
REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS
At a regional level, the Regional Water, Mines and Energy Bureaus are
responsible for the overall development, management and utilisation of
water resources:
The duties and responsibilities of the bureaus, among others, include
the following:
to ensure that central government laws, regulations and directives
issued in relation to the conservation and utilisation of water
resources are respected in the regions;
to control the implementation of the country's water resources
development policies;
to grant permits to persons engaged in water works construction
activities, such as dams and other works, in view of utilising the
water resources of the regions;
-     to supervise the balanced distribution and utilisation of the
water resources of the regions for various types of services or
uses;
-     plan, study and design rural water supply schemes;
-     supervise and inspect the activities of.wAt_r service units;
.   '/ 1.  ,    v



ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 17
-     provide technical and maintenance services for the water service
units and the rural water points; and
-     promote community participation.
The Regional governments have the authority to decide on water and
sewerage tariffs. They also formulate their investment plans within the
budget ceiling allocated to them by the central government.
8.    Capacity Building
8.1   Given Ethiopia's potential resource base, to support overall economic
and social activity, and the radically new approach of decentralisation,
new management skills will be required, both for MoWR and the regions.
In this regard, there is a need to formulate a comprehensive management
system to increase the capacity to manage, administer, operate and
maintain the existing systems, as well as to implement new programmes
and projects. With emerging decentralisation in water supply and
sanitation activities, the creation of a strong management and planning
systems at regional levels is absolutely necessary. In brief, the
pillars for sustainability of water supply and sanitation services is
capacity building at different levels.
8.2   There is also a need to upgrade the facilities and equipment,
particularly those of the Regional bureaus. Clear operational
procedures and lines of information flow need to be established between
the central and the regional bureaus. There is also a need to set-up a
system of standardisation of equipment, management and information flow
to provide logistic support to the regions. The number of professional
staff in the different regional bureaus need to be increased and
upgraded in order for them to handle new technological applications,
methodologies, as well as to adapt transfer of skills to zonal and water
supply units. In brief, the capacity building effort will concentrate
on:
-     formulation of comprehensive management system,;
-     formulation of training Droqrammes for senior. medium and lower
level mannower geared towards programme formulation.
implementation, monitoring. overation and maintenance. etc.; and
-     strengthening the institutional capacity through providing
eauipment. logistics support, spare Parts. workshop. and water
chemicals.
8.3   In order to improve the efficiency and sustainability of the
organisational, financial and technical management of the water supply
operations in the country, a project has been identified to be financed
by the World Bank. Other than this IDA's WSDRP, in the 5th cycle
Country Programme (1995-1996), UNDP has a capacity building component
for regional as well as central institutions which is now under
implementation. The output of the programme is expected to build and
strengthen the institutional capacity as well as develop human resources
in the sector in order to facilitate the provision of water supply
servic-e.  These Programmes will helo to develop management capacity of
the recional administrations to implement Policies, guidelines.  etc.
9.    Establishment of National Standard
9.1   With the present commitment to accelerate water supply coverage and to
bring the economic and social benefits of safe drinking water and
sanitary facilities, to both the urban and rural populations, more
resources are needed. To utilise the limited resources effectively
requires, among other things, that the planning process be guided by
standards that will assist in evaluating programmes and projects so that
those selected for implementation can be rationally justified.
<f A\~~~~~~~-



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 17
9.2   Theoe standards relate to the quantity and quality of water to be
supplied for various uses. In the urban areas, domestic consumption per
capita per day in related to the level of service, ranging from in-house
connections to public fountains. Taking the existing crude data, the
standard for project planning, based on population size and level of
service, are indicated below;
Levels of Service for Water Supply in Ethiopia
Size of Population      Type of Service  Level of Service
Group
< 100                   Dug Well          Provided by community self
help
101 - 400               Dug Well          hand pump fitted
(Large
diameter)
401 - 2000              Drilled well      hand pump fitted 300 - 350
person. per well
2000 - 5000             Piped supply      95% service by public
fountain
300 - 350 person per
fountain
5000 - 10,000           Piped supply      80% service by public
fountain
400 - 500 person per
fountain
10,000 and above        Piped supply      60% service by public
fountain
400 - 500 person per
fountain
9.3   With regard to quantity standards, the present standard in
3S-40 l/c/d for urban contras and 15-25 l/c/d for rural
water supply schemes. However, it has to be noted that, the
design parameters for urban centres allow higher values than
the one indicated above, As far as quality standards are
concerned, the country has attempted to establish its own
standard, with the view of achieving WHO standard.
10.   Cost Recovery and Financing Strategy
10.1  Cost recovery is of paramount concern throughout the water
supply and sanitation sector. Because of the policies
pursued in the past, there has been a tendency to treat
water as a free commodity for which the people are not
expected to directly pay. However, changes are being forced
upon the government in view of the magnitude of the
investment, operation and maintenance costs of water supply
serviesm, particularly in urban areas. The lack of clear
policy toward cost recovery has greatly contributed to the
financial problema of water supply services. Experience
shows that, as long as water supply services are dependent
on central government budget allocations, they can hardly
operate efficiently. Safe and convenient water supply,
delivered to the consumer's house, is a highly valued
consumer good, and ther is no reason why the consumers
should not pay for it. The financial strateay in urban
arasa ther-fore, should be desianed to encourao-
conservation of water rerources and at the  sam  time, it
.-- .-
. , *} *~~~~~~: x,



ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 17
should be in a position to cover operation and maintenance
costs. Capital cost recovery should be maximised based on
the populations ability to pay: the lona term coal being the
phaging out of government subsidies. Within this framework.
tariff structure that accomplish these obiectives will be
introduced.
10.2  To this effect the government has established basic
principles and guidelines for pricing and cost recovery for
urban water supply and sanitation operation (March 1995).
According to the document the tariff will be signed on
marginal cost Pricing alproach which takes into account
economic. social and financial oblectivec of water
utilities. The tariff increase for Addis Ababa, effective
in May 1995, has been approved by AAWSA's Board. A formal
approval for the tariff increases for urban water supply in
Oromia Regional Administration, including Assela and
Shashemene towns, will be given by the Oromia Regional
Council and a notification will be issued accordingly.
Tariff increases in other towns will be made step-by-step
after some studies are conducted and approved by the
respective Regional Administrations. By 1996 Regions will
finalize a tinme frame for implementation of the tariff
increase and commence implementation thereafter in the
remaining towns. The imolementation of tariff adiustment
will be in phases and the full cost recovery (urban water
suoolv) may be reached over a oeriod of time depending on
the objective condition of each region.
10.3  With respect to rural water supply tariff, there was no
clear policy. In some areas the users pay for water while
in others it is free of charge, but actively participate in
construction and operate and maintain the schemes through
their water committees. The policy of supplying water free
of charge, however, proved that the schemes could not be
sustained. Hence, in order to address this problems and
ensure a sustainable rural water supply, a national rural
tariff study is llanned to be launched under the UNDP
financed 5th Cycle Country Proaramme (1994-99). The study
is expected to come up with tariff structure, based on
affordability, which will enable to cover at least the
operation and maintenance costs of rural water supply
schemes. The study is expected to commence in the second
quarter of 1996.
11.   Roles of the Public and Private Sectors
11.1  The role of the public sector is to prepare policy
guidelines and regulations, plans and strategies, provide
budgetary and technical assistance, monitoring and
supervision for the overall development of the sector, while
the role of the private sector is providing consultancy
services for feasibility studies and design and actively
participating in construction, drilling and supplying of
pumps, generators, pipes and fittings, etc. Specifically,
the private sector can participate in the following areas;
(a)   As consulting and counselling services:
-     conduct pre-feasibility and feasibility studies;
-     prepare designs and tender documents;
-     construction supervision; and
-     studies on institutional capacity building,
tariff, etc.
-~~~~~~~~~   F
* 1    *         )



ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 17
(b)   As a contractor:
-     water well drilling;
-     construct new water supply schemes; and
-     rehabilitate and maintain existing schemes.
(C)   As a provider of sanitation services
-     solid waste disposal; and
-     sewerage systems services.
11.2  The government will assess the conditions and leaal
framework for the Participation of vrivate sector in the
area of water supplv activities.  Accordingly. urivate
sector Participation in managina. overating and maintainina
water suuolv services. particularlv in urban areas. will be
considered in order to create comoetition and control
monomol . Consumers participation in controlling monopoly
will also be encouraged. In order to satisfy the fast
growing demand of the Regions, the involvement of the public
sector will continue until the private sector fully takes
over these activities.
12.   Performance Incentives and Accountability
12.1 The inadequacies in operation, maintenance and
monitoring, both in the urban and rural water services
is partly a manifestation of poor management, lack of
performance incentives and accountability. There is a
near depletion of professional manpower in the sector.
There is no incentive, whatsoever, as a result morale
and motivation of staff is low. Coupled with normal
aging of facilities, this situation has resulted in
many of the water supply systems, mostly in rural
areas, being non-operational. Hence, there is a need
to formulate incentive policies (such as bonuses,
better payment, long leave, training opportunities,
etc.) with clearly defined accountability if the water
services are going to be properly managed, operated
and maintained. Oroanizational study under the IDA's
WSDRP will look into this issue and make
recommendations.
13.   Efficiency Management
13.1 Master plan study preparations are under way in some
of the river basins aiming at optimum utilisation and
allocation of different users within a framework of
integrated development approach of water resources. A
master plan study for water supply financed by the
Dutch Government is also expected to start by mid-
1996. However, the maximum utilisation and efficient
management of these resources is very complex by
nature and will require not only a coordinated
planning among the different users, but a sound
institutional framework that will allow to formulate
policies, mechanism for coordinated planning, cost
recovery, monitoring and evaluation.
13.2 In this regard, measures that will help for the
efficient manaaement will be introduced.based on the
outcome of the study. Thus,
-     legal measures for the control and balanced use



ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 17
of water resource will be introduced;
-     demand-spreadina technigues aimed at relieving
peak demand pressure will be introduced; and
-     leoal provisions for the protection of water
supplv sources and enforcement of rules on use
and conservation of water will be introduced by
giving relevant authorities responsibility in
water resource system planning, simulation and
optimisation.
13.3 Furthermore, throuah the institutional capacity
buildino comoonent of the World Bank Project (Water
SuOolV Development and Rehabilitation} assistance will
be provided to improve olerational efficiency of water
supolv and sewerace utilities in each region.
Trainina will be Provided to the regions' water supplv
managers to improve their manaaement efficiency.
14.   Participation of Stakeholder
14.1 The main participants in the sector are the
government, bilateral and multilateral organisations,
international financial institutions, NGOs and the
consumers (communities). The government's main role
is formulating sector policies, planning and
coordination, budget allocation and capacity building,
while the role of the donors is mainly contributing
funds for construction, rehabilitation and, to a
certain deogree, for capacity building and operation
and maintenance. The rural communities are also
participating by contributing funds, labour for
construction, but their main contribution is operating
and maintaining the schemes through their water
committees.
14.2  In the future, the government will continue its role
as promoter, facilitator and coordinator. The rural
water supplv 2ilot Proiect. one of the components of
WSDRP. will create a forum for rural water supolv
activities. The Bank's Social Rehabilitation Fund
Proiect, which is under preparation, includes
community basgd construction approach. The
oroanizational study of WSDRP will make
recommendations as to how to improve communication
with stakeholders in decision making.
15.   Enforcement of Regulations and Monitoring
15.1 To improve the water supply and sanitation sector
management, operation and maintenance, effective legal
and regulatory framework that will allow enforcement
of regulation need to be created. The existing
regulatory and monitoring framework rests within the
MoWR. The regions are also responsible for regulating
and monitoring, within their respective area, and
supposed to report to the central government.
15.2 Policies, guidelines and directives so far developed
for the enforcement of regulations include:
-     Water Resource Utilisation Proclamation
(92/1994).  This is the            Ily instituted
" s,



ANNEX 1
Page 16 of 17
instrument for the development, management and
utilisation of the       water resource of the
country;
-     guidelines for the establishing of water
committees which is meant to involve communities
in all aspects of water supply activities;
-     directives issued with respect to drilling for
organisations involved in drilling, construction
and rehabilitation of boreholes and related
works;
-     Basic Principles and Guidelines for Urban Water
Tariff Study has been recently approved by the
government. The regions will be implementors of
the policy; and
-     a draft irrigation policy has been prepared, but
it has not been finalised. This policy requires
to be finalised and its implementation should
follow.
16.   Investment Planning
16.1  Meeting targets for providing communities with safe
water and the formulation of a step-by-step approach
to achieve this aim is considered a priority.
Specific and detailed plans will be adopted on water
supply services suited to specific conditions focusing
on the interests of the most disadvantaged
communities. According to the plan of action for the
period 1993-1999 programme, prepared in August 1992,
national population coverage of 35% for rural and 95%
for urban water supply and 12% and 70% rural and
urban sanitation respectively will be achieved by the
end of the decade.
16.2  To improve the existing water supply service level and
coverage, the techniques of investment planning need
to be reviewed taking into account the new structural
set-up of the country as well as the New Economic
Policy. The existing investment planning processes
are composed of four main components:
-     identification of projects and programmes;
-     project determination, selection and funding;
-     determination of financial resources; and
-     budgeting and programming.
16.3  The broad investment planning process in the sector
begins with development strategy of the country
focusing on exploration, survey, evaluation of water
resources, and analysis of water use demand. Within
the framework of the sector objectives and priorities,
funds for projects are derived from the following
sources:
-     external loans and grants;
-     government budget;
-     NGOs; and
-     community contribution.
16.4  Apart from the MoWR the investment planning involves
the following Ministries/agencies:
-     the Ministry of Economic Development and
Cooperation (MEDaC) (for a_pcasal and approval
0~~~~2
gp.-  G0v  , %;~~~~~'Z
X             ;~~~~~~~~'C' 



ANNEX 1
Page 17 of 17
of plan budgets);
-     the Ministry of Finance (for the indication of
overall financial resources); and
-     the Regional Bureaus prepare budgets and plan
for projects and programmes within their
respective area.
16.5 The major selection criteria for water supply
projects/programmes are the following:
-     number of beneficiaries;
-     strong development potential in respect to its
administrative functions;
production, distribution and commercial
activities,;
-     consideration of equity among regions; and
-     lack of major assistance from other donors or
NGOs.
17.   Donor Coordination
17.1  The existing coordination among the many government
agencies, bilateral, multilateral and NGO's operating
in the water supply and sanitation sector is not up to
the desired level. This is a reflection of the past
tendency to work in isolation. Their policies,
objectives and strategies need to be focused and
coordinated to the better performance of the sector.
In this regards, the MoWR, which is responsible to
register and approve donor projects and programmes,
particularly NGOs, need to take further steps to
coordinate overall activities. Such an approach will
help to standardise the large number of types and
models of imported and donated equipment. It will
also avoid duplication of inputs and encourage thrust
in support of the national programme. Hence, as a
policy development, there is a need to create a strong
mechanism of policy coordination at the Ministry
level, to work closely with all government agencies,
donors and the Regional Administrative Offices. Such
an approach will not only facilitate smooth
implementation of programmes and projects funded by
donors, but will also help for equitable distribution
of foreign assistance to the different regions.
17.2 Sector assistance coordination initiation meetina.
inviting donors and NGOs. would be oraanised by the
MoWR. in order to exchanae information on assistance
activities and to work on the modalities of future
coordination mecbanism.  The agenda for this initial
meeting will be presentation of brief reports by the
participants on their activities, participants'
interest in coordination, issues to be discussed in
the future forum, modalities of future forum (timing,
venue, financing, secretariat, budget & assistance),
etc.
- ';.I -
L~ s



I. URBAN WATER SUPPLY SERVICES 8Y REGION
Naeefr  fPoulton  Wate                                    Nur nul ae   imber of ConneciFons  PulcTp  ariff (irrM 
REGION     No.      Town       1993/94   Srodeuction Cosmption  Domestic  OhrsToa Fuc otuc   Private   Public  GradB
________     --~~~~~---  (EM                  IIIM)          AM       Connection              t __~Ji ionin g   Connection  Tap  (Statuis
4    A liamata      124 80   _Spring                                 _  _   __  _   __ _  _ __ _    __ _  _
3_ A___wa    _       20857B-H + Sp.    80834         32849       -200-  300    500       9          ______       2.50 
5 Axum           26800.00 Bore hole                       ___                ________3_
REGION 1      2 Endaselassie      23109                                            ___
7   FHurnera        20532                                 3__ _ _            ____ _ _               _ _ _ _
(TIGRAY       8   Korem           15918    4_ _     _ _                       _  _  _ _            _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _     _ _
9 Mekele            92036 Bore hole   724160       470704       3446 __       3446           ___14       1.00   2.00 
10 Michew           26103 __94170                   65919 ________   _    ___ _3__
1 1 Ramma            14214  __ _ _    _  _ _     _ _  _ _     _  _      _ _1-                       _  _ _  _  _ _    _  _
1 2 She-raro         14216  _ _       _  _ _    _ _  _ _         _    j__ _L_  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _  __  _   __   _ _  _  _ _
___________   ~13  Wukro         22680  Bore hole  __ _ _    _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _    _ _    _  _  _ _  _    _  _ _           _ _
SW    TOT          -__    _  _      34234=      ~                 _   _  _  _   _I                                     _   _      _  
1 Assaia            988____            62000       58822                  1236 4   _25 ____    4____
(AFAR)       3 Dubti        j 14737 Bore hole                                                   12           6 _____        4_
___________   ~4   Mille          7000  Boe  hole __ _  _                       -  _ _     _ _    _  _  _ _      _  _ _  _
SLJBTOTAL        4~                    78                        _  _  _ _    _  _ _     _ __           _     _  _    _  _  _
1 Addis Zemen       19446 Bore hole    23688        23588        227    46    273      7                     ____ _1_00  _
2      v e                       2 L  140  6___4_ _                    __                          __ __ __   _____  __
3 Bahidr Dar        8i2691 -La-ke+ MR   423394     423394      -3275   885   3860      2 ____  _____    0 ____
4  ati            14957 Bore hole    80000        70000        451 _99    550    12 ____  _____    1.00 ___
5icea -    ~ 15000 Bore hole    21473           19444        163    53    216       5       2___     1.25__    1.25  4__
6  urre           25075   Sjg-63635               58422    ~ 43    47         90    10o 3__            1.00   .00
7 Chaanij           1205.4 Bore hole    78871       57898        247    84    331    1 1 _____  _____  _____  4__
8 Dabat             18958                                                                 ___    ___                  __
9 D~~~gla ~~15997 Bore hole    231              30           5     7       3      1__________  
10   Deba1k          19448                                 __  _  _     _ _  _ _  _ _  _             _  _  _
11 Debre Eirhan     38559   Sprig      225780       134436     2-0-15   141   2156    1 1                 0__75_0__75_3
12 Debre Markos     60068 Bore hole   355841       159942       2444I  220   2664      31 ~ 2             1.00   1.00    2
13DebreSina         1694   S  n         12316253                2601   27    287-   10 ______  _____4
14 Debre Tabor      24882 Bore hole    190541        17565       202183         285     2       10        1.00   1.00    4
REGION 3      15 Debrework         12701    B.H       21451        19041         87    161   103      9 __ -1.25   1.25    -
16 Dejen       ~~~~13560 Bore hole    27650    247239    90    329                 7                 1.00 ____    1.00  4__
(AMHiARA)    17Dessie            103888  BH+Spr.   500000        46500        36    495  3-5957   -16         ~ -  ___0_50
18Ep esson          9548 Bor~ehole    13160   ~13160              4    50      54      5                 1__25__1__25
19 Fenote Selamn    19358 __fi~ng       25096        25096       271    61    332       6                 1.00 1____4___
20 Gondia           1040-54 Bore hole   262206 -    626          2667   568   3235    49 _________            ________
21 Haike             12506 Bore hole    29986        29986   ~         70-   62    132  8 ___1.00   1.00                -
221 Karakore         12424 Bore hole     98121        9812                              7                 1.25   1 . ___  _____
23 Kobo}      ~      20434 Bore hole   1150001       90000 _      29 131    420         7    ________   1______3
24 Koladiba          18644 Bore hole    14372        14302   -     41    25      66     5                 1.00__    1.00  4___
25 Kombolcha )yl     23814 Bore hole   110000       100000        5261  131    657    14                  1    ___0_0_75  _3
26 Lalublea          15150 Bore hole_____
27 MoUt-a    -       16581 Bore hole    38636      ~32871         1441   41    185    10           r      1.25   1.25    4
-28 NefasMewcha       29269 Bore hole    23366 -      233~66       219    59    278    1 4 ______________
29 Sekota            18095 Bore hole___
30 Shoa Robit        14005 Bore hole    63372        38868         2      7      49    10                  .    10
31 Werota            14810 Bore hole    41160        41160         491   39      88    1 0                1.~00   1.00    4
_____________  32 Woldia -23674 Bore hole    90200               8500           6 ~ 1861   755    1 1           ________       0 
r L TOTAL   __     L~       ~     861442~            _  _ _ _  _ _  _          ~     _  _ _         _  _ _  _  _    _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _



Ser.    Name of  {Population  Water    Average Annual Water   Number of Connections  IPublicLTap      Tarwif (Bir/
REGION  No.  Town      ~~~~1993/94   Source  Prodluction Consumption  Domestic  Others T oa   uc   tFn     nat    Pbic
(~~~~~~~Estimate)                   M3)        (M3)    Connection *     j___ tioni  I tionincg  Connection  Tap
1 AddisAl-em        15185  ___                                                      __1.00   1.00
2 Agaro-            28313  Bore_hole4    601i00    _40342        ~227  -170 39         22                0.75   0.75
3 Alem Tena         17600
4 AJemaya           18848    Lake____________ ___
5 AsebeTeferi       17116   Sprinig      73088       71755        649   168   817    1 1  ___0.75   0.75
6 Assela            55408 -Spring                    27402 -     1513   353184~   17 ____               0.50   0.50
7 Bakko             16335   Spring       26233       22236         67    381  105       6                1.00   1.00
*8 Bedelle          10542    River       29668       28996        262    841  346 -18  --1.00   1.00
9Bedessa           14750 __prn~g        164         164_       _24       1    222      6                1.00   1.00
10 Debrezeit         43504  Bore hole   858684       418044       360    395  4001    34___1.00   1.00
1 11 Deder           123 Spring           35588       35588         99   110   209    1 7 __              1.00   1.50
12 Dembidollo        20284  Bore hole    31680        20656 __2.96    30   326    14  __                  1.00   1.00
13 Dodola            12176    River       31680       20656        192   103   291,   11 ____1.00   1.00-
14 Fltche            37501   Spring      167844       66516        74 154   8681   14                     0.50   0.50
15Gebreguracha      13574                      _____              _
1 6Geddo             14723                         ___    ____
17 Ghion             25365    River      115182       99216        562   196   758    17       _          1.00   1.00
18, Ohlmbi           19763   Spring       15532       13340        294    38   332   -                    1.25   1.25
191 Ginchi           14723  Bore hole                 17528  _    103    1 3   116       7 __             10    10
201 Gnnir            12968   River        -           49466        245    81   326    10 ____             1.25   1.25
2-1 Goba             34649    River                   62867  _      83    58  _141       8                1.__0___ 0O  1.-25
REGION   4   22   Gore             11200                       ____ ___    ____ __     ___    ______
23 Hagere Hiwot      26143    River      107508       90300        797   198   9951   15 _100 10
(OROMIYA)    24 Ha eremariam       17016  Bore hole                 34490        107    70   177       6 ___            1.00   1.25
25 Hima              17502   Spin         24876       24424        194    1 4   208      7  __            10 1.00
26 Holeta Genet      21511  Bore hole    17451        14256        360    30   390    13 __      _1.00   1.00
27 Jimma             92033 Bore hole   225048        191704        941213  2167    18a                    0.50   0.50-
28 Kbme   t          20601  Bore hole                 41122        491   153   664    10 ____              00   1.25
29  Koee15004               _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
30    Umugenet         88 1   _ __ _  _  __ _ _   __ _ _ __  _ _ _
31 Meki              165    oeoe          748         60300        24-4  -99  _343_                        .0      0
32 Metehara          189Bo~re_hole      731886        28-23-6-    -129  -1 13 2427            -            00     00-
33, Mettu            1884M7   Rie         092         992375   145   5201   20                 _          10 1.00
34 Mojjo             21041  Bore hole,   93152        89760        523   154   677    16  -               iO   0.75
35 Moyale             5177 Bore hole    172586____                            _____
36 Nazreth          115109 Bore hole  1-593960      1555932       5712   811  6523    23   ___0.50.  0 50
37   Ned]  ..o ..    14025                       _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
38 Negele Arsi      -19761  Borhl   _7436             43188        389   121   510       50.5                    .7
39 Negele Borena     17173  Bore hole                 61056        549    30   579    1 7                 1.25   1.25
40, Nekempt          43493    River                  128318        713   431  1144    1 1        -.0 1.00 -_
41 Robe (Arsi)       14038 ___    ___                                                                     1.00   1.25
42 Roe(a~le)         17040    River   ____            3~8616       387    98   485    12           _     _1 00o -1.25'
43 Sebetta           14379   Sprin       141324       85200        638    67   705   _5,              __0.50Q  -0.5-0
44 Shambu            16806                ______    __
45 Shashemene        47123    River   _____          157570        970   344  1314    19 ____1_0_0 F125
46  Sie   _  _ _     14868                        _   _  _    _ _  _ _
47Tirisae Birhan    230186032                       128724 ___         ____   _                         05 0.5
48 Welenchhl         17605  Borehole    105300        84936        173    84   257       9                 75   0.7
9935__       __ EFwehol__                                                             10.7   0.75
49Zuwa ~              95BrhLe   -94900_              83220 _      129 ___ 29.]L___                       .0 07
[E,b=T_________J -            -.--                        -     _---- .  I                              _______-____-



Ser.    Narneof  IPopulationf Water    Averag  nnual Water   Number of Connections       Pubic T        Tarfff (Bir
REGION     No.      Town        1993194   Source  JProduction IConsumption  Domestic  Others I Total  Func-  otFn    Private   Public  Grade
_____________ ___ _______ ___  Estimate)          Ml___   __ _ I     Connection       L       tioning ____Connection  Taps (Status)
1 Degehabur    ~~3249 ____j-2.50   2.501  -
REGION 5       2 Gode               30001           -                                                               ___                 3
(SOMALI-)     3 A jfi3498  Borhole  _606644                       22833        1546   19      1 715   -   ~ 171          1 00   1.001  2
__________   ~~4 Kiebridahar      11412 ___    ___--                                   ___                __            1.25-
S W  TOTAL   1 ~4 1               526421                                  _  _  _   _  _ I]           Z  7_          _ _  _
REGION 6       1 j6ssossa                        -       -          157841          ] ________                           2.50]  2.50    -
(BENISHEANGUL)   2 1Begi              78031____           172           -    ___ 1                                               _____
S WJ   TOTAL      2~  __ _ __  _      163671           ------__   T  _I          ~     _   _               7  _ _ _                       _ _
'1 Alaba Kulito      12743 Borehole  _____           65028 -      4411   63    54         41[     5        1.00___
2Aletawondo       30784 Borehole      43044        31969        278,  144    422    181.00                          4__
3Aba Minch        32174   Spring  -498802        3j62-653      1345   302   1647    22                  1.00   1.25  2__
Awassa           547       ie        036         840392       3161   281 -3442    27 ____1.00   1.25                  2
tBsong            19036  B-oreh-ole   12386        12386   -     79-  94    13         9          -~1.00   1.00        4
6 Butajirra         19595  Borehole    46619         40920        106    56     162      8                1.00   1.00    3
88.00   7 Chencha           14314  ________
SEPRA        B Dilla              49765   River       813078     175351       1001   202   1203_      7                 1.00   1.25   3
9 Feleg Nwa         -11604  Borehole    17952        17952  __            23 03--_
(7-11)       lOGidole             21004                                    ___
1 1 Hagere Selam     16512                     _____                                                                    __
1 2 Hlosaena         22884   River      186032      128724        7-78   2121   990    12                  1.00   1.00    3
1 3 Jinka            13529  Borehole      6323        3836          3    _llj    1 4    1 3               1.50   1.50    -
1 4 Leku             17975  Borehole    24-158       24158      _61  _20          81      9                1.00   1.25    -
15 Mizan Teferi       9344  Borehole     15844       14846          1 0    30     40    1 7                1.75   1.75    4
1 6 Top               7399, Spring       12824        9864          21    34      55    8a___              1.75   1.75    -
17 Welayta           38833   Spring     210914      148028        892   210   1102    23                   0.75   1.25    3
18 Welkite           15185  Borehole    52560        36792                    __         11                     ___       3
19 Yabllo            13950  Borehole     34398       34398         86 __45    131         91.25, 1-.25    4
20  Yirg heffe__     18890  _ _ _ _    _ _ _ __                           _    _  _                            I _  __    4
____________  21 Yir alem         24147   River      149003 __   073__ 89              8} 953    23,____-               1.00]  1 .2    3
SIB   TOTAL   ~21  __ _ _ _ _   464243   _ _  _ _1_                                    _       I-
__GAM_EL_A_  ~1Gam83161   Rie                            104886      1048661__            671   128j    41 ___              1.00j  1.o1 4
REGION 13                      1                                                                                                __
DIR  I   [i~~~Harar             93795f  Lake__  11269296       5294471    5930 **_ 3       6168JL____1                0.50]  0.50[   1
G'rcMsional  1 Dire Dewa       1480331 Bore holel 2532000     1871681       _4822   3731  51951   171 ___              .00.50 i  1
GRANDTOTAL  [129    13198816[            250920131   1203764~011                                _ __ ____I
Water Production: Volume of water produoed or delivered into the network.      ___________________
Water Consumption: Volume of water used by the customers.                      Where full information is not available for water
Number of Connections : Number of Customiers                                   production or consumption, the same figure
*: Include induistrial /commercial establishm-ents,                         is taken for both. [production = consumption]
*:Private &commercial
**:Industrial & govemnmental                                                                                                         O
M3: Cubic Meter                                                                                                                       (
SEPRA: South Ethiopia Peopke's Regional Administration



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MNISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES (MOWR)
I     MThe Ministry of Water Resources will have the following  duties and
responsibilities:
1.    Devises methodologies and sets conditions for the rational distribution and
usage of waters that cross or border more than one regions.
2.    Prepares Laws for the protection and usage of Water Resource.
I
3.    Gives permission for and regulates Water Work activities and the use of
the likes water bodies mentioned in paragraph (1).
4.    Makes studies on water tariff policies and when approved, charges for the
likes of water bodies mentioned in paragraph (1) on Water-bulk basis.
5.    Makes studies on the use of trans-boundary rivers and when approved
follows up their implementation.
6.    Prepares plans for the proper utilization of water resources for
development and when approved controls their implementations.
7.    Gives support to Regions regarding water resources development when
ever required.
8.    Based on Laws, signs international agreements regarding trans-boundary
rivers.
9.    In collaboration with concerned bodies sets water quality standard for
various uses.
10.    Controls if Meteorological services are properly rendered.
2.    Orfanizational structure of the Ministry
2.1   Heads of the Ministry
The Ministry of Water Resources is made to be headed by a Minister and a
Vice Minister for the voluminous and complexity of works and relative



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
emphasis given to the sector. Under the Office of the Minister, it will have
a senior economist to head studies, planning, development and expansion
works and a Chief engineer for services and controL
For the successful accomplishment of the sector's duties and
responsibilities, the following together with other support services and
departments (like the supplies and equipment, Administration and Finance,
Women's affairs, Public Relations and Information, Management and
Training, Legal and Audit) have been organized under the Ministry.
2.2   Planning and Projects Department
It will prepare country's water resources policy and strategy; coordinate
with relevant government offices and various Departments of the Ministry
to prepare the Federal Water Code. It will prepare an integrated short,
medium and long term plan for the water sector. Besides it will follow up
implementation, evaluate and prepare socio-economic studies for vital
projects and conduct studies on water tariff policy.
The Department prepares and provides to the Federal Government,
Regional Governments and investors as required detail of projects that
were covered by the Master Plan Studies.
2.3   Basins Development Studies Department
Studies and prepare country's Basin master plan, identify projects that
could be implemented with in Basins, conduct feasibility studies and realize
that the Master plan studies take the nation's water resources, natural
resources, land and socio-economic features into account.
2.4   Trans-boundary Rivers Study Department
Conduct studies on trans-boundary rivers, realize that the benefit from such
rivers are secured and are in line with the international water use principles,
national integrity and advantages.
2.5   Design Department
Conduct survey and design of various water works that are to GE
undertaken by the Federal Government; control and follow-up works of
foreign consultants. The Department monitor and find out remedies for
any Environmental impact of designed construction worse associated with
prepared designs.  It provides technical and professional support for
irrigation works to Regional Administrators.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
2.6   Contract Administration Department
Develop cost estimate for water works of the Federal Government;
prepares specification and contract agreements; prepares equipment,
material, financial and manpower requirements for projects implementation;
prepares tender documents; monitors if construction works and equipment
installation are as per agreement. The department negotiates in cases of
price changes on the course of implementation. Develops and implements
water works studies and design standards.
2.7   Water Rights Administration and Water Utilization Control Department
Devises methodologies and sets conditions for the rational distribution and
usage of waters that cross or boarder more than one regions; Follow up
their implementation as approved. Gives permission for and regulars water
works activities and the use of the above types of water bodies; follows up
water tariff implementation; controls the bulk use of water; collects fees;
controls and monitors the safety of damn, and irrigation structures;
cooperate with relevant parties to conduct studies and research for the
improvement of water management methodologies.
2.8   Plans methodology for expansion of water supply & sewerage services in
the country. Studies and presents for decision, water quality standards for
various uses and sameness of different sewers; follows up and monitors
their practicality as approved; generates relevant policies for sanitation and
sewage disposal; plans implementation strategies; provides technical
support and professional advises for regional administration water supply
and sewerage service offices.
2.9   An Autonomous organization to be structured under the Ministry
Though the National Meteorological Service Agency provides services for
various governmental offices; viewed from its high integration to the water
sector, the technical features and the relation of working patterns to similar
international and continental organizations is decided to be organized under
the Ministry of while its management autonomy is maintained within itself.
It is however, understood that there is close interconnection (coordination)
between Water Resources Registration and Information Management
Department of the Ministry and the Agency; their future integration if
accepted can be structured and be renamed as Hydra-Meteorology Service
Agency and the detail is to be seen in the future.



Ministry of Water Resource
Organizational Chart
Minister
Planning and Project                             ~~~~~~~~~~Management    Public Relation       Administration       Supplies and        Wmen's Affair
Department          Audit Service        Legal Service         and Training           and Information       and Financ            EquipentDpartment
Library and
Documentation
Service
Computer and
Geo-Information        Laboratory
Service              Service
Hydrology       River Basin    ll    Boundary      lDlslgContract                                    Water Right and  W| er S-.:,,ply and
Hydrology           Master Plan          Rivers Study              Design            Administration    Uilizaton Pmcess and    Sewvs.ag Service
Department        Study Departrnent       Departnt                                     Department        Contro Department       Dcp;;,tnent
National
Methodological
Services Agency
SE



ANNEX4
Page 1 of 7
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF ADDIS ABABA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
(AWSA)
AWSA will be the executing agency for the AWSA sub-components of the
Project: technical assistance for implementation of Organizational Management Change
and Management Information System
Establishment. AWSA's origin goes back to the Water Supply Administration,
the predecessor of AWSA, which was created in 1964 under the Municipality of Addis
Ababa. AWSA took over the Water Supply Administration by Order No. 68 in 1971, as
an autonomous public authority. AWSA did not have any reporting obligation to higher
authorities of the sector, including the Water Resource Commission.
AWSA's legal environment is being modified since the Regional Administrations
were established under the Transitional Government of Ethiopia in 1993. The newly
established Region 14 Administration has replaced the Addis Ababa municipality
government. Region 14 Administtation has officially proclaimed the re-establishment of
AWSA to redefine AWSA's power and duties. AWSA's major responsibilities to be
stipulated in the forthcoming proclamation are to:
(a)   supply adequate safe water for household consumption and other domestic
uses, sanitation of Sstreets and disposal of sewage, protection against fire
and other forms of combustion, industrial and commercial uses, and public
parks and similar services;
(b)   provide waste water and sludge disposal services; and
(c)   maintain water service facilities, safeguard surface and underground water
from undue exploitation and prevent its contamination.
AWSA is now under the supervision of a new Board of Directors. The current
members of the Board of Directors include: the Chairman of Region 14 Administration
(Chairman of the Board), an official from the Prime Minister's Office, another three
officials from Region 14 Administration, two officials from Oromia Regional
Administration, the General Manager of AWSA, a vice minister from MWUD and an
official from Ministry of Finance. The decision-making by the Board of Directors is still
slow since the members of the Board have been highly involved in other activities.



ANNEX4
Page 2 of 7
Organization: Under the Board of Directors, the General Manager is the chief
executive of the organization. There are four main departments; Technical Services,
Operations, Finance and Administration.  It also has six service units; Planning,
Programming and Budget, Organization & Methods and Manpower Development,
Computer Information Services, Internal Audit, Public Relation and Legal Services.
AWSA has its head office in downtown Addis Ababa, and five branch and one sub-
branch offices to support field operations throughout the Authority's serving area. The
sub-branch office is located in Akaki, where growing industries and population are
expected. The current organizational structure is as shown below.



THE ADDIS ABABA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
The Current Organization Structure
Board
General Manager
D.G. Manager
Secretariate
Planning. Programmig                         _         ntemal Audin
and Budget Office
Organkzation & Methods andP
Manpower Development
Computer Seicee                                     L   Src
Tehia Deprtmen                                                       Financial Department |           Operation Department |      |Administrative Department|
I   I   |                                                          |        _l                       j  ~~~~~~~       ~    ~~~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water       j
Engineering     Water Services     Sewerage              Mechanical Elect                  Property &             Accounting                    Laboratory       Personnel    General Serice
Division         Division     Services Divisio               Serv. Div.                Supply Division            Division                                          Ion
Deig &   Treatment         Opratios          Electrical   Gaae eviePucasn
Plant           Stin           Shops Branch        Branvch              ScinOtssc
Legedadi          Customer       Electrical and     had. Vehicle         Property     Elnico
TesetiPatent     CnSnection       Mechanical       Maintenance            Contrnl       xecindu         Section
Plant      Sectionm         Services          SectionSeto
Water &         Reservoirs.       Systems                             Major                Strs         Rvne           Cost Acct.
Sewerage    ~and Pump        Maintenance         Welding           Repair                            R ne 1 
Saworator         Scionp           Section                    Section            Section                  Section        Secti'on              Recruitment &   Employees      Pronel
Constructon       Large Lne                            Me             Tols & Parsi                                                                  Section       Section |eeien
and MaFt.          Service                            Repair           and Store
Sttston       |  Station   0             ,       |   Shop              Section
2  Vehiclead |                                    SWater         Sewage        Finance
SevcsServices                Services
Driver Pool                                       Sectin |Section               Section
In reality this Is simply a one-man office.
Soure: The Organiation & Methods and Manpower Development Service, AWSA.                                                                                                                            ON
-I



ANNEX4
Page 4 of 7
Human Resources: Although AWSA has relatively well qualified personnel,
compared to other sector institutions, there is an imbalance between the required skills
and available human resources. As of March 1994, AWSA's total number of permanent
employees was 1,371, and in addition, 108 are working on contract bases. Out of 1,371
permanent employees, four percent are above BA/B.Sc. level, some thirty percent are
above grade 12. The details of the numbers of employees by department and unit and
their educational/professional level are presented in Attachment 1.
Mainstream Service Process: AWSA's mainline business process in providing
water services to customers begins by deploying water main pipes. From there, the
process involves connecting water from main pipes to customers and performing cyclical
billing and collection, and ends by disconnecting pipes. AWSA's departments and
service units are taking part in performing the whole process. Once the construction of
main pipes is completed by the Technical Department, branch offices of the Operation
Department become primarily responsible for connecting and disconnecting water to
customers. For continuing customers, branch offices, the Finance Department and
Computer Information Services (CIS) jointly perform their work in billing and collection
in a two-month cycle. For the sewerage service, there is no billing and collection cycle
because currently no fees are required for sewerage usage. The Technical Department is
in charge of the construction and maintenance of necessary pumps, water reservoirs and
treatment plants to sustain infrastructure for the mainline customer services.
Service Capacity; The present water production is about 125,000 m3/day. The
number of water connections (including public taps) is about 130,000, of which about
900 are major customers. It is estimated that unaccounted-for-water amounts to more
than 30% of water production and about two-thirds of that is attributed to physical losses
in the system. Efforts are under way to reduce the losses with gradual rehabilitation of
the system. At present, AWSA has a small sewerage network system serving only a
limited part of the city's center. There are only about 1,300 connections to the sewerage
system because the initial sewerage connection fees are very high and the public is
unaware of the sewerage system. As a result, only about 10% of the sewerage treatment
capacity is being used. Because of the low sewerage flows, the sewers must occasionally
be flushed to avoid clogging. Instead of connecting to the sewerage system, many
residents use septic tanks or pit latrines, and AWSA is responsible for providing them
with tank emptying services.
Capacity Development Plansi In order to meet the growing demand for water in
Addis Ababa, AWSA has been implementing and preparing a number of projects. Under
the on-going Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project, expansion of water
supply system in Akaki has been being undertaken, including construction of gravity
transmission main with a bulk meter, storage reservoir, distribution network and auxiliary
buildings. The project cost is estimated at US$4.5 million. An emergency interim project
to increase the water supply to Addis Ababa in a short term will be undertaken shortly.
The project will consist of construction of Dire Dam (US$24 million) and drilling of



ANNEX4
Page 5 of 7
ground water in Akaki (US$27 million) and is to be financed by TGE. For the waste
water management, AWSA will soon initiate a first phase of a waste water management
project. The project will consist of increase of house connection, extension of sewers,
construction of wastewater treatment plants, civil works and procurement of tankers for
sludge collection, and sludge treatment and disposal schemes and plant. The project cost
is estimated at some US$85 million and is to be financed by EU and TGE. The Addis
Ababa Water Supply Stage IIIA Project (AWSIIIP) is being designed to significantly
expand the water supply capacity to Addis Ababa. The IIIA Project includes: i) the
construction of Gerbi dam and Sibilu dam; ii) the establishment and augmentation of
transmission lines and distribution network; and iii) the abstraction of ground water from
Akaki area. The total capital cost of the project is estimated at US$450 million.
Institutional Capacity: AWSA's overall institutional capacity, in the areas of
operational fixed assets, organizational structure, management and labor, manual
procedures, human resource development and computer information systems, has to be
improved in order to meet growing customers' demand, improve quality of services and
carry out future large-scale projects. As for underinvestment in operational fixed assets,
the malfunctioning water meters and very old water pipes , which cause an extremely
high level of unaccounted-for-water, has to be replaced. An acute shortage of operational
vehicles and computer terminals of branch offices have to be alleviated. In terms of
organizational structure, AWSA's highly centralized organizational structure has to be
restructured because the divisions performing the mainline business process do not
receive high priority and workers and middle managers are unable to respond to customer
needs and expectations in timely manner due to lack of appropriate authority. The
number of organizational layers between management at the top and workers at the
bottom has to be reduced to expedite decision-making. Certain responsibilities, which are
currently allocated to inappropriate units, should be reassigned to appropriate units.
Inadequate document management causes significant fluctuation of productivity
accompanied by personnel changes and difficulty in converting manually prepared data
into computer systems databases. AWSA has to develop better human resources
planning and management system. There is significant imbalance between the required
skills and the existing skills of the employees. Training programs are not necessarily
available for all the professional streams .  The lack of performance indicators,
transparent promotion criteria and incentive schemes is affecting morale of the work
force.
MIS Despite continuing efforts by Computer Information Service (CIS)
personnel to improve computing capacity of the mainframe computer system, AWSA's
computer systems have been extremely unpopular among user departments due to the
persistent problems in the functions of application software and the limited systems
development capacity. A for t4e functions of the application software, due to poor
communication between CIS and the end-users, the functions of application software is
unsatisfactory to the users, created distrust of computer system outputs among users. The
knowledge of functions of applicAtion software has been kept within CIS and no manuals
or training programs has been developed to make end-users understand the application



ANNEX4
Page 6 of 7
functions. Primary examples are delays in billing and collection and closing of AWSA's
accounts. In terms of the limited system development capacity, an appropriate system
maintenance is not possible since there is no documentation on the existing application
software for systems analysts or programmers to support their systems maintenance and
there is not enough communication between the systems analysts and software
programmers.
For personal computers LAN, AWSA's recently installed eight personal
computers have been underutilized. Some of them are occasionally used for computer
games only. There is no incentives for end-users to use them for business purposes
because of a lack of user training and very limited software support. Now CIS has
developed an ambitious plan to build a LAN among these PCs and the mainframe, along
with the introduction of a fourtht generation language to its application systems
development. Although CIS is willing to learn new technologies, it is not yet fully
confident of operating decentralized systems and employing computer network
technology, which is not yet common in Ethiopia.
AWSA Financial Performance: AWSA is financially defunct. AWSA has not
been able to cover its operations and maintenance expenses mainly due to the low water
tariff (ETBO.5 per cubic meter), which has not been revised for 43 years. AWSA's
revenues were stagnating at around ETB1 7 million between FY88/89 and FY90/91 due to
the unrevised tariffs and lack of significant capacity improvement of water supply. Its
operating expenses increased from ETB25 million in FY88/89 to ETB32 million in
FY90/91, which resulted in increasing net deficits for the three year period from ETB8.4
million in FY88/89 to ETB14.2 million in FY90/91. Its accumulated deficit amounted to
ETB45 millon at the end of FY90/91. With the devaluation of Ethiopian Birr in 1992
from ETB 2.07/US$ to ETB5.OO/US$, AWSA's operating and maintenance expenses,
such as fuel and chemicals, are expected to have increased significantly and AWSA's
financial performance should have deteriorated further.
Its capital structure is unsound: its operations and maintenance activities and
capital investments are financed by contributions from the government, grants from
donors and concessional long-term loans. AWSA has no debt service capability and has
been subsidized by the government in meeting its debts service obligations. Without
contributions and grants, AWSA incurred capital deficit of ETB28 million at the end of
FY90/91. The outstanding balance of long-term loans at end-FY90/91 was some 9 times
of the state capital. More than sixty percent of the creditors' balance at end-FY90/9 1 was
interest  charges   payable   which   AWSA   owes  to  the   government.



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
AWSA's cash position is also precarious.  Due to inefficient collection, it
accunulated high outstanding balance of account receivable and has not met payment
obligations. Its outstanding balance of account receivable at end-FY90/91 was ETB12
million , or over 8 months equivalent of the water sales related revenues. Its financial
charges on loans have been covered by the government on behalf of AWSA. AWSA' s
audited financial statements between FY1988/89 and FY1993/94 are available in the
project file.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACTIVITIES OF DONORS
A number of donors and NGOs are active in the water supply and sanitation sector
in Ethiopia. Below is a brief description of the activities of the major donors:
African Development Bank: ADB, through its soft-loan arm, the African
Development Fund (ADF), is a major donor to the urban water supply sector. Its
objectives are to assist in the formulation of sectoral policies, priorities and objectives, to
provide necessary funding and to attract financial resources from other sources required
for sector expansion. ADF has provided loans for eleven urban water supplies and for
sewerage in Addis Ababa, in addition to grants for studies.
Belgian Survival Fund: The Fund is providing grant finds for a major
sanitation/water supply program being implemented by the Ministry of Health (MoH) in
various parts of the country. The program is being executed by IFAD in conjunction with
UNICEF, WHO and UNDP.
Canadian International Development Agency: CIDA has provided support to
the sector since 1977, concentrating its assistance in the southern part of the country
through the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programme. This project was initially
oriented towards construction of new rural water supply schemes; over the years the focus
has changed to capacity building, with particular emphasis on operation and maintenance.
European Union: The EU has provided grant funding through the European
Development Fund for a water supply program in the west and northwest, covering
rehabilitation, development of rural water supplies, and strengthening regional capacity
(with a major emphasis on sustainability). The EU also funded construction materials and
technical assistance for the Addis Ababa Water Supply Project, Stage ILA, which involved
the expansion of treatment plants, transmission lines, pumping stations and reservoirs. EU
plans to finance Water Improvement Project in Addis Ababa.
Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA):  In 1994, after a
delay of several years due to lack of security in the project area, FINNIDA began
implementing a four-year, US$6 million Rural Water Supply Program in Amhara Region.
Using simple technology and a participatory approach, the program focuses on spring
protection and hand dug wells, with some irrigation and sanitation, as well as community
education activities and preparation of watershed management plans.  Finland also
supports a number of Finnish church NGOs with small water projects.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
Germany: Germany has assisted rural water supplies through GTZ, and urban
supplies through KfW, with the major focus in rural areas. Since 1979, GTZ has
supported a major training program, largely at the Arba Minch Water Technology Institute
(AMWTI). GTZ is also supporting the Central Region Rural Water Supply Programme
which concentrates on rehabilitating existing supplies and strengthening operation and
maintenance. KfW has assisted the urban water supply sector since the mid- 1970s. It is
currently preparing a project to fund rehabilitation of eight urban water supplies.
Italy: Italy has concentrated its assistance on the implementation of a rural water
supply construction program in the Central Region, together with investments in
operations and maintenance. It has also provided a major loan for the Addis Ababa Water
Supply Stage IIB.
Japan: Japan helped establish the Water Well Drilling Agency (WWDA) in the
early 1970s, with a loan from OECF. Since then, through the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency (JICA), it has provided technical assistance to WWDA, WSSA, and
AAWSA. JICA is currently undertaking a feasibility study of potential groundwater
resources in eleven towns; the study will include formulation of a groundwater
development plan and a maintenance plan for the water supply systems.
The Netherlands: The Netherlands intend to provide assistance for preparation of
a national water resource master plan; establishment of environmental database and
monitoring system; and human resource development.
Swedish International Development Authority: SIDA has provided support
to the sector since 1976, concentrating mainly on the Rural Water Supply Programme in
Eastern Region.  Through construction and rehabilitation, the Programme aims to
strengthen and develop the capacity of the Water Resource Commission to plan,
implement, maintain and operate the water supply system. SIDA has provided technical
assistance and equipment to AMWTI, as well as funding for research and development
programs, and has in addition contributed to the sector through support to NGOs.
United Nations Capital Development Fund: UNCDF has provided technical
assistance and water supply projects to the Central Region, as well as equipment to
AMWTI. It is currently preparing a project in Amhara Region which will include a
comnmnity development fund to finance sub-projects, including water supply projects.
United Nations Development Programme: UNDP has provided support to
AMWTI by funding lecturers, consultants, training and equipment. In conjunction with
the World Bank, UNDP assisted WSSA to strengthen its management capacity and
subsequent decentralization. UNDP was also involved in the execution of an Italian-
funded program which provided water supplies around Jijiga during 1986-90.
United Nations Children's Fund: UNICEF has assisted the sector since 1975
and is a key donor for rural water supply. Initially involved solely in drilling wells,



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
activities expanded into developing shallow wells, spring protection, laying distribution
systems and rehabilitation of defunct schemes; since the late 1980s, simpler and lower-cost
technologies have been introduced in selected areas. The current UNICEF program
(1994-99) is a nationwide water and sanitation program to assist the Government in
fiormulting appropriate sector policies and guidelines, and their dissemination and
implementation by the regions.
World Health Organization: WHO's main assistance to the sector has been
institutional support for community water supply and sanitation programs under the MoH.



ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
1. LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES FOR AWSA
Description               No. -__-Unit Cost 1/                |Total Cost 1/
fin US$ equivalent)
1. Pickup trucks,                             _
double cabin,
4 w/drive                 17              27,500              467,500 __      -
2. 10-ton Truck                                                     ____
with crane                 1              62,500               62,500
3. Spare parts                                                 _______-
for existing fleet                       Allow          __   200,000 ___
4. Radio Communications
and Computer Equipment                    Allow               280,000
5. Misc. Tools and                                       _
Workshop Equipment                       Allow               385,000
6. Water Meters
25 mm.                 250                  40               10,000 _-
40 mm.                 100                  100              10,000
50 mm.                  50                 200               10,000
TOTAL                                              1,425,000 ____
1/ Base cost, net of taxes and duties     .



Pap 2 of 2
2. LIST OF VEHICLES, OFFICE TECHNOLOGY AND WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT FOR THE REGIONS
Description                  No.               Unit Cost 1/        | Total Cost 1/
(in US$ equivalent)
1. Pickup trucks,                                       _                _
double cabin,                                 __      _            _     _
4 w/drive
(1 for each town)        25                  27,500                   687,500
2. Land Vehicles,                             I
4 w/drive
(2 for each region)      18                  35,000,                  630,000
3. 7-ton Trucks            _
(1 for each region)       9                  45,000                   405,000
4. Office Equipment
(computers, printers,
copiers, fax machines,          _          _      _ 
etc.) for each region     9    r          Allow 20,000                180,000
5. Miscellaneous tools
and equipment for
repair/maintenance
teams, for each region    9               Allow 75,000                675,000
6. Well Maintenance Rigs      13                 500,000                 6,500,000
7. Mobile Workshops           14                 100,000                 1,400,000
TOTAL                                           _____        10,477,500
1/ Base cost, net of taxes and duties                                            - I



ANNEX 7
ETMIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year               Annual            Cumulative         Cumulative %
FY96
Jun-96                 1.25                  1.25                3.5
FY97
Sep-96                 1.25                 2.5                  7.0
Dec-96                 1.5                  4.0                 11.2
Mar-97                 2.0                  6.0                 16.8
Jun-97                 2.5                  8.5                 23.8
FY98
Sep-97                 2.5                   11.0               30.8
Dec-97                 3.0                   14.0               39.2
Mar-98                 3.2                   17.2               48.1
Jun-98                 3.2                  20.4                57.1
FY99
Sep-98                 3.2                  23.6                66.1
Dec-98                 3.0                  26.6                74.4
Mar-99                 2.3                  28.9                80.9
Jun-99                 1.8                  30.7                85.9
FYOO
Sep-99                 1.5                  32.2                90.1
Dec-99                 1.3                  33.5                93.8
Mar-00                 1.2                  34.7                97.1
Jun-00                 1.03                 35.73              100.0
Project Completion Date: December 31, 1999
Project Closing Date: June 30, 2000



ANNEX $
ETHIOPIA: Water Supply Development and Rehabilitadon Project                                              Page 1 of2
Monitoring Indicators
RehiOnW lindicaton Pinr                                               i           superviion            Target
I  tr-S<li           s m    Ux_          I
(a) S    orvic Coverag indicators aR ugionTo,ns) u   r  o tn
0t) % of ivopul Worn sanvd bY    foter sul athd svsrom tIrs
Piped Connu ctions Townj
iublic tape w     treated
Vendors!                                                                   !          !          !
Other
ii) % ot Podulacon served by sanitaton facilities
Ppied discharge                                                                                  r
On W ite solutions (pit lairci l_
(bl Rehabilieton Prof r s st   b
6i) % of rehabilitation compbletd Ifeg,on lowns)  
(iii) % of o pier quipment and  Teh.clls purchsed (region to.na)
iii) % ot Civil Works and building t or regional wer headuarters_                  _
Oiii) % 0 ot ofice eqtuipment and vehiclas purChased                                             _ _
itc Water  ruality (Region Towns)ne_
V9 % of w ter sulDp)ed rlet meeTs WFtO standards        !
ivi % of wasue water treated                                                       _          _/_
Id) Seaici Quality IRegion Townsl                       _
hi) WaGer production Isr DeCe/danu
i0 Water consumption aliser ptcs/dayl
(iii) Average hours at sorv,ce De, darv
(ivi Number of System breakeda-,=                                       = 
duration
ilAccountseces   berne
(a) Efficncy of Operations Magin To* n sl
|   ti Unaccounted for water                               
iilcontrabutper  to caper cofnextiendtrs
Iviiil Sae  etcosis/operating  crsts   cos
liv) O b M unit cast of wator Droduged iffirrim3l)
(fl FinHncial Retiou  Region Townst I
51 Growth in wgttr (avenues                            !_                                    _       .
if Return on net fixoec assets
piil Current ration
teliv) Account recsi_biaireveues
'lb O ersvi  ro-T0
tvilccntribution to caDItaI eaPenditures=
(vii) A~eage tariff/Av.rage incremental cost
(g) Human Resource Development (Ragion H ada. Saflai                     0    
9i) StUlfing/lt connSctionsa
professional
technicians
laborers
liil Tuining lTotal s,Istaffl                                                                        ______=  _
professiconal
technicians
laborers
(ivi Training lstaffl)
with upgraded skills in accounting, O&M. personnel
of mid-level manegers wrth upgraded skills
of regional department heads with uporeded skiPs on
Iv) Qualitative Indicators
key menagement positions are filled                 I________
adequate capacity for projecxt prpar. and implem,               ____|__j
new management systems and procedures in place
(hI Customer Contact and Public Relations IReoion Towrs                                                I
(i) Number of meters installed/number of connectons     j
liil Number of repairs/number of connections
hii Number of complaints/number of connections
lin) Number of applications for new connections/number of connections
IvI Aver4ge leng.h of wait for new connections
(vi) Consumer satisfaction
Des fno               LpateTa a
Mar-SeB           tie  T- VeY
if Socio-aconomic Impact Indicators IRegion Towns)
(i Infent mortality rate
Init Under-S mortalty rate
Oiii) Burden of disease by cause
Prevalence Rates lper thousandl
- Diarrhoea                                        I           I_I_I_I
- G4stro Enteritis
Worms in Ihe Stool
- Other Oiarrhoee and Abdominal Conditions
liv) Time spent colleciing mater
_   l Water Bill as a percentage cl "o,,sehold income
(vi) Amort spent ea water from vendors                   _         I _                         I          I



ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA: Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation Project                              Page 2 of 2
Monitoring Indicators
Town Indicators                                               Baseline               Supervision            Target
Dec-95             (Seni-Annual Update)
ais Service Coverage Indicators
(ii % of Population served by water supply system
Piped connections
Public taps
Vendors
Other
/ii0 % of Population served by sanitation facilities
Piped discharge
On site solutions (pit latrines)
Others
ib) Rehabilitation Progress
lil % of rehabilitation completed
(iii % of office equipment and vehicles purchased
(c] Water Quality
li) % of water supplied that meets WHO standards
lii) % of waste water treated
(dl Service Quality
1i0 Water production (liter p.c./day)
liil Water consumption (liter p.c./day)
(iii) Average hours of service per day
(iv) Number of system breakdown/durantion/cause
(el Efficiency of Operations
1i Unaccounted for water
(iii Staff per 100 water connections
(iiii Staff costs/operating costs
(iv) 0 & M unit cost of water produced IBirr/m3)
tf) Financial Ratios
{i) Growth in water revenues
liii Return on net fixed assets
liii) Current ratio
(ivi Account receivable/revenues
(vl Debt service ratio
(vii Contribution to capital expenditures
(viil Average tariff/Average incremental cost
Igl Human Resource Development
(il Staffing/10 connections
professional
technicians
laborers
(iii Turnover/Total Staff
professional
technicians
laborers
(iii) Training (# hours/#staff)
professional
technicians
laborers
Ih) Customer Contact and Public Relations
(i} Number of meters installed/number of connections
(i) Number of repairs/number of connections
(iii0 Number of complaints/number of connections
(viv Number of applications for new connections/number of connections
Ivl Average length of wait for new connections
Baseline              Update                 Target
Mar-96            lEvery Two Yea,rs
lil Socio-economic Impact Indicators
(ii Infant mortality rate from water-borne diseases
(iil Under-5 mortality rate from water-borne diseases
0iil Burden of disease by cause
Prevalence Rates (per thousand)
- Diarrhoea
- Gastro Enteritis
- Worms in the Stool
- Other Diarrhoea and Abdominal Conditions
fivl Time spent collecting water
lvi Water Bill as a percentage of household income



ANNEX 9
ETHIOPIA                                   Page 1 of 2
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITAION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Plan
Fiscal Year   Approximate Date           Activities       jExpected Skills                  Ss
FY95196            Jun-96       Project Launch Workshop    Financial Analyst                       16
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Institutional Development Specialist
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
__________________________   Econom ist
Procurement Specialist
_____________   _________________                          Environmental Specialist
FY96/97            Oct-96       Supervision                Financial Analyst                       12
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Institutional Development Specialist
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist
Feb-97      Technical Supervision      Financial Analyst                        4
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Environmental Specialist
May-97      Supervision                Financial Analyst                       12
___________                                               Water and Sanitation Engineer
Institutional Development Specialist
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
_Economist
FY97198            Sep-97       Mid-term Review Mission    Financial Analyst                       24
l__________                                  Water and Sanitation Engineer
__________________________ Institutional Development Specialist
I______________________ =Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist
.__________________    Procurement Specialist
Environmental Specialist
Feb-98      Technical Supervision      Financial Analyst                        6
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Environmental Specialist
Jun-98      Supervision                Financial Analyst                       12
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Institutional Development Specialist
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist
FY98/99            Oct-98       Supervision                Financial Analyst                       12
|_____________  |_____________Water and  Sanitation  Engineer
._____________ |Institutional Development Specialist
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist
Feb-99      Technical Supervision      Financial Analyst                        4
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Environmental Specialist
May-99      Supervision                Financial Analyst                        12
___________  ________________  Water and  Sanitation  Engineer
________________________l Institutional Development Specialist |__



ANNEX 9
ETHIOPIA                                 Page 2 of 2
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITAION PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist
FY9912000          Oct-99      Supervision                Financial Analyst                       12
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Institutional Development Specialist
__________  ____Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist
Feb-00      Completion Mission        Financial Analyst                       10
Water and Sanitation Engineer
Rural Water Supply Specialist
Operations Analyst
Economist



ANNEX 10
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
AWSA NEW TARIFFS (AS OF MAY 1995)
A.    Meter Rent (Fixed Charge)
Meter Size                  Monthly Charge
Inch                            (Birr)
0.5                             1.00
0.75                            5.00
1.00                           15.00
1.25                           20.00
1.50                           30.00
2.00                           51.00
3.00                          103.00
4.00                          156.00
5.00                          262.00
B.    Volume Charge
Bimonthly Consumption Birr/M3
Range(M3)                Water        Sewerage           Total
0-15                      0.50          0.00              0.50
16-40                     0.75          0.08              0.83
Above 40                  1.50          0.17              1.67
Public Fountain Operators       0.50           0.00             0.50
C.    Sludge Disposal Fee
Birr 49 Per Trip. (The Existing Rate will continue for all customers during the Short-
term)



ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
AWSA Income Statements   (ETB '000)
.______         FY ending July 8:          FY1988  FY1989  FY1990  FY1991   FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996  FY1997  FY1998  FY1999  FY2000
._______         I-------(Audited)------           ----       ------ ------ ---                   -        (Projected )---_-_-_
Revenues
Water                                  13,031   13,531   13,080   14,039   14,741   15,478   16,252   17,064   46,926   47,396   47,870   52,657   53,183
Meter Rent                               584      593      656      683      700      720      740      760    2,280    2,303    2,326    2,349    2,373
Connection Fee                           898    1,525    1,704    1,450    1,600    1,650    1,700    1,750    1,785    1,803    1,821    1,839    1,857
Sewerage Service                         479      614      463      419      470      479      489      499      504      509      514 -    519      524
Other Revenue                           1,038    1,046     712      749    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Total Revenue                          16,030   17,309   16,614   17,339   18,511   19,327   20,181   21,073   52,495   53,010   53,530   58,364   58.937
Operating Expenses I                 _
Salaries and related expenses           5,755    6,166    6,619    6,768    7,242    7,966    8,763    9,201    9,385    9,479    9,573    9,669    9,766
Store issues and other expenses         3,758    4,157    5,121    4,665    5,132    6,158|   6,466    6,789    6,925    6,994    7,064    7,1351   7,206
Utilities and other services            2,428    2,319    2,508    2,953    3,544    4,2521   4,465    4.688    4,829    4,877    4.926    4,975    5,025
Depreciation     I                      8,346    8,464    7,980    7,834    8,016    8,416]   8,837    9,279    9,307    9,400    9,494    9,589    9.685
Amortization of deferred expenditure     202        0        0        0        0        0]       0        0 o  _     _         _        _
Total Operating Expenses   _           20,489   21,106   22,228   22,020   23,933   26,793   28,531   29,957   30,446   30,750   31,058   31,368   31,682
I]           I      i_iI_i [                             (         5
Oratn Mamin                                    (4,459)  (3,797)  (5,614)  (4,681)  (5,422)  (7,466)j  (8,350)  (8,884)  22,050   22,260   22,473 j 26,996   27,256
Other Expenses   |                                                                  -                                   -                                -______i
|Interest and bank charges             3,497    3,203    3,366    3,689    4,000    4,200    4,300    4,400    4,400    4.400    4,400    4,400    4,400
|Auditfee I       I                       18       18       20       30       35       40       45       45       45       45       45       45       45
|Miscellaneous                           64      384      154      126      150      170      180      190       190      190      190      190      190
Compensation/Forex losses               137        0        0    3,318        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Provision for doubfful debts            644      680      647    1,623    1,500    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,500    1,600    1,600
Provision for obsolescence               65      360    1,172      710      800      800      900      900      900      900      900      900       900
Total Otherexpenses                    4,424    4,645    5,358    9,496    6,485    6,810    7,025    7,135    7,135    7,135    7,135    7,135    7.135
I~-                                       --                                  =       S .       -        -                                   =                          
Notincomie(Deflcit) for the Yer                (8,883)1  (8.442)  (10.972)  (14.176)  (11.907)F (14,276)  (15.375)  (16,019)  14,915]  15,125   15,338 J 19,861   20,121
Accumulated Surplus/(Deficit) Brought Forward  (7.489)  (12,807) (21,566) (30,658)  (44,837)  (56,745)  (71,020) (86,395) (102,415) (87,500)  (72,375)  (57,038)1 (37,177)
PriorYearAdjustment       I        1            3,565     (318)   1,880       (3)       0 [      0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Accumubted Surplus(Deflclit) Carried Forward    X (12,807)T (21,566)1 (30,658) (44,837)1 (56,745)] (71,020)] (86,395) (102,415)  (87,500)1 (72,375)  (57,038)  (37,177)1 (17,056)



ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
AWSA Balance Sheet          (ETB '000) I___
~FY ending July 8:   ____FY1988__fY1989   FY1990   FY1991  IFY1992  1FY1993  IFY1994   FY1995   FY199    FY199    FY1998   FY1999   FY2000
__                _       ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~IF-------- ----(Audited) ---------  ----(Estimated) ----- -------   --------- (P riojec-,te d)---------
Current Assets               ___I-                                                                                             ___
_____  ~Cash and Bank_Balance  -4,3                     2,51 477552                   ,61 570j           ,61      5,~819  -5-,877 T     3g~    5,995 F 6,05-5     6,1
_____  fStock   _______ ______    ~~~~~~~9,7221  10,185 1  11,042 1   8, 61   8-,67741   9,-5411 T 9,6 37    9 -,733   - ,8 3 1  9,9 29  1-0,026 F1 11,031 F  11,141
____  Debtors-          ____    ___         16j326'14,149 110,0341  10,446    10,550 410,656 1  10,762    10,8701 10,9791 11,089 F 11,199   1131                11,425
!___  Total Current Assets        ____1 30,781 1 26.4851  25.7531  24,298 1 24,872   25,901 126,160   26,422 ;2686f295                       7,2r237    2861
Fixed   Assets__        _ _ F _ _               __  _  _1_  _  _     _  _    _  _ _           -i _ _  _   _  _ _        _ _I--                           r           _  _
Fixed Asets and Deferred_Epniue      1218,287  221,221  222,702  225,940  230,459   3,6    3,7    4,6   295                    5,4    259,534  311,44-1  373,729
____Work in Progress    r                     599    51,342    65,733   76,108   80,674   85,515  90,646    96,084 ,101 850  107961   11448   154,491  208,564
____(Depreciation)____1 (45,561-) (5-4,122-) (61,843)  -(69.778-) -(71,442)   7,7)   (74.329)  (75,815)! (77,331)t (78,878)1 8,5)  (96,547) (115,856)
Total Fixed Assets   ____208,675  218,441  226,592  232,271  239,691  247,712  256.087  264,834  273,974  283,528  293,517  369,386  466,437
Total Assets                         L -         239,456  24492    2534 256,569  264,563  273,613  282,247  2156300,660  310,481  320,7393978 4518
Current Liabilities-                                                                                                  _____207 846
____Creditors  _____22,794   23,237   26,2981  26,406 127,198   27,470 127,745   28,022   25,780   23,718   21,821    20_05                                       _1_46
____Current Portion of LT Debts               1,613     1,794    2153       2,660    2.686    2,713    2,740    2,768    2,906      3,052    3,204      3,364    3,533
_____ _______       ~~~~24,407   25.031    28,450   29,066    29,885   30,183   30,485   30,790   28,687   26,770   25,025   23,439   22,002
Long-Termn Liabilities       ___97,037  108,648  134,860  147,788  162,549  181 .081  200,114  219,977  211,514  201,555  191,319  242,842  313,886
CapitalAccount                                                                                         -- 
____State Capital                            16,514    16,514   16,514   16,514    16,514   16,514   16.514   16,514    16,514   16.514   16,514   16,514  -16,514
____Contnbution and Gants                   114,305  116,300   103,179  108,039  112,360   116.855  121,529  126,390  131,446  138,018  144,919  1I 52,165   159,773
____Accumulated Deficit                     (12,807)  (21,566)  (30,658)  (44,837)  (56,745)  (71,020)  (86,395) (102,415)  (87,500)  (72,375)  (57,038)  (37,177)1 (17,056)1
____Total                                   118,013  111,247   89,035   79,715   7210        62,349   51,6-48   40,489   60,460   82,15710,9          1352 1921
iTotal Liabilitties and Equity  -         -      239,456  244,9268  252,345  256,569  2,53 273,6913  2822R 47    9,510,6                1,8       2,3       9,8      9,1



ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
AWSA Cash Flow Statements J(ETB '000)                     I                                                         I                             I                  I_ _
IFYendingJuly8:    _         FY1988   FY1989 _FY1990   FY1991   FY1992  IFY1993   FY1994  IFY1995  IFY1996   FY1997   FY1998   FY1999   FY2000
_        I         I                  ------------- -------- (Audited)---    I-    ------  (Estlmated)--    --- ---           - --    (Projected )-            -------
Funds Generated from Operations        ______
Net Income/(Deficit)                     (      _8 _ (8,,442)  (10972)  (14,176)  (11,907)  (14,276)  (15,375)  (16,01  4,915   15,125  15          19,861    20,121
Plus: Depreciations & amort. of FX losses  8,346    8,464     7,980    7,634    8,016    8,416    8,837       9,279    9,307    9,400       9,494     9,5891   9,685
Total _  L                                (537)      22    (2,992)   (6,542)   (3,891)   (5,859)   (6,538)   (6,740)  24,222    24,525    24,832   29,450    29,805
Other Source of Funds                                             -
Increase in Grants           _1_    _                                  4,995   (13,12 10)  _4 64,494 4        4,86       ,    _6_ 1,901    7, 246              7608
_______ Increase in Long-term Debts    _______ __ _   11,611    26,212    12,928  14,71 14,761    18,532   19,033    19,8631  (8463)l  (9,959)  (10,236)   51,5234  71,044
Total                  __    _                     13,606    13,092    17,788  19,083   23,026   23,707    24,724    (3.407)1  (3,387)   (3,335)'  58,769 1 78,652
Total Source of Funds                                        1 _   {  13,628 1 10,100    11,245 b15,191    17,167   17,169    17,9841  20,814    1,138   21,497   88,219  108,458
U_soS Funds                 I    t   ____-             -         27
Acquisition of Fixed Assets   I__  I             18,21 15,872   13,613             9       9,0450     9 832  1  ,234   10,656 1  11,100   11,567    91,960  116,360
_ Increase in Non-cash Working Capital  I_      I  (2,338)   (6,677)1  (2,985)    (301)      674      (100)    (101)    2,3091   2,125     1,955    2,700    1,661
Total                             __5,990                     9,195    10,629    8,784  -10,124      9,732    10,133  112,966    13,225135221   94,660  118,021
Change in Cash Positon     T         t       _  !     _      (2,3621     905       617     6,407 l    7,043 t7,43       7,85     7,848 t   7,913_ T 7,975    (6,4421   (9,564)
Change in Cash Position (Excluding Grants)                   (4,356)   14,025    (4,243)    2,086 , 2,549     2,763|  2,990       2,793     1,341     1,074 (13,688)   72)
AWSA Financial Indicators             r                                              
t                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
Methodology
Cost/benefit analysis was carried out for the physical investments and for the
capacity building component which will have a direct impact on the efficiency of the water
supply operations. The economic rate of return was calculated by estimating the net
benefits from the project. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant prices (base =
December 1994) and include physical contingencies. The prices used in the analysis are
net of duties and taxes. The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the physical
investments of the project (including part of the capacity building, see explanation below)
is 18.4 percent (see Table 1). The net present value of this component at a 12 percent
discount rate is US$10.6 million. The benefit/cost ratio of this component is 1.27. The
following describes the assumptions and estimations made. 1
Project Beneficiaries and Demand Projection
The beneficiaries of the rehabilitation works and capacity building components will
be about 550,000 people who live in the 25 towns and about 8.2 million people who live
in other towns serviced by the Regional Governments in which rehabilitation works will be
carried out, maintenance equipment and capacity building will be provided. Demand for
water was projected taking into account an average consumption of 17 liters per capita
per day (Ipd) and an annual population growth of 3 percent.  Current average
consumption is approximately 7 lpd. Production is assumed to grow gradually, until
capacity of most systems is reached in the year 2005.
Project Benefits
Benefits from Increased Water Use and from Replaced Sources: The benefits
from the rehabilitation component of the project arise from the incremental quantity of
water supplied by the project. This incremental water could be used by the beneficiaries of
the project to replace previously used sources, e.g., water from vendors, and to increase
water consumption; we have not measured however, the benefits from water which
replaces water sold by vendors. But if we would add benefits from replacing vendors,
total benefits would be larger since from a survey carried out under a study undertaken
Shadow prices and exchange rates were not estimated since Ethiopia is undergoing a series of
macro-economics reforms which has reduced distortions. The exchange rate used is US$ = Birr
6.25.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
byt WSSA  and DEVECON2  and from  information provided by the Regional
Governments, consumers are paying from 5 ETB to 25 Birr per cubic meter of water. To
calculate the benefits from the increase in water consumption, we have estimated the
increase in revenues as a result of the project. This is a conservative estimate since these
revenues constitute a lower bound of the consumers' surplus. Using a tariff of ETB 2.5
and the projected consumption per capita, we have calculated the revenue streams with
and without project. This is what we call "private benefits" in Table 1. The NPV - of the
revenue streams without project is US$165.5 million and the one with project is US$196.9
million; therefore the incremental private benefit due to the project is US$31.5 million.
Health Benefits: Estimating project benefits taking into account water which
replaces previously used sources and increases consumption only captures private benefits
and does not take into account public health improvements. Most consumers' willingness
to pay for water may not include a willingness to pay for water due to health reasons since
most consumers might not filly take into account the relationship between clean water and
its effect on their health. Therefore, we have made a calculation of health benefits. The
estimate of health benefits includes savings from money spent on treatment of sickness and
lost income. To calculate the savings from money spent on treatment of water-borne
disease by age, average days of restricted activity and average spent on treatment of
disease.3 Lost income due to water-borne disease was calculated based on the number of
days of restricted activity for the economic active population, multiplied by the average
income per capita, assuming that 80 percent of their income is lost due to restricted
activity. In the case of the younger population and older population, since their
participation in income generation activities is smaller, only 20% of their per capita income
is supposed to be lost. This assumption is feasible given that adults might have to limit
their income generating activities to take care of sick children. The population of these
towns consequently lose about US$4 per capita per year due to water-borne diseases.
However, to avoid duplications and be on the conservative side, we have only included 50
percent of the estimated health benefits, namely, US$2 per capita. The present value of
the savings on health costs is estimated at US$18.0 million. This amount is calculated
finding the difference between the health costs with and without the Project. (see Table 1).
Project Costs
Project Costs and Least Cost Solution: Project costs include both investment
and recurrent costs. To carry out the economic analysis, investment costs were calculated
for the rehabilitation of the water supply facilities of the 25 towns which total US$11.4
million (net of duties and taxes, but including physical contingencies), or 23 percent of
2   WSSA and DEVECON, Five Towns Water and Sanitation Study, Phase I Report, Volume 1 - Gore,
1993.
3  Central Statistical Office, GOE, Report on the Rural Health Survey, Volume 2. Statistical Bulletin
No. 52.



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 5
total investment. The capacity building components, including studies, training, technical
assistance and institutional support (equipment and buildings), have also been included in
the project costs because they will have a positive impact on the supply of water. The
capacity building and institutional support activities which are aimed at the 25 project
towns have been included in flll amount, while the ones directed to regions have been
apportioned according to the number of towns under the project relative to the total
number of towns in the regions. These capacity building components total about US$13.3
million, bringing the total costs to US$ 24.7. Recurrent costs are estimated at about
US$2.9 million per year for the 25 towns and Regional Governments, increasing with the
increase in output.  All costs are calculated taldng into account the least cost of
rehabilitation and O&M, including physical contingencies. The NPV of the costs (both
investment and O&M) due to the Project is US$38.8 million



ANNEX 12
Table 1                                           ETHIOPIA                                               Page 4 of 5
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS
(US $ OOOs)
Fiscal   Without Project   l With Project        Incremental Incremental   O&M          Total   F   Total
Year    Private    Health    Private  iHealth    Benefits   Investment   Costsl Incremental Net Benefits
Benefits    Costs    BenefitS    Costs     DUe tO       DUe to     D1e to  | Costs DUe I  Due to
Project    Project    Project   to Project    Project
1996    18,435    17,043      18435j   17,0443           0       3,765       219        3,984 T    -3,984
1997    18,508    18,010      19,716  I17,2801       1,938      14,860       412       15,272       -13,334
1998    18,581    19,031      21,082    17,5361      3,996       4,560       907        5,466         -1,470
1999    18,655    20,111     21,895    18,167        5,184       1,484      1,030       2,515         2,669
2000    18,962    20,9899    22,7741   18,746        6,055           0      2,885-      2,885         3,170
2001    19,395    21,771      23,589   19,330 _      6,635           0      3,064       3,064         3,571
2002    19,900    22,513      24,444    19,912       7,146           0      3,253        3,253        3,892
2003    20,449    23,244      25,344   20,501        7,638           0      3,454        3,454        4,183
2004    21,031    23,981      26,292   21,103        8,139           0      3,668        3,668        4,471
2005    21,638    24,732      27,111    21,739       8,466    _      0      3,747        3,747        4,719
2006    22,267    25,502      27,924   22,396        8,763           0      3,803        3,803        4,961
2007    22,917    26,295      28,762   23,072        9,067           0      3,859        3,859        5,208
2008    23,588    27,111      29,625   23,768-       9,380           0      3,917        3,9171       5,463
2009    24,279    27,953      30,514   24,485        9,702           0      3,975        3,975         5,727
2010    24,991    28,821      31,429   25,224       10,035           0      4,034       4,034         6,001
2011    25,725    29,717      32,372   25.985       10,379           0      4,095        4,095        6,285
2012    26,481    30,641      33,343   26,768       10,736           0      4,156        4,156        6,580
2013    27,2591   31,595      34,343    27,576      11,104           0      4,217       4,217         6,887
2014    28,061    32,580      35,374   28,407       11,485           0      4,280       4,280         7,205
2015    28,886    33,596      36,435   29,264       11,880           0      4,344       4,344         7,536
2016    29,736    34,644      37,528    30,147      12,289           0      4,409       4,409         7,880
2017    30,612    35,727      38,654   31,056       12,712           0      4,474       4,474         8,238
2018    31,514    36,844      39,813   31,993       13,150           0      4,541       4,541         8,609
2019    32,443    37,998      41,008   32,959       13,604           0      4,608       4,608         8,995
2020    33,400    39,189      42,238   33,953       14,074           0      4,677       4,677         9,397
NPV         165,476   180,676    196,940  162,714        49,423      19,397    19,402        38,7991      10,624
ERR      I         I          I          I_I_I_I                                                   I      18.4%
B/C Ratio            _         _          _         _                                  ______1.27



ANN:EX 12
Table 2                                        ETHIOPIA                                           Page 5 of 5
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA FOR POJECT TOWNS
Region             Town         Population Existing   Current  Average   Average    Percent of Consumpti
Source    Tariff    Annual   Annual       Losses    per Capita
________________  _Birr/m3   Production Consumptio                          m3/year
m3        m3
Tigray (1)         Adigrat          23,279 borehole        0.09   236,520     185,564      21.5        8.0
______ __  Indasellasse  23,109 borehole    __ _       ___                        _
Maichew          26,103 borehole       0.50    94,170      65,919       30.0       2.5
Afar (2)           Asaita            9,818 borehole        1.25    62,000      58,822       5.1        6.0
Amhara (3)         Addis-Zemen       19,446 borehole       1.00    23,688      23,588       0.4        1.2
__   Fenote Selam    19,358 stream          1.00    25,096      25,096                  1.3
Dabat            18,958 borehole
Debark           19,446 stream
Koladiba         18,644 borehole       1.00    14,372      14,302        0.5       0.8
Oromia (4)         Dembidollo       20,284 borehole        1.00    31,680      20,656      34.8        1.0
Fitche           37,501 stream         0.50   167,844      66,516       60.4       1.8
Gebreguracha     13,574 riven
Holeta Genet     21,511 borehole       1.00    17,451      14,258       18.3       0.7
Kibre Mengist    20,601 borehole       1.00                41,122                  2.0
Sebeta           14,379 stream         0.50   141,324      85,200       39.7       5.9
Shambu           16,806 stream
Somali (5)         Degahabor         3,249 borehole        2.50
Benishangul (6)    Assosa            8,564 borehole        2.50    16,772      15,784       5.9        1.8
Kebridehar       11,412 borehole       1.25
South Ethiopia (7-11) Alaba Kulito   12,743 borehole       1.00
Butajira         19,595 borehole       1.00    46,619      40,920       12.2       2.1
Dilla            49,765 river          1.00                83,078                  1.7
Wolkite          15,185 borehole               52,560      36,792       30.0       2.4
Gambella (12)      Gambella          8,316 river           1.00               104,886                 12.6
Harari (13)        Harar            93,795 lake
Total/Average                      545,441                         71,546     882,503      39.0        2.7



ANNEX 13
Documents Available in Project File
1.   Development Plan of Urban Water Supply Schemes
2.   MOWR Human Resources
3.   Regional Governments
4.   Oromia NRDEPB Financial Management
5.   AWSA Human Resources
6.   Major River Basins in Ethiopia
7.   Description of Project Towns and Water Supply Schemes
8.   TOR for the National Project Coordinator
9.   Project Implementation Manual
10.   Regions' Capacity to Maintain Service Rights
11.   Description of Regional Administrations (as of December 1994)
12.   Terms of Reference for Studies under the Water Supply Sector Capacity
Development Studies
i)    Organization and Management Study
ii)    Financial Management Study
iii)   Urban Water Technical Management Study
iv)   Baseline Study
v)    Tariff and Asset Valuation Study
13.   Terms of Reference for MOWR Water Supply Regulatory Framework Study
14.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for AWSA - Organizational Change
Management and Management Information System
15.   Training proposal under Water Supply Sector Capacity Building Component
16.   Rural Water Supply Pilot Scheme Component
17.   Terms of Reference for the Feasibility and Engineering Study
18.   Detailed Cost Estimates
19.   Financial Status of Project Towns






MAP SECTION






34'               36;                38    /            40r                42                44                 46                 48
ETHIOPIA
WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
6    ERITREA                      KIL                                        Project Towns
- 16'                                       !      ERITREA                      St.4I                                                                            Ih'-
/                                                                      0    PROJECT TOWNS
0    SELECTED TOWNS
(                                                                        ^ 63   NATIONAL CAPITAL
|   /   ~-    \   __                                                 REGIONS (Unofficial 1994 boundories)
- 1 4'  SUDAN                              ADIGRAT                                                  -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(-4SU AG-RAY    0  INDASELLASSE                                         The State/Regfon names are per Article 47
.1  0     0                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the Consfitution of Ethiapao
DEBARK                 MEKELE
( GONDER  DABAT            0
o ADDIS    MAICHEW  AFAR                    >_.f                                  GULF OF
T ,2'                      /      KOLADIBA      9w/\EN                         ASAITA    /                                          ADEN                     12-
2           FENOTAN,HARA OT EIOUTI
BENSHANGJL  SELNA ~                                 0
DEBRE
t           .    ,  ~~MARKOS 
/0O                                'GEBREGU&ACHA A AO 
DEMBADOLA    SHAMBU           FITCHE0                         HARARO   0      A
DEMBIDOLO    0~~~~~~~~~~~ HOLETA~ (2                    HARAR           Jjg
NEKEMPTI  GENET 8         ADDIS                              Jijigc    '
GrMBELLJ'      -      METU              SEBETA       ABABA                                                   --
-R'   GAMBELLA 0                 WOLKITE D  BUTAJIRA ASSELA                                       0  D     A U                                          8
(*                               i(]kto                                            tX~~~~~~~~~~~~L~    DEGAHABOUR            .7
JIMAO          S/lao    Lze  -       ,-
KULITO      0
'Se bondoe  colPrs                AWASSA                                                                                 SOM/ / SALIA
The bon,,nr,drea cokrcs  .ARBA   .DILLA                                                                    KEBRIDEHAR
d1no-catfolnn, MINCH a/
6 other rtiformalfrrn shown                MINC      ktk.                                           .           0
0or th,s reap do  -1t                              AIs                                                                      /
-mply on the pc,rr or                              A
The Wodld Bnk G,roup,    \                                0
any sodomnnt on the leg,  ;
,fotns   of   ,,.y  terr,toIy,  _I   KIBRE
or Uscv endorse rerrr         I
5rr acceptan,c& -f sLuch                            MENGIST
ha rndl:s ,r        . us                                
ILOMETERS tl O 0  ;3) 15'0 20tt 250 300 350 400
C -t   /    ,           KENYA                                                                                       ---  ---t-l,-. -'                        ( t' 'tv 20 25.4~_
.r                                             ..                                                   ........... .. ,rI _  .... .... , _    20c_   2,0
KII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    I
UGA  35                      --                  Ci                II                                    48~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1









IMAGING
Report No:       14401 ET
Type: SAP



