Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2842 ET
                        Development Credit Agreement
           (Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 15, 1996
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2842 ET
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1996, between THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February
8, 1996, (the Policy Letter) from the Borrower describing its policies
and objectives designed to implement its water supply and sanitation
sector development program (the Program) and declaring its commitment to
the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project will be carried out by
the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to AWSA part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in AWSA Project Agreement of
even date between the Association and AWSA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Association or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
            import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge
            of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources;
      (b)   "AWSA" means the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
established and operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 10/1995 dated
May 18, 1995 of the Borrower;
      (c)   "Regional Governments" means the regional governments of the
Borrower's Regions of Tigray, Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Somali, Benshangul,
Southern Ethiopia People's Region, Gambella, Harar and Addis Ababa;
      (d)   "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual describing
the Project implementation arrangements, procedures and schedules,
adopted by the Borrower on February 8, 1996;
      (e)   "Project towns" means the towns listed in the Project
Implementation Manual;
      (f)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "AWSA Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and AWSA, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the AWSA Project Agreement; and
      (h)   "AWSA Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and AWSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A.3, B.2 and
C.3 of the Project, open and maintain a special deposit account (Special
Account A) and for the purposes of Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and C.2 of
the Project open and maintain a special deposit account (Special Account
B) both in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1,
2006, and ending January 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 2016, shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever:
            (i)   the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
                  determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
                  $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
                  years; and
            (ii)  the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
                  Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the
                  review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
                  of the Association and after due consideration by
                  them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
Page  4
                  modify the terms of repayment of installments under
                  paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay
                  twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
                  until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
                  repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
                  may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
                  or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
                  ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
                  with the Association on the principal amount of the
                  Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
                  provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
                  revision shall not change the grant element obtained
                  under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause AWSA to perform in accordance with the provisions set forth in
AWSA Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable AWSA to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1, and
C.2 of the Project, and cause AWSA to carry out Parts A.3, B.2, and C.3
of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, including the Project Implementa-
tion Manual.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make available, from the proceeds of the
Credit, an amount not to exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,200,000 to AWSA,
on a grant basis, under a grant agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and AWSA under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the AWSA Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend,
abrogate, or waive AWSA Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the
Project shall be carried out by AWSA pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the
AWSA Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) Not later than September 30, 1997, the Borrower
Page  5
shall carry out, jointly with AWSA and the Association, a comprehensive
review of the execution of the Project. Without limitation upon the
generality of the foregoing, the review shall, inter alia, cover the
implementation and management aspects of the Project including progress
made in the carrying out of the policy reforms envisaged under the
Program, the status and results of training, reporting, accounting and
audit performance, disbursement and procurement procedures and the
overall sustainability of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than thirty days prior to the review referred to
in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in
implementing the various components of the Project, and a draft action
plan containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
      (c)   The Borrower shall promptly thereafter, in collaboration
with AWSA: (i) prepare an action plan satisfactory to the Association
based on the recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review,
and (ii) adopt and implement said action plan for the remainder of the
Project implementation period.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, in respect of Parts A.1, A.2, B.1 and C. 2 of the Project
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Parts A.1, A.2, B.1 and C.2 of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account A for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account A was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
Page  6
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the level of
water tariffs levied by its Regional Governments in the Project Towns;
and (b) unless the Association agrees otherwise, the Borrower shall, by
not later than June 30, 1998, cause its respective Regional Governments
to establish water tariffs at a level that would at least allow each of
them to cover its water-related operations and maintenance expenses.
                               ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program or the Project, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out;
      (b)   AWSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the AWSA Project Agreement;
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that AWSA will be able to perform its obligations
under the AWSA Project Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
AWSA or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (e)   Proclamation No. 10/1995 dated May 18, 1995, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of AWSA to perform any of its
obligations under the AWSA Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the consultancy contracts for the capacity building studies
referred to in Part A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have been
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association terms of
reference acceptable to the Association for the preparation of the
monitoring indicators referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
Page  7
      (c)   the AWSA Grant Agreement has been duly executed by the
Borrower and AWSA.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the AWSA Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by AWSA and is legally binding upon AWSA in accordance with its
terms; and
      (b)   that the AWSA Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and AWSA, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and AWSA.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 1905
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
                                           Telex:
                                           21147
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                  By /s/ Berhane Gebre Christos
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ James W. Adams
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the Credit       % of
                        Allocated (Expressed in   Expenditures
    Categories              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Drilling works               280,000        100% of foreign
    and well construction                       expenditures
    under Part C.1 of
    the Project
(2) Goods                                       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
    (a) for Parts A.3, B. 2      900,000
        and C.3 of the Project
   (b)  for Parts A.1, A.2, B.1,
        C.1 and C.2 of the     9,500,000
        Project
(3) Consultants'                                100%
    services, and training
    (a) for Parts A.3, B.2     1,950,000
        and C.3 of the Project
    (b) for Parts A.1, A.2,    8,920,000
        B.1, C.1 and C.2 of
        the Project
(4) Refunding of                 170,000        Amounts due
    Project Preparation                         pursuant to Section
    Advance                                     2.02 (c) of this
                                                      Agreement
(5) Unallocated                2,280,000
                              __________
    TOTAL                     24,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower,
for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, and (b) consultants' services under contracts not
Page  9
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and $50,000 for
individual consultants.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) ensure long-term viability
of water supply and sanitation operations in line with the Borrower's
regionalization policies, and (ii) improve the health and productivity of
the population.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Capacity Building
1.    Capacity building in the water supply sector consisting of:
      (a)   the carrying out of studies for all Regional Governments
(except Addis Ababa) including: (i) an organizational management study to
assess and improve the organizational structure, the staffing and
incentive system in the sector, and the management information system;
(ii) a financial management study to facilitate investment planning and
financial management in the Regions, including improvement of revenue
collection and billing procedures and development of a sound accounting
system; (iii) an urban water technical management study to improve the
technical capability, design standards and operation and maintenance
(O&M) practices of zonal offices and water supply units of the Regions;
(iv) a baseline study in each Project town to establish a basis for
performance evaluation of the water supply operations in Project Towns
and their socio-economic impact; (v) an asset evaluation and tariff
study in each Project town to ensure the cost recovery of the water
supply utility operations in Project Towns; and (vi) a regulatory study
for MOWR to review existing regulations and propose a regulatory frame-
work conducive to the introduction of full cost recovery principles,
efficient supply operations in the regions and participation by the
private sector.
      (b)   Provision of technical advisory services to assist the
Regional Governments in carrying out the recommendations of the
organizational management study, the financial management study and the
urban water technical management study referred to in paragraph (a)
above.
      (c)   Training of personnel of the Water Resource Bureaus of the
Regional Governments and MOWR including: (i) training of grass-root
working level staff, mid-level management and top management of the
bureaus, departments, zonal offices, and water supply units; (ii)
training in general management and specific management skills; and (iii)
professional training including budget planning and preparation, legal
management, safety training, pollution control, operation and maintenance
of maintenance rigs, and accounting and auditing.
      (d)   Provision of equipment, maintenance rigs, mobile workshops
and vehicles to facilitate the capacity building of the Regional
Governments, including the acquisition of a vehicle for each water
supply unit in each Project town to facilitate the carrying out and
subsequent operations of the rehabilitated water supply schemes.
2.    (a)   The carrying out of studies to review the current practices
and institutional arrangements of rural water supply schemes among
different communities, regions and non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
and to prepare appropriate national/regional strategies to improve
operations.
      (b)   Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of
equipment for the establishment of a rural water supply forum for
exchange and dissemination of experiences among the Borrower, donors,
NGOs and communities.
Page  10
      (c)   Construction of rural water supply pilot schemes for testing
and application of detailed water supply strategies through the voluntary
efforts of partner members of the rural water supply forum referred to
in paragraph (b) above.
3.    (a)   Updating of the organizational and management study, the
management information study, and the tariff study which have been
carried out for AWSA.
      (b)   Training of personnel of AWSA including: (i) training of
grass-root working level staff, mid-level management and top management;
(ii) training in general management and specific management skills, and
(iii) professional training including budget planning and preparation,
legal management, safety training, pollution control and accounting and
auditing.
      (c)   Provision of technical advisory services to assist AWSA in
carrying out the recommendations of the organizational management, the
management information and the tariff studies referred to in paragraph
(a) above.
      (d)   Acquisition of water meters, vehicles and miscellaneous
equipment to assist AWSA in improving its maintenance and operational
capacity and implementing the new water and sewerage tariffs.
Part B:     Feasibility and Engineering Studies
1.    The carrying out of water schemes feasibility studies and pre-
paration of engineering designs for the rehabilitation of water supply
and sanitation schemes and for long-term investment planning for future
expansion of the urban water supply schemes in the Project towns,
including: (i) the carrying out of rehabilitation studies to identify
the immediate rehabilitation needs of water supply schemes in the Project
towns; and (ii) preparation of engineering designs and environmental
assessments for future expansion of water supply schemes in the Project
towns.
2.    Preparation of building works designs for the construction or
improvement of headquarters offices for the water supply operations in
Afar, Somali, Benshangul and Gambella Regions and for the branch offices
of AWSA.
Part C:     Physical Works
1.    Rehabilitation of the water supply schemes in all the Project towns.
2.    Construction or improvement of headquarters facilities for the
regional water supply headquarters in Afar, Somali, Benshangul and
Gambella Regions.
3.    Upgrading of AWSA's branch network including construction of six
new branch offices and six storage facilities for AWSA.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                             SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of "Section I of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
Page  11
1.     Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this part B:
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for office equipment, small
      water supply equipment and spare parts shall be grouped in bid
      packages estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
      Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
      territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Office equipment, water supply equipment and spare parts estimated
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.    Direct Contracting
      Spare parts for the rehabilitation and repair of existing
electrical and mechanical equipment under Part C.1 of the Project, which
are of a proprietary nature, may, with the Association's prior agreement,
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7(c) of the
Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of
said paragraph.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraph
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the consultants Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Page  12
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts, (ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                        Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain for the duration of the Project
implementation period the Steering Committee established pursuant to
MOWR's Notice of February 8, 1996 with composition and functions
acceptable to the Association. Under the supervision of the Steering
Committee, MOWR shall be responsible for the overall coordination and
implementation of the Project. The Borrower shall maintain for the
duration of the Project implementation period, a Project coordination
and monitoring unit with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, and which shall be headed by a Project Coordinator, whose
qualifications and experience shall be at all times satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    At the regional level, except in Addis Ababa, the Project will be
implemented by the Regional Governments Water Resource Development
Bureaus (RWRDB). Each RWRDB shall appoint a Regional Manager to be
responsible for the Project coordination and implementation of the
Project at the regional level. In each region, the Regional Manager
shall, by not later than June 30, 1996, be assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers, including an electrical/mechanical engineer, a
civil/water/ environment engineer, an accountant/ financial analyst, a
sociologist/extension worker and a personnel/administration officer.
3.    Regional Managers shall report to the Project Coordinator through
RWRDB. The Project coordination and monitoring unit within MOWR shall
coordinate and supervise all Project activities, including signing of
contracts on behalf of the Regional Governments. In Addis Ababa, the
Project will be implemented by AWSA.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, subject to such
modifications as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association from time to time.
5.    The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1996, furnish to
the Association, monitoring indicators, satisfactory to the Association,
to be achieved by the time of the review referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (2)
(a), and 3 (a) with respect to Special Account A, and Categories (1) (b),
(2) (b), and (3) (b) with respect to Special Account B set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  13
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of
the Project (Special Account A) and an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in
respect of the Special Account for Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and C.2
thereof (Special Account B), to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $500,000 in respect of the Special Account A and an amount equivalent
to $500,000 in respect of the Special Account B, until: (i) the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories (1)
(a), (2) (a), and (3) (a) plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions for Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,400,000, and (ii) in respect
of the Special Account B, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account allocated to Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for
Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and C.2 of the Project shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,400,000.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special
Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis
of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
                  the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the respective Special Account such amount
                  as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the respective Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other
Page  14
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified theBorrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories for the Special Account A and the Special
Account B, respectively, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3
of the Project, and Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and C.2 of the Project,
respectively, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation for the respective Special Account.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
for Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project, and Parts A.1, A.2, B.1,
C.1 and C.2 of the Project, respectively, shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  15
