Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2842 ET
                         Project Agreement
      (Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
             Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
                        Dated May 15, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2842 ET
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ADDIS ABABA WATER AND SEWERAGE
AUTHORITY (AWSA).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty four million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that AWSA agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in
this Agreement;
      (B)   by a grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and AWSA, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AWSA on the terms
and conditions set forth in the said grant agreement; and
      WHEREAS AWSA, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional term
has the following meaning:
      "fiscal year" means AWSA's fiscal year which starts July 8, and
ends July 7 of the next following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a)  AWSA declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and AWSA shall otherwise
agree, AWSA shall carry out Parts A.3. B.2 and C.3 of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Parts
A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. AWSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of this Agreement and Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) AWSA shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts
A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   AWSA shall: (i) take part in the review referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, (ii) thereafter,
collaborate with the Borrower for the preparation of the action plan
referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement,
and (iii) implement said action plan with due diligence and efficiency.
      (c)   AWSA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts
A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by AWSA of its obligations under this
Agreement.
      Section 2.05. AWSA shall duly perform all its obligations under
the AWSA Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, AWSA shall not take or concur in action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, or waiving the AWSA Grant Agreement or
any provision thereof.
      Section 2.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, AWSA shall:
            (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                  Association, and furnish to the Association not later
                  than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
                  later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
Page  3
                  the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to
                  ensure the continued achievement of the objectives
                  of Parts A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the  Project; and
            (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
                  exchange views with AWSA on said plan.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of AWSA
      Section 3.01. AWSA shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineer-
ing practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. AWSA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
      Section 3.03. AWSA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) AWSA shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
      (b)   AWSA shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements
                   (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                   related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                   to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                   each such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
                   statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                   in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
             (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
      Section 4.02.  (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
AWSA shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on July 7, 1996, total revenues equivalent to not less than the
sum of: (i) its total operating expenses, and (ii) the amount by which
debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation.
      (b)   Before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, AWSA shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by AWSA and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year
and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its
completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that AWSA would not meet the
Page  4
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for AWSA's fiscal years covered
by such review, AWSA shall promptly take all necessary measures including
tariffs increase, in order to meet such requirement.
      (d)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                  operating revenues and net non-operating income;
            (ii)  The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
                  from all sources related to operations;
            (iii) The term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
                  ference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                        of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
                        referred to in paragraph (A) above;
            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
                  related to operations, including administration,
                  adequate maintenance, taxes and payment in lieu of
                  taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-
                  line basis at a rate of about 3% per annum of the
                  average current gross value of AWSA's fixed assets in
                  operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association,
                  but excluding interest and other charges on debt;
            (v)   The average current gross value of the AWSA's fixed
                  assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of
                  the sum of the gross value of AWSA's fixed assets in
                  operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal
                  year; and
            (vi)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments or principal and interest.
      Section 4.03. AWSA shall: (a) reduce its accounts receivable to: (i)
120 days by the end of its 1995/96 fiscal year, (ii) 90 days by the end of
its 1997/98 fiscal year, and (iii) 60 days by the end of its 1998/99 fiscal
year; and (b) not exceed 60 days thereafter.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AWSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                   shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify AWSA of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  5
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      For AWSA:
            Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
            P.O. Box 1505
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
                                           Telex:
                                           21427 ET AWSA
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of AWSA, or by AWSA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development
Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General Manager of AWSA
or such other person or persons as the General Manager shall designate in
writing, and AWSA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ James W. Adams
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                          ADDIS ABABA WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
                          By /s/ Berhane Gebre Christos
Page  6
                                         Authorized Representative
