                     Document of
                  The World Bank




                                                 Report No: 27539

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (PPFI-P9530 IDA-28420)

                        ON A

                LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                       TO THE

                      ETHIOPIA

                       FOR A

WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT




                  December 23, 2003

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                    Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
                                           Birr 1 = US$ 0.158 (at Appraisal)
                                           US$ 1 = Birr 8.575 (June 30, 2003))

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                         July 8 - July 7

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAWSA  Addis Ababa Water Supply And Sewerage Authority
CBM    Community Based Management
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate Of Return
ESRFP  Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation And Development Fund Project
GFDRE  Government Of The Democratic Federal Republic Of Ethiopia
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
M&E    Monitoring And Evaluation
MIS    Management Information System
MoWR   Federal Ministry Of Water Resources
MTR    Mid Term Review
NPV    Net Present Value
O&M    Operation And Maintenance
OTU    Outreach Training Unit
RWB    Regional Water Resources Bureau
RWSS   Rural Water Supply And Sanitation
SAR    Staff Appraisal Document
UWSS   Urban Water Supply And Sanitation
WSDRP  Water Supply Development And Rehabilitation Project
WSS    Water Supply And Sanitation



                                  Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                               Country Director     Ishac Diwan
                                 Sector Manager     Jaime Biderman
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Robert J. Roche

                                          ETHIOPIA
       WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8 Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                       29

Project ID: P000764                                                  Project Name: WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH
Team Leader: Robert J. Roche                                         TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH                                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9530; IDA-28420
   Country/Department: ETHIOPIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (75%); Sub-national government administration
                            (22%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to urban services for the
                            poor (P); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/01/1994                                     Effective: 05/15/1996                01/14/1997
     Appraisal: 09/30/1994                                         MTR: 09/30/1997                  05/30/1999
      Approval: 04/09/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Ethiopia/Ministry of Water Resources, AWSA; Regional
                                           governments of Tigray, Afar, Amahara, Oromia, Somali, Benshangul, SNNP and
                                           Harrar.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo and Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ishac Diwan                                    Francis Colaco and James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Stephen Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert J. Roche                                Takuya Kamata
ICR Primary Author:             Meike van Ginneken


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project as defined in the Staff Appraisal Document (SAR) was to ensure the longterm
viability of water supply and sanitation operations in line with the Government's regionalization policies and, in
the long run, improve the health and productivity of the population. These objectives would be met by providing
assistance for: (i) capacity building of the Regional Governments and water supply and sanitation agencies for
management of urban water supply and sanitation schemes and rural water supply operations; (ii) formulation of
policies to ensure long-term financial and managerial viability of water supply operations, establishment of
regulatory arrangements and sound investment planning by the Regional Governments and water supply agencies;
and (iii) short- and medium-term physical rehabilitation, augmentation and establishment of urban water supply
and sanitation schemes in war-affected and the most deficient regions.

3.2 Revised Objective:
At Mid Term Review in May 1999 the overall development objective and the project outputs were refined, based on
the new National Water Resources Management Policy. Providing "sustainable access to adequate and safe water
supply" was set as the development objective, with emphasis placed on sustaining those facilities that are already
constructed, through an overall demand-driven, community-based investment strategy.

The Mid Term Review also established four specific objectives:
Specific objective 1: improved water supply facilities in 25 towns
Specific objective 2: Improved water supply services in urban areas
Specific objective 3: Sustainable RWSS management systems/options selected
Specific objective 4: improving financial management of Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority

3.3 Original Components:
The Staff Appraisal Document identifies three main components, each consisting of several subcomponents:
A. Institutional Capacity Building
          (a) Water Supply Sector Capacity Buillding
          (b) Rural Water Supply Pilot Scheme
B. Feasibility and Engineering
          (a) Water and Sanitation Scheme Feasibility and Engineering Design
          (b) Building Work Design
C. Physical Works
          (a) Water and Sanitation Scheme Rehabilitation
          (b) Building Works

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were reformulated at the Mid Term Review to be consistent with the project objectives and
to more clearly specify the outputs:

25 Towns Rehabilitation and Expansion Component ­ Improved water supply facilities
          This component would contribute to improved water supply services in the 25 towns by (i) rehabilitating
          and expanding facilities to the 2005 demand primarily in the existing service area. (ii) design to 2020
          demand based on staged construction; and (iii) an improved planning based on community choice,
          financial viability and staged construction, not just technical criteria.

Capacity Building Component ­ Improved water supply services in urban areas
          The second component would contribute to improved water supply services through capacity building. A
          first subcomponent of this was targeted consultant support aimed at establishing autonomous oversight
          and professional operators, who are able to run the facilities efficiently, in 25 project towns. Also, a
          National Outreach Training Program would provide practical on-the-job training to improve (i) financial
          management and operation and maintenance (O&M) by urban water boards and water supply service
          units, and (ii) technical assistance and backup services by Regional and Zonal Water Resources Bureaus.



                                                          - 2 -

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component ­ Sustainable RWWS management systems/options selected
         This component would contribute to sustainable services in rural areas through community based
         management, local private sector support to communities, and local government participation.
         Demonstration projects in eleven Woredas in four regions would be used to refine implementation
         arrangements and to build capacity. Based on the principles established in the National Water Resources
         Management Policy - the project would assist four regions to prepare a water and sanitation investment
         strategy for rural communities and municipalities setting out the project cycle, funding/procurement
         mechanisms and appraisal criteria.

Addis Ababa Water Supply Component ­ Improving financial management
         This component would provide support to the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA)
         principally to improve its billing/collection and financial management. Support would include the
         installation of a computerized billing system to improve efficiency, accuracy and timeliness of billing and
         collections, introduction of new tariffs to improve financial sustainability, training and procurement of
         equipment to improve operational efficiency and capacity building in customer care, public relations and
         financial management.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Dialogue with Government of Ethiopia and its sector institutions regarding the Bank's further support of the water
supply and sanitation (WSS) sector began in April 1992. The Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation
Project (WSDRP) built on experience of the previous World Bank project "Market Towns Development Project"
(approved in 1990 and closed in 1999), as well as various Bank projects supporting AAWSA. As part of project
preparation, each Region was visited by the Project preparation team and their specific requests for assistance were
discussed. In addition, the Prime Minister's Office held several seminars for the Regional Bureaus' management to
discuss policy issues and institutional structures. Though the consumers were interviewed, no formal consumer
participation took place during project preparation. The WSDRP was appraised in September 1994 and approved
in April 1996. The project finally became effective in January 1997, nearly five years after initial dialogue on the
project began.

Based on team member and client interviews as well as review of project preparation and appraisal documents, this
Project's quality at entry was rated satisfactory, if only marginally so. This rating takes into account that the
preparation of the project was introduced under challenging circumstances in a post-conflict country engaged in
major transformation and decentralization. The rating is based on the following considerations.

Consistency with government policy and Country Assistance Strategy ~ The project's objectives were consistent
with Government of the Democratic Federal Republic of Ethiopia (GFDRE) sector objectives and the Country
Assistance Strategy.

Realism ~ The scope of the project components was realistic within the time and budget available.

However, the original project objective was overly ambitious: even if all activities would have been carried out and
outputs achieved the project objective would not necessarily have been achieved. The disparity between the project
objective and activities is most apparent for rural WSS. The activities for rural WSS are limited to a pilot, and
budget allocation is very low at 2M USD (3% of project budget). The limited scope of rural water supply
interventions is sound as the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project (ESRFP) that was
prepared in parallel (approved in April 1996) contained a large RWSS component to finance over 13,000 rural
water supply schemes. Achieving the long term WSDRP objective to improve the health and productivity of the
population would depend on the success of the ESRFP project.

The major risk identified in the SAR is the delays in GFDRE implementing key policy issues., including
establishment of an appropriate institutional framework and implementation of tariff increases. To minimize this
risk the GFDRE confirmed its commitment in a "Letter of Sector Policy" and upfront tariff increases. These
measures proved to be insufficient to avoid delays in policy implementation.



                                                          - 3 -

The Project was designed to be implemented in all the Regions in Ethiopia in parallel, including the newly
established remote Regions. The SAR identifies the limited project management capacity of some of the newly
created Regional Governments as the second project risk, but does not convincingly lay out a strategy to address
this risk.

Innovative approaches ~ The project focuses mainly on towns at a time that Bank experience focused almost
exclusively on large cities or rural areas. It involved implementing new strategies for the sector and designing
interventions in areas where little was known. The project design had a strong institutional capacity building focus,
targeting national, regional and local governments simultaneously.

Dual responsibilities ~ Already at the time of appraisal, the Regional Governments officially had the managing
responsibility for WSS operations, with the Federal Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR) in a policy, regulator
and advisory role. Professional capacity in the Regional Water Resources Bureaus was still low. The
implementation arrangements of the project reflect this paradox. The implementation arrangements of the project
identify the Regional Governments as the beneficiaries responsible for day-to-day implementation, but assign
MoWR as the executing agency (except for the AAWSA component for which AAWSA is the executing agency).
Several measures were introduced to increase project ownership of Regional Governments, including the
establishment of a Steering Committee with regional representation and mixed federal/regional expert teams.
However, final responsibility remained with the central government. In hindsight, it might have been better to have
the four big regions (Amhara, Oromia, SNNP and Tigray) to be executing agencies, with MoWR as an executing
agency for the smaller regions.

Monitoring and Evaluation ~ The SAR states that progress will be monitored closely, including a quarterly
regional reporting on project implementation that will be aggregated at the federal level. An annex includes a list
over 100 indicators, but no target or baseline values are defined. The SAR states that target monitoring indicators
will be agreed by November 1996 (nine months after approval) based on a baseline study to be carried out prior to
credit effectiveness. These monitoring and evaluation arrangements do not match the stringent M&E standards
used by the Bank at the time of the ICR.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project development objective to provide sustainable access to adequate and safe water supply services is
rated with a satisfactory outcome. The project not only resulted in physical improvements in the project areas but
also contributed considerably to improved decentralized WSS policies and institutions in Ethiopia as a whole.

The physical improvements to adequate and safe drinking water supply for rural and urban population were
satisfactory. The project resulted in significant improvements in access to safe water supply for over 600,000
people. The project has demonstrated good practices in both urban and rural water supply.

The project contributed ­ beyond expectations - to the establishment of a policy and institutional framework for
decentralized WSS service provision. An enabling environment for WSS delivery was established during the
project period including a National Water Resources Policy, a water strategy and laws at federal and regional
levels. At the same time, the project created an enhanced capacity to provide sustainable access to adequate and
safe water supply services at national, regional and local level. Staff were trained through formal training and on
the job experience. Institutionally the introduction of guidelines and manuals introduced rigor to operations.

Some of the most important outcomes of the project were not direct, planned outcomes of the projects. An
important unplanned result of the project is the strong in-country private sector capacity, with a number of
consultancy and contracting firms established during and with experience gained in the project. The project had
several spin-offs in non-project towns and rural areas that adopted new institutional arrangements or design and
construction methods. This is proof of the ownership of the new approaches.




                                                          - 4 -

Specific objective 1 of improved water supply facilities in 25 towns is rated with a satisfactory outcome. The
project achieved better water supply services in towns. Water production capacity was increased by 10 liters per
capita per day (based on 12 hours operation of facilities). As a result of the project, water consumption has
increased from less than 9 to about 14.5 liters per capita per day. The project also established sound foundations for
future sustainable expansion of water supply services. An important component was the introduction of
cost-effective water supply design methods, which have been adopted by Regions for general use and applied in
several non-project towns.

Specific objective 2 of improved water supply services in urban areas is rated with a satisfactory outcome. The
project resulted in fourteen functioning utilities with autonomous Town Water Boards and water service units that
have been legally established and been operational for over six months at project closing. Another ten emerging
utilities have been formed in the last six months of the project or have Town Water Boards which have not been
officially recognized yet by regional proclamation. The new institutional arrangements have already been adopted
in several non-project towns.

Tariffs have increased by 80% (corrected for inflation) to an average of 2.08 birr/m3. Implementation of tariff
reforms has been somewhat slower than expected, due to the delays in the establishment of the Town Water Boards
and the delay in commissioning of works. The project has resulted in a nation-wide raised awareness of importance
of O&M, billing, tariffs, customer services, financial management. The national policy on urban water supply is
now full cost recovery, where towns must establish business plans and set tariffs to cover recurrent, replacement
and expansion costs.

Capacity of town utilities has increased but is still uneven, mostly due to delays in legislation and establishment of
the Town Water Boards. At the regional level, Regional Water Bureaus have been considerably reinforced mainly
through on the job experience in project implementation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and information flows
between various levels of government is still weak. This is particularly important for continuity in the sector, as
staff turnover is high in government institutions, in particular at the local level.

Specific objective 3 of sustainable RWSS management systems/options selected is rated with a satisfactory
outcome. The RWSS component was a minor part of the project design, yet has achieved a consensus on
Community Based Management (CBM) approaches among local communities, Woredas, regions, and MOWR.
Tripartnerships between communities, local private sector and Woredas has been developed and piloted in 109
communities. Forty six community water systems were rehabilitated. Eight Woredas developed and piloted
sustainable RWSS management systems to support communities. Four regions developed an enhanced capacity to
support sustainable RWSS management systems. Although hygiene promotion has been carried out in eight
Woredas, improvements in sanitation and hygiene are limited.

The project contributed to a national policy of rural water supply and sanitation. The national policy is based on
individual district water and sanitation programs where government, communities and the private sector partner to
provide sustainable services.The approaches piloted in the project have been adopted in some non-project Woredas
and communities. However, the foreseen scale up of the pilots through the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and
Development Fund Project did not take place due to disparaties in implementation arrangements and timing.

Specific objective 4 is focusing on improving financial management of Addis Ababa Water Supply Authority is
rated with a satisfactory outcome. Customer service improved substantially including: (a) Functioning customer
consultative forum, (b) Change in billing frequency from bi-monthly to monthly, and (c) Improved collection
system, including decentralized bill collection centers. Tariff reform is on track with two steps out of the five
implemented at project closing. Tariffs now cover O&M and depreciation. Financial sustainability is expected to be
achieved by 2005, with revenue exceeding cost of O&M, renewal and replacement, and debt service.

Monitoring and evaluation of the project has been weak. Neither the SAR nor the Mid Term Review (MTR)
contained a full logframe. The MTR stated indicators for outputs, but no indicators at the objective level. Also
target values were not set for some output indicators. No aggregated data on indicators were available. The




                                                          - 5 -

development and introduction of a M&E system was an activity of the project, but while M&E database was
developed, a comprehensive M&E system was never introduced.

4.2 Outputs by components:
25 Towns Rehabilitation and Expansion Component ­ Improved water supply facilities
The rehabilitation works in 20 towns to supply project water needs until at least 2005 were fully or substantially
completed. Work is partially complete in two other towns. Three towns could not be rehabilitated due to water
sources constraints. Groundwater sources could not be found, so a surface water and treatment works, whose cost is
beyond the scope of WSDRP, will be needed.

Final engineering and feasibility study reports to 2025 requirements with staged construction and detailed
engineering design, drawings and tender documents to meet needs up to 2015 have been completed for all 25
towns.

An issues paper on project design on the basis of technical, financial and economical feasibility has been prepared.
A planning process has been developed in 23 towns based on community choice, financial viability, and technical
criteria.

Capacity Building Component ­ Improved water supply services in urban areas
Capacity building, aimed at establishing autonomous Town Water Boards to oversee the town water supply
schemes and professional operators who are able to run the facilities efficiently, is substantially complete in 26
towns (including Harar which is not one of the 25 towns being rehabilitated). Implementation of recommendations
of the organizational, financial and technical management studies formed the basis for the capacity building.

In 16 towns the Boards have obtained legal status but in the remaining seven project towns of Oromia region the
boards have not yet obtained legal status.

The Outreach Training Unit (OTU) established at Ministry of Water Resources organized and coordinated the
development of curricula and delivery of training for a total of 289 trainees from Regional Water Resources
Bureaus, zonal and utility staff. The training was provided by private consultants and government training
institutions.

An additional 1251 utility operating staff and members of Town Water Boards have been trained in management,
financial management and engineering by consultants supporting the regional governments in all the regions with
the exception of Somali. This includes initial training for members of 23 Town Water Boards (including 4 Town
Water Boards in non-project towns). Due to delays in adoption of proclamations establishing the Water Boards and
appointment of Board members, more is needed to involve them in preparation of business plans.




                                                         - 6 -

Table - Institutional Capacity Building component - summary of trainees by region
                                                            Number of trainees per region
                                               Benshang
                       Afar        Amhara ul               Gambella Harar        Oromia    SNNP        Somali     Tigray      Total
Management*
                               20          22           22          27         31        97         64         1           40        324
Financial
management**                   27          34           51          57         24       180         94         7           68        542
Engineering***                118         133           26          37         40       138         53         9         120         674
Total                         165         189           99         121         95       415        211        17         228       1540

of which by
O.T.U/consultants         14/151     50/139        21/78      25/96       18/77     57/358     41/170     17/0      46/182     289/1251
 * including management skill & organization development, store and purchasing management, computer training, contract administration, and
 Board Members orientation
 ** including financial management procedures, accounting principles & software, billing and collection, customer care training, meter readers,
 and tariff/ asset valuation
*** including leak detection & reduction, pipe line technicians training, equipment management, O&M of pumps, boreholes, generators, and
treatment plants, water quality, tap attendants, technical quality management and water supply engineering

Studies were carried out in 26 towns to develop financial models, assess affordability and willingness to pay and
recommend tariffs. The tariffs studies recommended increased block tariffs with blocks varying from 1.25 birrh/m3
to 6.98 birrh/m3. Average recommended tariff for all towns was 3.02 birrh/m3. Tariff reforms have been
implemented in most project towns, although slowed by delays in the establishment of the Town Water Boards and
the delay in commissioning of works. Average tariffs have increased from 1.09 birr/m3 at appraisal, to an average
of 2.08 birr/m3 at the end of the project. This is an average tariff increase of 80% when corrected for inflation.

The capacity of regional bureaus has been enhanced by the provision of the following equipment: 12 maintenance
service rigs, 15 mobile workshops, 13 trucks, 90 vehicles, 11 motor bicycles, 9 computers with printers,
photocopiers, 9 fax machines, and 9 sets of maintenance tools.

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component ­ Sustainable RWSS management systems/options selected
Through this component training was provided to community committees, care takers and service providers in
eleven demonstration Woredas in the four largest regions. This resulted in the establishment of 109 community
management based schemes. Manuals were prepared to facilitate scale-up by the regions and woredas and are now
used for non-project towns and woredas.

Capacity building was carried out in 11 Woredas in 4 regions to introduce tripartite arrangement between woreda,
community and local artisans, mechanics and suppliers. Training materials were prepared for communities to learn
to manage their water supply facilities and for artisans to maintain and rehabilitate them through on-the-job
training for water supply facilities in selected communities.

Rehabilitation works were completed in 46 communities, including 22 in Oromia region with regional budget
funding.

Capacity building was carried out in 11 Woredas in 4 regions to introduce financial management systems at the
community level and provide documentation in the form of user manuals. Cost recovery was introduced in most of
the 109 communities that established community management based schemes, although the amount collected is
low. A database for M&E was designed and Woreda staff in eleven Woredas were trained in its use but the
database needs to be simplified before it can be fully implemented.

Further work is needed to improve provision of spare parts and maintenance support and an issues paper has been
prepared on Supply chains to identify actions that can be taken to improve the situation.

Sanitation/hygiene promotion was carried out at community level and documented in manuals. The impact of this



                                                                          - 7 -

training is difficult to assess but appears to be limited.

Table ­ Capacity building for RWSS component
    Region         # of project    Capacity building carried       # of CBM schemes         Rehabilitation of
                    woredas          out satisfactorily # of           established           existing schemes
                                           woredas
  Amhara                      3                              3                       19                         0
  Oromia                      3                              3                       40                        22
  SNNP                        3                              3                       20                        18
  Tigray                      2                              2                       30                         6
  TOTAL                      11                             11                       109                       46


Addis Ababa Water Supply Component ­improved financial management
This component provided support to the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority principally to improve its
billing/collection and financial management.

A tariff study was completed (see table below on recommended tariff). Recommendations to raise the tariff in 5
steps are being implemented. Two phases out of the five have been implemented by 2003, resulting in coverage of
O&M and depreciation. Further increases are scheduled to phase up to full cost recovery revenue exceeding cost of
O&M, renewal and replacement, and debt service) over the coming three years.

Table ­ Tariff reform AAWSA
                    Tariff block                                        Tariff (birr/m3)
                                            Phase-1         Phase- 2       Phase- 3       Phase- 4       Phase- 5
 Public tap and block- 1 (1-7m3)              1.15            1.30            1.45         1.60           1.75
 block- 2 (8-20m3)                            1.95            2.25            2.55         2.85           3.15
  Non domestic & block- 3 (above 20m3)        2.65            3.00            3.40         3.75           3.80


Customer care management and monitoring and evaluation systems were installed and improved service delivery
against established benchmarks. A computerized billing system has been installed and improvements in efficiency,
accuracy and timeliness of billing and collections have been realized. Construction of two of the five branch
offices was completed, while work on the three others was stalled due to problems in land acquisition. Computers
with printers were purchased and distributed to branch offices.

Training was provided to senior and middle level managements and technical staff, including in general and
specific management, financial management and professional training (strategic planning, safety training,
pollution control and leak detection and control). A total of 393 staff were trained in 37 different job specific skills.


A Management Information System study was completed under the component. Further improvements are needed
to AASA's financial management systems to enable production of timely audit reports and to improve its
credtiworthiness. Unfortunately, AAWSA was unable to purchase and install the Management Information System
before the extended project closing date due to delays in procurement.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The analysis of economic costs and benefits has been made following the methodology used in SAR. The cost
benefit analysis is done for the project towns. Some of the assumptions in the SAR have been modified based on
the latest estimates and actual data. Based on the cost benefit analysis included in annex 3, the economic internal
rate or return is calculated at 11%, which indicates the viability of the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated in the Staff Appraisal Document. Given the limited data available it was
decided not to include a financial rate of return in the ICR. A financial rate of return calculation for the 25 towns




                                                            - 8 -

would not be appropariate as the project did not set achievement of a particular financial rate of return in these
towns as a target.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is substantial. This is in line with the Mid Term Review,
that placed special emphasis on sustaining those facilities that are already constructed, through a demand-driven,
community-based investment strategy. The project provided critical contributions to policy and strategy
formulation process and has demonstrated good practices in both urban and rural water supply. A national
decentralized WSS program is now in place, including a legal basis at both the national and regional levels.
Regional Water Resources Development Bureaus have been strengthened through on the job training. The
ownership of the project is demonstrated by several spin offs financed directly by the RWBs including the
introduction of the sustainable RWSS management system developed in the project in other communities and
woredas, application of the cost-effective design criteria for towns, and establishment of Town Water Boards. Also
a strong private sector has been established (consultants and contractors) at national and regional level. Capacity at
local level is still uneven, and requires attention in follow up activities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing agency, which affected project
implementation and outcomes were:
l    The recurring drought coupled with fast population growth affected the growth of per capita income of the
     project communities, which in turn has influenced the affordability level of the communities to pay for
     improved water services.
l    The war between Ethiopia and Eritrea caused delay in implementation and loss of equipment at the Assab
     port.
l    Decreasing donor interest in supporting the WSS sector in Ethiopia prevented donor coordination from
     becoming a central feature of the project, as envisaged in the SAR.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The major factor that affected the implementation and outcome of this project was ongoing decentralization. The
Project was implemented in parallel with general decentralization reforms. These reforms had both a positive and
negative impact on project implementation. On the positive side, the general decentralization processes created the
necessary momentum for reforms within the WSS sector. On the negative side, the decentralization reforms
resulted in high staff turnovers, especially at the regional and local level. At the central level many staff were
involved in intensive working groups as part of the decentralization process, leaving them less time to devote to
project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Three major factors that are subject to the control of the implementing agencies affected project implementation
and outcome:
l    Dual responsibility of and lack of communication between agencies: There was no clear demarcation of
     responsibilities between the Ministry of Water Resources and Regional Water Resources Bureaus throughout
     the project: the MoWR did not have authority to make decisions within towns, and the Regions were not as
     responsive as they would have been had they had direct accountability for implementation. The Steering
     Committee with decision making powers foreseen in the SAR never took off. The unclear implementation
     arrangements resulted in a reluctance of various agencies to share information. For example, supervision of
     consultants ­ contracted at the federal level - by regional and local governments was complicated and
     sometimes left room for maneuvering on the consultants' side. The original procurement plan focused on large
     multi-region consultancy packages which were beyond the capacity of local consultancy firms. The
     implementing agencies were not happy with the high costs and limited value of reports by international
     consultants, and wanted more investment in improved water supplies. The Mid Term Review put greater
     emphasis on immediate rehabilitation/expansion works, and on use of local consultants for capacity building
     and construction supervision. The MTR did not reconsider the dual implementation arrangements. After the



                                                           - 9 -

     MTR the pace of implementation increased, but the project was still delayed by lengthy procedures and
     formalities resulting in procurement and contracting difficulties, especially in the capacity building and RWSS
     components.
l    High staff turnover: High staff turnover, especially at the regional and local level, due to lack of incentives
     and uncompetitive remuneration schemes, contributed to the delays in the implementation process. Some of
     the staff that left public institutions, joined the emerging private sector and thus remained in the sector.
l    Adequacy of monitoring and evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation has been weak throughout the project.
     The performance indicators listed in the SAR were too numerous. Although target monitoring indicators were
     agreed in an early stage of the project, regular regional reporting on project implementation and aggregation
     at the federal level was never fully implemented. The MTR contained part of a logframe but was incomplete
     and did not contain a good set of indicators. Baseline information for the project was not collected except as
     part of the planning and design exercise. M&E criteria were set as part of capacity building in the towns, but
     ­again - data was not collected regularly. Monitoring of project progress and outcomes have been a low
     priority for the implementation agencies throughout the project. Lack of communication between various tiers
     of government decreased the efficiency of data gathering and feedback mechanisms.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the end of the project, 84% of IDA credit amount was disbursed. US$ 5.7 million remained un-disbursed,
caused by delays in securing land for branch offices and delays in procurement (AAWSA's workshop equipment
and accounting software procurements) and by the fact that physical and price contingencies were not utilized.

The counterpart funding defined in project preparation was very ambitious (29.28M out of 65.5M, or 45% of
overall project budget). The Government of Ethiopia ­ at federal, regional and local level - have made considerable
efforts to provide counterpart funds in a timely manner, and disbursed 66% of their budget.

There were no significant cost changes between components. A slight reallocation of funds among the four project
components took place following MTR recommendations. The budget for the rural WSS component was nearly
doubled at Mid Term Review (from 2M to 3.5 M dollars) although the absolute increase was small. The final
disbursement is closely in line with the budget in the Mid Term Review.

There have been considerable delays in project implementation. The project was extended three times. Part of 28
months extension (from an estimated 49 months project period in the SAR to a 77 months actual duration)
compensated the 8-months delay in the Developmental Credit Agreement effectiveness. Most other delays were
caused by procurement delays. The international selection of three consultants to carry out the planning, design
and bid documents in the 25 towns had to be repeated resulting in a one year setback. An extra tender for pipes and
fittings was required due to the relocation of boreholes and design errors. Some further delays were caused by
postponements in legalizing and establishing local institutions.

The detailed costs and financing tables are presented in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated by the ICR team as likely.

The project supported the first steps of a pioneering and ambitious WSS sector decentralization. When completed,
this reform will increase sustainability of WSS service delivery and render governments more closely accountable
to communities. At present the fundamentals are put in to place and sustainability of institutional reform in upper
tiers of government (federal and regional) is high, including legislation at federal and regional level.

The decentralized nature of the new institutional arrangements increases the incentives for participants to sustain
project outcomes. The rural water supply component especially had strong local participation, increasing the
sustainability of the project. However, local institutions (towns, woredas, and water committees) need further
strengthening for sustainability. Although the project lasted for more than 6 years, many of the local institutions



                                                           - 10 -

 have only been established recently. This means that there has not been an opportunity yet to observe most of them
 performing satisfactorily. High staff turnover at the local level has hampered sustainability of capacity building.

 With the exception of Addis Ababa, financial viability is still low, as tariffs have do not yet cover O&M and
 depreciation. The test will come now that the systems have been commissioned and tariffs can be raised further.

 6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The legal basis for town water board management has been established through regional legislation, but most Town
Water Boards have only been active for a number of months. Most physical works were completed towards the end
of the project. As a result, both Town Water Boards and town water supply units still require capacity building so
that they can assume their full responsibility. The same is true for Woreda level water desks which have been
established recently. For the moment, the Regional Water Resources Bureaus still play a major backstopping role in
both urban and rural water supply and sanitation. The strengthened local private sector also supports local service
providers to kick start decentralized and improved service delivery both for rural and urban WSS systems.

A new World Bank project is being prepared that builds on the experience of the WSDRP. Regional implementation
guidelines for both rural and urban WSS are being prepared by all the regions. Application of these implementation
guidelines must be carried out as soon as possible to learn from implementation and allow further refinement.

 7. Bank and Borrower Performance

 Bank
 7.1 Lending:
 The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory, although only
 marginally so. This rating takes into account that the preparation of the project was introduced under challenging
 circumstances in a post-conflict country engaged in major transformation and decentralization.

 The scope of the project components was realistic within the time and budget available, but the broader
 development objective as originally identified was overly ambitious.

 The Bank team maintained a balance between physical infrastructure, institutional capacity building, and reform in
 the project. This stemmed from the recognition that infrastructure may not be sustainable without accompanying
 institutional strengthening. The project focuses mainly on towns and involved implementing new strategies for the
 sector and designing interventions in areas where little was known.

 The SAR identified the major risk of the project but does not convincingly lay out a strategy to address these risks.
 When the project was prepared and appraised, the country was going through a rather dramatic change of
 responsibilities. In hindsight, the project team could have spent more time in developing a sector strategy and a
 more adequate implementing arrangements.

 7.2 Supervision:
 Quality of the task management over the life of the project was satisfactory.

 In general, Bank's supervision was diligent and focused with a clear objective of providing implementation support
 to the Government. There were only two task managers in charge of supervision during the life of the project, and
 considerable effort made to provide overlap by retaining key task team member throughout most of the
 implementation period. Continuity in supervision was enhanced by professional staff in the country office, and
 support from the Water and Sanitation Program.

 Besides acting as lender, the Bank also acted as a partner to the implementing agencies, and made creative
 proposals for new studies and approaches to facilitate /improve project implementation. The advice given by the
 Bank to the implementing agencies was perceived to be highly useful by all counter parts: MoWR, the Regional
 Water Resources Bureaus, and AAWSA. The Mid Term Review of the project is a clear indicator of the flexible
 and proactive engagement of the task team.



                                                         - 11 -

Both Bank and borrower reported various issues with procurement, resulting from the extensive use of centralized
procurement processes and packaging of procurement.

QAG assessed the quality of supervision in September 2000 as satisfactory, praising the competence and
responsiveness of the supervision team. Areas that were marginally satisfactory involved (a) financial
management, particularly the slow follow-up on audit reports, (b) performace indicators which had not yet been
fully developed and agreed with the Government and (c) reporting in the Project Status Report, particularly the
lack of explanation for changes in ratings and the lack of key performance indicators.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was judged to be satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance at preparation is rated satisfactory, although only marginally so. The rating takes into
account that the preparation of the project was introduced under challenging circumstances.

The scope of the project components was realistic within the time and budget available, but the broader
development objective as originally identified was overly ambitious. The counterpart funding defined in project
preparation was very ambitious (29.28M or 45% of overall project budget).

The project introduces innovative strategies for the sector and designing interventions in areas where little was
known.

The SAR identified the major risk of the project but does not convincingly lay out a strategy to address these risks.
In hindsight, the project team should have built in more flexibility into the project to adjust to the ongoing change
of responsibilities during decentralization.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government commitment to the reform and decentralization process in the water supply and sanitation sector is
high at all levels. The provision of counterpart funds was timely and considerable, although not up to the ambitious
level defined in the SAR. Government follow-up on and agreements reached during negotiations and the letter of
sector policy was uneven. Government performance can be characterized as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory during project implementation, despite a slow start
up.

The MoWR team working on the project showed a high continuity, with most key staff retained within the project
team throughout most of the implementation period. There was clear ownership of the project by staff, and a
commitment to resolving problems so that implementation would proceed on schedule. Senior officials and
managers at the federal level did take strong leadership to provide strategy and policy direction.

The main weakness of the implementation agencies was the lack of cooperation between the federal and regional
level institutions. This directly and indirectly led to implementation delays. The lack of proper information and
infrequency of meetings did adversely impact project implementation, learning across stakeholders, and M&E.
Cooperation slightly improved towards the end of the project period.

Regional and local implementation agencies' management procedures and technical capacity were weak at the
beginning of the project, but increased gradually during the project period. The capacity of Regional Water
Resources Bureaus has improved, although it is still mixed. The Regional Water Resources Bureaus sometimes
focused too much on civil works components and gave little attention to the technical assistance and capacity
building components. Regional Bureaus were initially hesitant to commence any arrangements that would involve



                                                          - 12 -

the private sector in constructing and managing facilities. However, attitudes changed over the project period,
showing a realistic approach in terms of identifying their shortcomings with a desire to learn and continuously
improve the sector strategy based on tangible results in the field. Continuity of staffing remains a problem at the
regional and local level.

AAWSA's performance was satisfactory during project implementation. However, the backlog of audit reports
that AAWSA had to work through reduced the potential impact of the project. Cooperation between the MoWR
and AAWSA persisted as a weakness throughout the life of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, given the ambitious nature of the project and the ongoing
reforms in the WSS sector in Ethiopia

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned of the project are (a) on decentralization, (b) on sequencing and flexible implementation
arrangements (c) on capacity building, and (d) on sanitation and hygiene.

On decentralization
Increasing decentralization of governmental responsibilities renders governments more closely accountable to
communities but also presents a major challenge in capacity-building at local level. The project shows how
decentralized service delivery can improve the effectiveness and sustainability of water supply in both urban and
rural areas. Communities can call local public officials, public and private service providers to account, requiring
that they be answerable for their policies, actions, and use of funds. The capacity of regional local governments
need to be strengthened so that they can assume more responsibility for sector oversight and policy
implementation.

Decentralization is a prerequisite for moving towards more demand driven approaches, as only local institutions
are in a position to listen to and understand the demands of their consumers. Frequent experiences from the project
have attested to the readiness and ability of rural communities to assume increasing roles through time. Adequate
information on the options available to select from different systems and corresponding costs is essential. The
project demonstrated that a choice of more appropriate technological options and service levels increases the
affordability and ownership and motivation of communities to operate and maintain the schemes in rural areas and
urban centers.

Decentralization of responsibilities should go hand in hand with decentralization of powers and budget.
Decentralization requires trust and cooperation between various tiers of government. This can only be achieved if
the mandates and accountabilities of each institution are well defined and it has a corresponding budget allocation.
As decentralization is a time consuming process, a staged approach should be adopted, in which responsibilities
and budget allocations for interim steps have to be defined. A sound governance regime includes clear division of
responsibilities, authorities and lines of accountability among sector institutions.

Decentralization is a staged process requiring shifts in mentality and capacity building. Changes in legislation and
institutional reforms take time. Building capacity so that the newly created institutions can function takes more
time. And changing the mentality of people takes even more time and commitment. In its six and half years of
implementation, the project has contributed considerably to devolution of power from the central government to the
regions. A National Water Resources Management Policy was developed in 1999, and federal level legislation on
water was promulgated in the year 2000. In the three following years, most regional states have promulgated their
legislations on the establishment of autonomous WSS service providers, such as Town Water Boards and Water
Committees. This was first step to further decentralize responsibilities to the local level, but several more years of
intensive reform and capacity building will be required to establish fully operational decentralized service delivery.

Decentralization offers an opportunity to improve performance of service delivery by introducing a mix of private
sector, public entities, and communities to deliver services. Decentralization requires a redefinition of roles and



                                                          - 13 -

responsibilities between different tiers of government. It is opportune to consider the potential role of the private
and informal sectors simultaneously. The project showed how local private sector development can increase
effectiveness of water supply delivery and guarantee stability during decentralization processes.

On sequencing and flexible implementation arrangements
An integrated national programmatic approach must serve as a basis for local action. Decentralization and water
supply and sanitation sector reform are intrinsically linked. The sequencing of reform is key. Decentralization of
WSS service delivery is an iterative process between policy formulation, institutional development, infrastructure
improvements, and financial improvements. Implementation arrangements should be flexible enough to respond to
transitions during project implementation.

Project design should be "performance based", prioritizing those towns and communities willing to get themselves
organized, pay for (part of) the cost of service delivery. There is a natural tendency among sector institutions and
professionals (often engineers) to focus on the civil works components and pay less attention to reform and
capacity building components. A stepped approach can focus attention on initial financial and institutions
improvements by rewarding those who get their house in order with project financing for physical works.

Implementation arrangement should be effected at the lowest level whenever conditions and capacity permit.
Probably, the biggest shortcoming of the present project was the dual responsibility and unclear accountability
between the MoWR and the Regional Governments. This arrangement reflected the transitional stage of the
country but were contradictory to GFDRE policies even at time of project appraisal.

Monitoring and evaluation increases the effectiveness of a project by capturing the lessons learnt under each
planning phase and by forcing institutions to communicate. Monitoring and evaluation requires considerable
resources (time, money and commitment). Indicators should be few and simple, so that the M&E system works in a
efficient and timely manner. The lack of cooperation between the federal, regional and local level institutions and
proper information flows in this project did adversely impact monitoring and evaluation. However, M&E can also
be seen as a means to increase information and knowledge exchange. M&E is crucial in decentralized projects in
order to be able to reallocate budgets from low performers to high performers.

Transfer of knowledge between various tiers of government is essential in decentralized systems and requires
collaboration on common problems. Cooperation on project implementation between the various levels of
government ­ when taking place - increased the learning and exchange of experiences between practitioners at the
national, regional and local level. Forums should be created to enhance the transfer of tacit knowledge among staff
working on shared problems and to gather and disseminate relevant knowledge.

On capacity building
On the job capacity building (through project implementation) is often more effective than formal training. The
biggest gains in capacity were at the Regional Water Resources Bureau level, although they benefited from
relatively few formal training activities. Regional bureau staff learned by doing. Many institutions in the local
private sector (consultants, contractors) also enhanced their capacity while being involved in subsequent
assignments increasing in scope and complexity. Considerable class-room teaching and preparation of manuals
aimed at the town level did not result in sustainable capacity gains at town level for a number of reasons. The
instability of local institutions with high staff turnover and changing mandates is probably the main reason for this.
However, impact has also been limited because of the modality of training provided. Consultants did not always
reach out to the towns and woredas beyond short training sessions. Training guidelines and manuals did not
always respond to local demands and were not customized to the intended audience.

Sector institutions need to have acquired a minimum level of stability before capacity building activities can have
sustainable results. This stable basis includes the presence of basic institutions mandated by laws and policies to
carry out defined tasks, so that people can be taught in the right skills and knowledge. It also requires a stability in
workforce, so that those trained remain in the job, the institutions, or at least the sector.

On sanitation and hygiene



                                                          - 14 -

Specific sanitation and hygiene components should be included in project design including earmarked budgets.
Although the project included some hygiene promotion activities, results were limited. In order to make a
difference, sanitation and hygiene should be more than an add on to a water supply project. The characteristics of
sanitation and hygiene provision require distinct approaches rather than merely copycats of successful water supply
management models. Specific approaches are required as benefits of improved sanitation and hygiene depend
largely on investment decisions at the household level and demand for sanitation lags behind demand for water,
and willingness to pay is low. The order of introducing sanitation infrastructure - starting with the household
facilities, followed by public infrastructure - differs from water supply. Water professions need to team up with
those involved in social marketing and health education. Sanitation strategies must fit into the existing broader
city or rural development strategies and economy-wide priority setting, and should be implemented in cooperation
with other sectors.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 for borrower's contribution to the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                           - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE:
SUSTAINABLE ACCESS TO ADEQUATE
AND SAFE WATER SUPPLY SERVICES
PROVIDED

550,000 population with significantly                                      620,000 population with significantly
improved access to safe water supply                                       improved access to safe water supply

Decentralized institutional framework -                                    Decentralized institutional framework -
including local private sector participation -                             including local private sector participation -
established to provide sustainable access to                               established
adequate and safe water supply services

Enhanced capacity to provide sustainable                                   Strong private sector (consultants and
access to adequate and safe water supply                                   contractors) at national and regional level
services at national, regional and local level                             Regional water bureaus strengthened
                                                                           Capacity at local level still uneven

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE 1: IMPROVED
WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES IN 25
TOWNS

Water production capacity increased from 10                                Water production capacity increased by 10
l/cap/day to 20 l/cap/day                                                  l/cap/day

Water consumption increased from 9                                         Water consumption increased from 9
l/cap/day to 15 l/cap/day                                                  l/cap/day to 14.5 l/cap/day



SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE 2: IMPROVED
WATER SUPPLY SERVICES IN URBAN
AREAS

25 functioning utilities (including town water                             14 functioning utilities with autonomous
boards and water supply units)                                             TWB legally established and operational for >
                                                                           6 months
                                                                           10 emerging utilities with with autonomous
                                                                           TWB established but operational for < 6
                                                                           months

Enhanced capacity to support improvements                                  Enhanced capacity to support improvements
WS service in urban areas in 9 regions                                     WS service in urban areas in 8 regions
                                                                           (Somali not)

Average tariff in project towns increased to                               Average tariff in project towns increased to
for full cost recoverey including recurrent,                               Birr 2.1 birrh/m3
replacement and expansion

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE 3: SUSTAINABLE
RWSS MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS/OPTIONS SELECTED

Capacity increased for sustainable RWS                                     Capacity increased for sustainable RWS
services through tripartite partnership                                    services through tripartite partnership
between communities, local private sector                                  between communities, local private sector
and woreda in 110 communities                                              and woreda in 109 communities

Sustainable RWSS management                                                Sustainable RWSS management
systems/options developed and piloted in 11                                systems/options developed and piloted in 11
woredas                                                                    woredas




                                                        - 16 -

Enhanced capacity to support sustainable                                                      Enhanced capacity to support sustainable
RWSS management systems/options in 4                                                          RWSS management systems/options in 4
regions                                                                                       regions



SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE 4: IMPROVING
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF ADDIS
ABABA WATER SUPPLY

Full cost recovery (revenue exceeding cost of                                                 Tariff covers O&M and depreciation, full cost
O&M, renewal & replacement, capital                                                           recovery planned by 2005.
servicing costs, and expansion)

Improved customer service                                                                     Customer service improved substantially
                                                                                              including:
                                                                                              * Functioning customer consultative forum
                                                                                              * Change in billing frequency from
                                                                                              bi-monthly to monthly
                                                                                              * Improved collection system, including
                                                                                              decentralized bill collection centers




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
25 TOWNS REHABILITATION AND
EXPANSION COMPONENT - IMPROVED
WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES


25 urban systems rehabilitated and expanded Rehabilitation works in 21 towns substantially Rehabilitation works in 20 towns fully or
to 2005 demand.                              complete, well advance in 1 additional town, 3 substantially complete. Partially complete in 2
                                             towns cannot be rehabilitated under the          additional towns, 3 towns cannot be
                                             project due to water source constraints          rehabilitated (water sources constraints)


Expansion works beyond 2005 are prioritized Design and tender docs completed for 25           25 town systems designed to 2025
so that they can be financed through water   towns.                                           requirements with staged construction .
sales. Communities have established a tariff Tariff studies & capacity building carried out   Designs and tender docs complete for 2015
that covers both recurrent costs and         in 25 towns and systems developed to             requirements for 25 towns.
expansion investments.                       assess affordability and willingness to pay      Tariff studies & capacity building carried out
                                             and recommend tariffs                            in 26 towns and systems developed to
                                                                                              assess affordability and willingness to pay
                                                                                              and recommend tariffs


Design guidelines set out a process and      Issue paper prepared on project design,          Issue paper prepared on project design,
method based on community participation      based on technical, financial and economic       based on technical, financial and economic
that balances local priorities, financial    feasibility. Guidelines for preparation of       feasibility. Planning process developed in 23
viability, and technical criteria            regional implementation manual specifying        towns
                                             design criteria to be followed for accessing
                                             funding for urban WSS



CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT -                .
IMPROVED WATER SUPPLY SERVICES
IN URBAN AREAS


Improved water supply system skills/capacity OTU established, curriculum developed and OTU established, curriculum developed and
within regional offices, zonal offices, and  traning delivered to regional, zonal and utility traning delivered to regional, zonal and utility
towns                                        staff by OTU.                                    staff by OTU.
                                             Capacity building carried out to establish       324 local/regional people trained in general
                                             water boards in 26 towns and train members manangement and 674 local/regional people
                                             in financial management ,personnel               trained in financial management
                                             management, and tariffs


National WSS program in place that                                                            National WSS program in place that




                                                                 - 17 -

realistically focuses role of goverment on                                                    realistically focuses role of goverment on
planning and managing the program, not                                                        planning and managing the program, not
building capacity to directly provide services                                                building capacity to directly provide services


Improved O&M for WS services in urban          Electro-mechanical equipment, pipes and        12 maintenance service rigs, 15 mobile
centers                                        fiings and operational tools and equipment     workshops, 13 trucks, 90 vehicles, 11 motor
                                               provided.                                      bicycles, 9 computers with printers,
                                               Capacity building carried out to establish     photocopiers, 9 fax machines, and 9 sets of
                                               water boards in 26 towns and train members maintenance tools provided
                                               in M&E



RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION COMPONENT -
SUSTAINABLE RWWS MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS/OPTIONS SELECTED


Communities adopting CBM concept,              capacity building carried out in 11 woredas in capacity building carried out in 11 woredas in
including sustainable financial management     4 regions to introduce CBM and train           4 regions to introduce CBM and train
systems                                        communities                                    communities


Communities performing self-management         Capacity building carried out in 11 woredas in 46 community schemes rehabilitated and
                                               4 regions to introduce CBM and train           self-managed by way of on the job training
                                               communities; manuals prepared to facilitate
                                               scale-up by the regions and woredas


Decentralized support services for             Supply chains issues paper prepared to         Supply chain issues paper prepared,
communities available including local spare    recommend actions to improve availability      implementation initiated but with limited
part outlets and artisans /groups trained for  and distribution of spare parts and            results
O&M tasks                                      maintenance support


New schemes initiated, planned, requested      No funding available within the project        Manuals prepared for 11 woredas in 4
and implemented                                                                               regions


Awareness of improved hygiene/sanitation       Sanitation/hygiene promotion carried out at     Sanitation/hygiene promotion carried out at
practices enhanced in communities and          community level in 11 woredas                  community level in 11 woredas
among households



ADDIS ABABA WATER SUPPLY
COMPONENT- IMPROVING FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT


Tariff study completed and implemented,                                                       Tariff study completed. Implementation
including installation of computerized billing                                                started and two phases out of the five stages
system installed to improve collection                                                        are implemented
efficiency


Training and procurement of equipment to                                                      Operational equipment, computers and spare
improve operational efficiency                                                                parts procured. Training provided for 393
                                                                                              management and technical staff


Capacity building in customer care, PR and                                                    Monitoring and evaluation system and
financial management                                                                          customer care management system in place.
                                                                                              A computerized billing system has been
                                                                                              installed


Extension of 6 branch offices                                                                 Two of the five branches construction are
                                                                                              completed. All are provided with computers
                                                                                              for billing and collection

1 End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

- 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
25 Towns Rehabilitation and Expansion Component ­            21.38           23.22             109
Improved water supply facilities
Capacity Building Component ­ Improved water supply          21.50           19.46              91
services in urban areas (1)
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component ­                 1.99             0.77             39
Sustainable RWWS management systems/options selected
Addis Ababa Water Supply Component ­improving                 9.07             6.39             70
financial management (2)

Total Baseline Cost                                          53.94           49.84
 Physical Contingencies                                       4.28
 Price Contingencies                                          7.28
                           Total Project Costs               65.50           49.84
                    Total Financing Required                 65.50           49.84
Notes:
1 - includes capacity building for regions and MOWR
2 - includes land acquisition/compensation

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                               0.97         0.00          0.00          15.79       16.76
                                     (0.47)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.47)
2. Goods                              27.85         0.00          0.30          0.00        28.15
                                     (16.93)        (0.00)      (0.30)          (0.00)     (17.23)
3. Services                            0.00         0.00         18.03          2.45        20.48
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (18.03)         (0.00)     (18.03)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00         0.00          0.00          0.10        0.10
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
    Total                             28.82         0.00         18.33          18.34       65.49
                                     (17.40)        (0.00)      (18.33)         (0.00)     (35.73)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other



                                                 - 20 -

   1. Works                                  0.00               0.00              0.00             7.11              7.11
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                  30.44              0.00              1.46             0.00             31.90
                                            (18.63)            (0.00)            (1.46)            (0.00)           (20.09)
   3. Services                               8.44               2.11              0.00             0.00             10.55
                                            (8.44)             (2.11)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.55)
   4. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.82             0.00              0.82
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                                38.88              2.11              2.28             7.11             50.38
                                            (27.07)            (2.11)            (1.46)            (0.00)           (30.64)

     1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
        of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
        managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
25 Towns Rehabilitation         10.99        12.85                    11.85         11.37                 107.8     88.5
and Expansion Component
­ Improved water supply
facilities
Capacity Building               19.91         8.07                    13.27         6.19                  66.6      76.7
Component ­ Improved
water supply services in
urban areas
Rural Water Supply and           0.10         2.44                     0.72         0.05                  720.0     2.0
Sanitation Component ­
Sustainable RWWS
management
systems/options selected
Addis Ababa Water Supply         4.73         6.40                     4.21         2.18                  89.0      34.1
Component ­improving
financial management
Total                           35.73        29.76                    30.05         19.74                 84.1      66.3




                                                            - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The analysis of economic costs and benefits has been made following the methodology used in SAR. However,
some of the assumptions involved in SAR have been modified based on the latest estimates and actual data.

The cost benefit analysis is done for the project towns. The population of the project towns is estimated to grow at
4% (CSA's data) per annum instead of 3%, which was assumed at appraisal stage. The population of other areas,
which was assumed at appraisal stage to be indirectly benefited from the project, is not included at this stage due to
high uncertainty of information.

The level of water consumption has shown an improvement due to rehabilitation of schemes even without the
implementation of the newly developed systems. The annual per capita consumption, which was 2.9 m3 (7.9
l/cap/day) at appraisal increased to 4.8 m3 (13.2 l/cap/day) in 2001 and to 6.4 m3 (17.5 l/cap/day) in 2003 for
sample of project towns. This trend shows a further improvement of water consumption after implementation of the
new systems and hence daily per capita consumption has been assumed to reach 20 liters in year 2005 when the
new system will be fully operational and then increases by 2 liters per annum until it reaches 40 liters in the year
2015.

Average tariff, which was about birr 1.00 per m3 during appraisal, had shown an increase between 1999 and 2003
to birr 2.00 per m3. This rate is assumed to prevail up to 2004 and will gradually improve towards full cost
recovery level and an average of birr 3.50 per m3 (2005-2010), birr 4.50 per m3 (2011-2015) and birr 5.00 per m3
(2015-2020) has been assumed for the purpose of this analysis.

Health costs related to water borne diseases is directly taken from SAR estimate, which was US$ 4 per capita. The
per capita health cost will gradually decrease with improved water supply and it is assumed 5% of reduction of per
capita health costs every year until it reaches 10% in year 2015.

Investment cost of the project towns is estimated to be US$ 28 million. This cost is assumed to increase up to 2000
and decline as we approach completion period (2003). Operation and maintenance cost has been taken as 4% of
the total investment cost of the project towns and this cost is assumed to grow at an average of 2% per annum. The
discount rate is 10%, which is given by the federal government as a national parameter.

Based on the facts and assumptions explained above then the following are observed:
·         NPV of total benefits = US$ 30.61 million
·         NPV of total costs = US$ 27.70 million
·         NPV of net benefits = US$ 2.91 million
EIRR = 11% (which is more than 10% implying the viability of the project)




                                                        - 22 -

                                        ECONOMIC COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF PROJECT TOWNS
                       W ithout Project                  W ith Project                Inc. Benefit
                                          Healt
                                   Rev.   h                      Rev.    Health                     Total   Inv.    O&M    Total
                           Tariff  Water Cost             Tariff Water   Cost     Water     Health  Benefit Cost    Cost   Cost    Net
      Towns'    Water      Birr/m3 (Mill  (Mill Water     Birr/  (Mill   (Mill    Con.(m (Mill       (Mill  (mill   (mill  (mil    Benefi
Year Population Con(m3/yr) )       US$)   US$) Con(m3/yr) m3)    US$)    US$)     ill US$) US$)     US$)    US$)    US$)   US$)    t
1996   550000     1595000     1.00   0.21  2.20    1595000 1.00      0.21     2.20    0.00     0.00    0.00                    0.00  0.00
1997   572000     1658800     1.00   0.22  2.29    1658800 1.00      0.22     2.29    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.12   1.12    2.24 -2.24
1998   594880     1725152     1.00   0.23  2.38    1725152 1.00      0.23     2.14    0.00     0.24    0.24     3.92   1.12    5.04 -4.80
1999   618675     1794158     1.00   0.24  2.47 2969640.96 2.00      0.79     2.23    0.55     0.25    0.80      5.6   1.12    6.72 -5.92
2000   643422     1865924     1.00   0.25  2.57    3088427 2.00      0.82     2.06    0.57     0.51    1.09        7   1.12    8.12 -7.03
2001   669159     1940561     1.00   0.26  2.68    3211964 2.00      0.86     2.14    0.60     0.54    1.13      5.6   1.14    6.74 -5.61
2002   695925     2018184     1.00   0.24  2.78    3340442 2.00      0.79     1.95    0.55     0.84    1.38     3.08   1.17    4.25 -2.86
2003   723762     2098911     1.00   0.25  2.90    4632080 2.00      1.09     2.03    0.84     0.87    1.71     1.68   1.19    2.87 -1.16
2004   752713     2182868     1.00   0.26  3.01    4817363 2.00      1.13     1.81    0.88     1.20    2.08            1.21    1.21  0.87
2005   782821     2270182     1.00   0.27  3.13    5714597 3.50      2.35     1.88    2.09     1.25    3.34            1.24    1.24  2.10
2006   814134     2360990     1.00   0.28  3.26    6513075 3.50      2.68     1.63    2.40     1.63    4.03            1.26    1.26  2.77
2007   846700     2455429     1.00   0.29  3.39    7450958 3.50      3.07     1.69    2.78     1.69    4.47            1.29    1.29  3.19
2008   880568     2553646     1.00   0.30  3.52    8365393 3.50      3.44     1.41    3.14     2.11    5.26            1.31    1.31  3.95
2009   915790     2655792     1.00   0.31  3.66    9341062 3.50      3.85     1.47    3.53     2.20    5.73            1.34    1.34  4.39
2010   952422     2762024     1.00   0.32  3.81  10476643  3.50      4.31     1.14    3.99     2.67    6.66            1.37    1.37  5.29
2011   990519     2872505     1.00   0.34  3.96  11589071  4.50      6.14     1.19    5.80     2.77    8.57            1.39    1.39  7.18
2012  1030140     2987405     1.00   0.35  4.12  12773732  4.50      6.76     1.03    6.41     3.09    9.50            1.42    1.42  8.08
2013  1071345     3106901     1.00   0.37  4.29  14141758  4.50      7.49     1.07    7.12     3.21   10.34            1.45    1.45  8.89
2014  1114199     3231177     1.00   0.38  4.46  15487367  4.50      8.20     1.11    7.82     3.34   11.16            1.48    1.48  9.68
2015  1158767     3360424     1.00   0.40  4.64  16917999  4.50      8.96     1.16    8.56     3.48   12.04            1.51    1.51 10.53
2016  1205118     3494841     1.00   0.41  4.82  17594719  5.00    10.35      1.21    9.94     3.62   13.55            1.54    1.54 12.02
2017  1253322     3634635     1.00   0.43  5.01  18298508  5.00    10.76      1.25   10.34     3.76   14.10            1.57    1.57 12.53
2018  1303455     3780020     1.00   0.44  5.21  19030448  5.00    11.19      1.30   10.75     3.91   14.66            1.60    1.60 13.06
2019  1355594     3931221     1.00   0.46  5.42  19791666  5.00    11.64      1.36   11.18     4.07   15.25            1.63    1.63 13.61
2020  1409817     4088470     1.00   0.48  5.64  20583332  5.00    12.11      1.41   11.63     4.23   15.86            1.66    1.66 14.19
NPV@10%                                                          $22.31   $16.86 $19.83     $10.78  $30.61  $19.32 $11.15  $27.70  $2.91
EIRR                                                                                                                                 11%




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Lending
              08/1994                       PREPARATION:
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1),
                                            URBAN ENGINEER (1),
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                                            RURAL WATER SUPPLY
                                            SPECIALIST (1), ECONOMIST
                                            (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/1994                       APPRAISAL :
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                            (1), URBAN ENGINEER
                                            (1), OPERATIONS
                                            ANALYST (1),
                                            RURAL WATER SUPPLY
                                            SPECIALIST (1),
                                            (INSTITUTIONAL
                                            CAPACITY BUILDING
                                            SPECIALIST (1),
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
              12/1995                       NEGOTIATIONS
              02/1996                       POST NEGOTIATIONS:
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1),
                                            URBAN ENGINEER (1),
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1),
                                            ECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision

              08/1997                  7    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);          S               S
                                            SR. URBAN ENGINEER (1);
                                            SR. PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                            (1); ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            RURAL W/S SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              03/1998                  4    TEAM LEADER (1); WATER           S               S
                                            SUPPLY ENGINEER (1);
                                            SANITATION ENGINEER (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
              12/1999                  5    TASK LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            CONSULTANT (1); RURAL
                                            WATER SPEC (1); INFRAS
                                            OPERATIONS OFF (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              05/2000                  4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S



                                             - 24 -

                                               FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               WATER SUPPLY SPEC. (1)
               11/2000                     5   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                               INFRA.OPERATIONS OFF. (1);
                                               FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                               RURAL WATER SPECIALIST
                                               (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               04/2001                     4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                               FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               RURAL WATER SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
               09/2001                     5   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               SR. FINANCIAL SPEC. (1); SR.
                                               RURAL WATER SPEC. (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               05/2003                     2   SR. FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);           S    S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)


 ICR
               10/2003 (1)                      TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                                FINANCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                (1), WATER &
                                                SANITATION
                                                SPECIALIST (1)

(1) ICR mission was combined with preappraisal mission for new WSS project

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Lending                                   N/A                      335,271.84
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                               N/A                      725,585.64
  ICR                                       N/A                          25,000
  Total                                                            1,085,857.48




                                                - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The following are the main supporting documents utilized in the preparation of the ICR:
-       Staff Appraisal Document (SAR)
-       Project File Documents (PFD) - March 8, 1996
-       Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
-       Mid-term Review (MTR)
-       Aide Memoires
-       Back to office reports
-       Project status reports
-       Completion reports
-       OTU completion reports
-       Various workshop outputs
-       Various documents on consultancy, construction and, supply and procurement
-       Design and engineering documents
-       Capacity building study documents
-       Borrowers Comments
-       Bank staff Comments




                                                     - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's Contribution]

                                             Borrower's contribution

                                    Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
                        Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation Project (WSDRP)
                                                Credit No. 2842-ET
1.0      INTRODUCTION

Government of Ethiopia and the World Bank (IDA) signed agreement (CR-2842 ET) on May 15, 1996 to improve
the water services in rural communities and urban centers of Ethiopia through:
·        rehabilitating and expanding facilities in the 25 towns,
·        strengthening regional and zonal water bureaus, water services units,
·        demonstrating community based management

2.0      STATEMENT /EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES

         2.1 Development Objective: Sustainable access to adequate and safe water services.

         2.2 Project Objective

The main objectives of the project are to ensure long-term viability of water supply and sanitation operations in
line with the government's national water resources development policy; finally to improve the health and
productivity of the population.

         To achieve these objectives:
·        Capacity building of the regional administrations, water supply and sanitation schemes and rural water
supply operations,
·        Formulation of development strategies to ensure long-term financial and managerial viability of water
supply operations, establishments sound investment planning by the regional administrations and water supply
agencies,
·        Medium and short-term physical rehabilitation, augmentation and establishment of urban water supply
and sanitation schemes in war affected and the most deficient regions.

         2.3 Evaluation of Objective

         Realism and Importance of Objective

The physical need in water supply and sanitation sector is overwhelming. Access to sufficient and safe water
supply, both in urban centers and rural communities is very limited. Even the existing schemes are suffering from
low production level and high leakage of water. From the rural water supply schemes, water source for the major
portion of the population, about 30 percent are not functional. This is due to lack of maintenance. The water
quality is also poor.

The achievement of sector objective would greatly contributes to the alleviation of poverty, the primary
development objective for the country, through better health and higher productivity of the population, capacity
development, income and employment generation and private sector development.


         3         ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS

Despite continued implementation delays caused mostly by procurement and contracting difficulties, the project
has achieved the development objectives. Urban Water Supply and Sanitation has improved in 22 towns and rural



                                                        - 29 -

water supply and sanitation in 11 districts, capacity of institutes involved in the water sector has been improved at
all levels federal, regional, woreda, community, town water boards and utility staff prevail sector consultants and
contractors.

The WSDR project has helped to inform the policy and strategy formulation process, has demonstrated good
practices in both urban and rural water supply and sanitation by strengthening the capacity of the regions at all
levels in organization and management, promotion of the stake holders of the grass root level, improve efficiency
and financial sustainability and cost recovery for both urban and rural water systems, improving tariffs operational
efficiency customer service and prevailing on-the-job training to less experienced people.

3.1.       Institutional Capacity Building

A) Water supply sector capacity building

Of the total population only about 31 percent has access to safe water; from this figure we can see majority of the
population has no access to safe water. Besides the existing water supply services are operating well below capacity
due to maintenance problem and also due to their understaffedness. This clearly shows the need for major change
in capacity. The decentralization policy of the Government of Ethiopia is being reflected in the water resources
management policy. Regional Governments are issuing legislations for the establishment of water boards and water
committees. The water boards have ownership and management autonomy. Therefore, building the capacity of the
public and private sector which involved in the water supply and sanitation sector is the only applicable alternative.

This component consists of:
i) Capacity building studies for regional administrations; studies under this sub-component consists organizational
management study, financial management study, urban water technical management study, base line study, and
asset valuation and tariff study.

These studies were carried out by three local consultants; namely Metaferia Consulting Engineers, Tropics
Consulting Engineers and BIK Engineering. Reports of the studies were also produced. Trainings were also
delivered for the personnel of the regional water bureaus and staffs of town water supply services based on the
study results. Water boards were established almost in all the project towns except two towns in Somali Region
.The water boards have full autonomy in the management, operation and maintenance of their town water supply
facilities. This really has appreciable contribution on the sustainability of the water supply facilities.

ii) At the ministry of water resources level

Ethiopian water sector strategy was prepared to translate the provisions of the clauses of Ethiopian Water
Resources Management Policy in to practice. In addition to this the ministry has laid local/wide area network for
the development of centralized water supply data compilation and information system.

iii)To facilitate the capacity building ,the regional water bureaus were provided equipment like service rigs, mobile
workshops and vehicles. This significantly contributes the move towards to achievement of the sector objectives; as
this equipment contributes their share for the sustainability of the existing schemes.

B) Rural Water Supply Pilot Schemes

The main objectives of this component are to explore how community involvement, particularly managements of
completed schemes can improve cost efficiency and long term sustainability, give technical assistance and
miscellaneous equipment to create a rural water supply forum for exchange and dissemination of experiences
among the government, donors, NGOs and communities, centrally and in each region; and construct pilot schemes
for testing and application of the detailed strategies.

The studies to implement the pilot schemes of ten woredas in three regions were carried out by three consultants,
namely Abay, Finn and Tropics consulting engineers. The three regions are Amahara, Oromia and SNNP regions.


                                                         - 30 -

The consultants made inventory of schemes and field investigation; prepare reports and workshop on the proposed
options, community based management system. Training materials on project proposal, operation and
maintenance, and design of schemes including preparing job description were prepared. Trainings were delivered
for the established water committees on CBM (community based management ) and also pump and generator
maintenance, construction of tapping and hand dug wells to potential service providers, and artisans. In addition to
this, to ensure the sustainability of the schemes required equipment and tools were provided based on the
inventories earlier made. Training on sanitation and hygiene was also given for the communities. To transfer
knowledge to other woredas the officials of regions, zones, and woredas were given training on how to facilitate
and be good management advisor. Finally monitoring and evaluation was conducted how the communities are
performing and final report was prepared.


3.2. Feasibility Studies, Engineering Design and Immediate Rehabilitation for the Project Towns

A) Water Supply Scheme Feasibility and Engineering Design

The aim of this component was to provide improved water supply for the 25 towns by rehabilitating and expanding
the existing facilities to the year 2005 requirement and also designing the system to 2025 requirement through
stage construction.

Under this component studies were carried out to identify water supply systems which need immediate
rehabilitation in the project towns by three foreign and three local consultants. Environmental impact assessments
and engineering design were carried out for future expansion of the water supply schemes.

Civil Constructions

Drilling of new boreholes was carried out by regional water bureaus. However, it took longer time than anticipated
to complete in study for the surveying and drilling works .Due to the insufficiency of the source survey some of the
proposed well sites were changed. This in turn delayed the civil construction. Most of the towns have almost
completed the civil construction. The civil construction includes lying of transmission and distribution pipes,
construction of reservoirs, operation buildings, booster pump stations, temporary engineers' offices, pipe shades
e.t.c. There are three towns; namely Gambella, Kibre Mengist, and Kebridehar, whose civil construction recently
started .The reason for the delay of construction of Gambella and Kibre Mengist is due to source problem.
Similarly the reason for the Kebridehar is source; boreholes were not drilled in time and also the availability of
ample water supply was not confirmed too.

B) Supply of pipes and fittings, and supply and installation of electro-mechanical equipment

Based on the procurement procedures of the World Bank three local agents and four foreign suppliers were selected
among the bidders for the supply of pipes and fittings. Similarly three firms were selected for the supply and
installation of electro-mechanical equipment; the firms are Yadot Business Group, Watt International and
Simonazzi Fratelli. Approximately 10 percent extra quantities of uPVC and G.S. pipes and fittings were ordered to
cover shortfalls in some towns. As tried to mention earlier the changes in source locations brought new
requirements and also shortage in pipes and fittings. The demand for DCI pipes and fittings was more than the
allowable range of variation order. Finally additional pipes were requested and supplied after lengthy
correspondences with the suppliers and The World Bank. Generally speaking the supply of pipes, fittings and
electro-mechanical equipment are completed.

The supply of electro-mechanical equipment is also completed. However, the installation work is still underway in
some towns. This is due to the incompleteness of the civil construction.

C) Supervision Services for Immediate Rehabilitation Works

The supervision services of the civil constructions and supply and installation of electro-mechanical equipment



                                                         - 31 -

were performed by three local consultants, namely Metaferia Consulting Engineers, Tropics Consulting Engineers
and Water Works Design and Supervision Enterprise.

4.0       SUSTAINABILITY

Capacity of institutions involved in the water sector has been improved at all levels: federal, regional, Woreda
community, town water boards and utility staff private sector consultants and contractors.

All regions have adopted proclamation for the establishment of autonomous board management and appointed
board member.

The WSDR project has helped to inform the policy and strategy formulation process.

The WSDR project office believes that Capacity building has a dynamic nature, therefore, it has to get close
follow-up to ascertain its sustainability. Thus, it needs a close follows-up. There shall be one section in the
regional water bureaus, even at ministry level which can assist the towns to perform in accordance to the out put of
the studies.

5.0       BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

5.1 Borrower's Performance

Even though implementation capacity of the institutions involved in this project and complication of the project
hampered from achieving its goal in time, the overall borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.

It has taken important decision on the formulation of water boards for the project towns. Thus, it is a very good
step to the water supply services in order to make them financially autonomous. According to our policy the urban
water supply units need to be fully cost recovery.

Government of Ethiopia has developed its own water resource policy in its history. In addition to this strategy and
sector development program are also at the completion stage.

5.2 Bank's Performance

The over all bank's performance is also rated satisfactory. The supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The mission
has internalized the project. Even though there was sometimes delays in giving `No Objection' on procurements
and effecting payments the bank has lead the project towards success through regular and close follow up. The
bank has attempted to its best in lending, therefore, lending can be rated as satisfactory.


6.0 MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT AND LESSON LEARNED

6.1 Major Factors Affecting the Project

As the project towns are almost in all regions, and capacity difference in the implementation the project required
longer period to complete than expected. The other reason for the project being late are the time consuming
regulations of The World Bank to approve requests, the deficiency in human resource (skilled human resource) and
equipment of local contractors, and also the extended schedule for the delivery of pipes and fittings and equipment.

In addition to the above the following are also problems encountered in the implementation of the project:

·        Implementation started without adequate preparation,
·        The time allocated for immediate rehabilitation studies was very short,




                                                         - 32 -

·        Delay in foreign procurement,
·        Procurement for regional capacity building were not in accordance with the regions demand,
·        Lack of skilled /professional staff for the implementation of the project,
·        Delay in surveying and drilling of boreholes,
·        Delay in procurement for additional pipes and fittings,
·        Change in water sources/locations,
·        Delay in responses in issues which require quick reply from some regional water bureaus,
·        Frequent changes of heads of water bureaus, department heads etc.
·        Delay from the world bank for NO OBJECTION, special commitment and release of approved money,
·        Delay in establishment of town water boards and fixing water tariff,
·        Budgets were not allocated for some services like port clearing service,
·        Some regions do not allocate budget in time,

6.2      Lesson Learned

·        Adequate preparation is required before commencing implementation of any project; this is to utilize the
available resource/ fund effectively. For our case the main reason for the delay of the project is insufficient
preparation in planning and implementation of the project.
·        The rules and procedures of the World Bank are not flexible to conditions.
·        For regions / towns with a wide gap in their capacities centralized management system of a project is not a
good option. The pace of the project is hampered by the slowest region / town. Therefore, based on the
socio-economic conditions of the project regions / towns decentralized management system is preferable.
·        Promotion of the urban water supply services from subsidized services to autonomous and financially
self-dependent has significant contribution for the sustainability of the services. Likewise involvement of private
sectors, NGOs, and the communities in rural water supply schemes management has very good impact for their
sustainability.
·        Different approach has to be adopted for the pastoralist regions.




Addis Ababa Water Supply component
The Addis Ababa component was executed by the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA). The
following contribution for the ICR is AAWSA's perspective of the project evaluation report.

1.       Assessment of Project Objectives


         1.1      The main objectives of the credit agreement of 2842 ET for Addis Ababa Water &

         Sewerage Authority are the following:

a)       Updating of the organizational and management study, management information study, and tariff study
which have been carried out for AAWSA.
b)       Training of personnel of AAWSA including: (i) training of grass-root working level staff, mid-level
management and top management; (ii) training in general management and specific management skills, and (iii)
professional training including budget planning and preparation, legal management, safety training, pollution
control and accounting and auditing.

c)       Provision of technical advisory services to assist AAWSA in carrying out the recommendations of the
organizational management, the management information and the tariff studies referred to in paragraph (a) above.

d)       Acquisition of water meters, vehicles, mobile workshop and miscellaneous equipment to assist AAWSA in
improving its maintenance and operational capacity and implementing the new water and sewerage tariffs.




                                                         - 33 -

e)        Preparation of building works designs for the construction of branch offices.

f)        Upgrading of AAWSA's branch network including construction of six new branch offices and six storage
facilities for AAWSA.

                    To achieve the above objectives the following listed activities were included:

1.        Category I (works)
-         Construction of five branch offices

2.        Category III (Consultancy Service & Training)
-         Implementation of O & M & MIS study,
-         Implementation of study of tariff,
-         Design & supervision of branch offices,
-         T.A service for management, operation & training for electrical & mechanical, workshop,
-         T.A for accounting system software procurement implementing & monitoring and
-         Training


3.        Category II(Goods)
-         Computer equipment,
-         Installation of LAN. network,
-         Pickup 4wd double cab,
-         Truck mounted crane,
-         Dump Truck,
-         Excavator/Trencher,
-         Forklift tractor,
-         Mobile workshop,
-         Spare parts for existing fleet of Mitsubishi,
-         Billing software,
-         Accounting system software and
-         Miscellaneous tools & workshop equipments

                    Out of the above listed activities, the design supervision & construction of the branch offices are
                    financed by local government, the rest are covered by the Bank's credit.

                    The design of branch offices are completed but out of the five offices only two are constructed due
                    to land acquisition problem. This problem is not yet solved except for the third one.

                    All the activities planned under the consultancy service & training are successfully completed.
                    But the T.A. for accounting system software was terminated due to the expiration of the grant
                    agreement when the procurement of accounting system software was at tendering stage.
                    Similarly even though the T.A. for management, operation & training for electrical &
                    mechanical workshop was completed, procurement of the tools & equipment could not be
                    effected as the grant agreement has expired.

                    All the goods listed in Category II are processed except the ones mentioned in the above
                    paragraph.

                    The projects are summarized in Table ­ 1.

2.        AAWSA's performance during implementation of the project.

          It can be clearly seen that most of the activities which were planned at the initial stage are implemented



                                                          - 34 -

    and AAWSA has benefited a lot to improve its service for the residents of Addis Ababa. It is because of
    good relation and efficient work flow between the client, the Bank's personnel and the employed
    consultants & suppliers that the activities are completed within the credit agreement time frame & budget
    allocated.

    However, it is to be mentioned that some of the activities that were not completed are because of the delay
    in tendering which could have been started earlier like the study & implementation of tariff.

    In general, AAWSA has learned a lot from both its achievement and failure.        Some of the lessons are
    familiarization with the World Bank procurement procedure and handling of projects delivered by
    international consultants.

3.  Performance of the Bank

    As an implementing agency, AAWSA appreciate the Bank's effort for every action starting from the
    appraisal stage up to implementation including professional advice and assistance in all processes.

    We would like to indicate that a better interaction b/n the world Bank's personnel & AAWSA is needed
    for better achievement of future projects. In addition, quick decision are still needed when an approval
    request is forwarded to the World Bank.




                                                    - 35 -

Table 1.         List of Activities for the Water Supply Development and
                            Rehabilitation Project
No        Description      No. of Units      Allocated Amount Actual expenses,     Remarks
                                            USD* X 1000 (IDA)      USD
1     Computer                    L.S             275.0                           Completed
      equipment                                                     257,460.63
2     Installation of LAN         L.S              25.0                           Completed
      network                                                                -
3     Pickup 4WD                  15              311.0                           Completed
      double cab                                                    310,255.84
4     Truck mounted                2              300.0                           Completed,
      crane                                                         162,076.36 currency is EURO
5     Dump truck                   1               86.0                           Completed
                                                                     85,181.92
6     Excavator/Trenche            1               92.0                           Completed
      r                                                              91,661.00
7     Forklift tractor             1               55.0                           Completed,
                                                                     49,401.35 currency in GBP
8     Mobile workshop              1              156.0                           Completed,
                                                                    143,298.60 currency is EURO
9     Spare parts for the         L.S              10.0                           Completed
      existing fleet of                                               9,930.63
      Mitsubishi
10    Billing software for        L.S             350.0                           Completed,
      implementing                                                  331,687.80 currency is Birr
      study of tariff
11    Accounting system           L.S             456.0                        Not implemented
12    Miscellaneous               L.S              80.0                        Not implemented
      tools and
      workshop
      equipment
         SUB TOTAL                               2196.0        $ 1,440,954.14

                     Category III Consultancy Services and Training
13    Implementation of           L.S             445.0                           Completed
      O&M and MIS                                                   366,492.36
      study
14    Implementation of           L.S             1250.0                          Completed
      study of tariff                                               860,145.54
15    TA service                  L.S             170.0                           Completed
      contract:                                                     352,683.00
      management,
      operation and
      training for
      Elc./Mech.
      Workshop service
      in AAWSA
16    TA for accounting           L.S             100.0                           Completed
      system software                                               100,000.00
      procurement and
      implantation
      monitoring
17    Training                    L.S             237.0                            Completed
                                                                    277,753.31



                                         - 36 -

            SUB TOTAL           2202.0    $ 1,957,074.21

Grand Total                        $
                             3,398,028.35




                         - 37 -

- 38 -

