Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7250-ME
 
Loan Agreement
 
(State Judicial Modernization Supporting Access to Justice Project)
 
between
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
and
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
 
Dated November 21, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7250-ME
 
LOAN AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO 
NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 (B) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, the Guarantor has 
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the 
Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(C) 
the Bank has relied on the representations and opinion (
Oficio 
No. 
305.VII-092/2004 dated April 23, 2004) issued
 
by
the 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
of
the 
Guarantor’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, confirming that the Project has 
been designed and will be carried out in a manner consistent with the provisions of Art. 
117 (vii) of the Guarantor’s Federal Constitution (
Constitución Política de los Estados 
Unidos Mexicanos
); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-2-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01 (8) is modified to read as follows:  
 “Conversion Date” means, in respect of a Conversion other than a Conversion 
under Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement, the Interest Payment Date (or, in the 
case of a Currency Conversion of an unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, such 
other date as the Bank shall determine) on which the Conversion enters into 
effect, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines and, in respect of a 
Conversion under Section 2.10 (Automatic Currency Conversion) the date of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the amount in respect of which the 
Conversion has been requested.” 
(b) 
Section 2.01 (47) (c) is modified to read as follows: 
“upon a Currency Conversion to an approved Currency of a withdrawn amount 
of the Loan that shall accrue interest at a variable rate during the Conversion 
Period, the variable rate of interest applicable to such amount shall be equal to 
either: (i) the sum of (A) LIBOR, or such other base rate as may be agreed by the 
Borrower and the Bank, in respect of said Approved Currency; plus (B) the 
spread to LIBOR or to such other base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the 
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
component of the Screen Rate.” 
(c) 
The text in Section 5.01 which reads: “(a) an amount
 
of
expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)” is deleted in its 
entirety
.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-3-
(a) 
“AOP” means a consolidated annual operating plan referred to in Part 
A.3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b) “BANOBRAS” 
means 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos
,
S.N.C., one of the Guara
ntor’s development banks, established and operating pursuant to 
the provisions of its Organic Law (as hereinafter defined), and any of its successor or 
successors thereto; 
(c) 
“CCS” means the committee referred to in Part B.3 (a) (i) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“COMPRANET” means the Guarantor’s electronic public bidding 
system; 
 (e) 
“Credit” means 
Crédito,
 any of the credits made or proposed to be made 
by the Borrower, out of the  Credit
 
Program to a Participating State (as hereinafter 
defined);  
(f) 
“Credit Agreement” means
 Contrato de Apertura de Crédito Simple
,
any 
of the agreements referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agremeent, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Credit Agreement; 
 (g) 
“Credit Program” means 
Programa de Crédito para la Modernización 
del Sector Justicia a Nivel Estatal;
 the Borrower’s judicial modernization credit program, 
including terms, conditions and other requirements for the provision of financing to 
Participating States (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(h) 
“Eligibility Criteria” means the financial and technical criteria to be used 
by the Borrower in the selection of States (as hereinafter defined) to participate in the 
Project, as set forth in Annex B to the Implementation Letter (as hereinafter defined);  
(i) 
“External Advisory Group” means the advisory group referred to in Part 
B. 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(j) “Finance 
Secretariat” 
means 
Secretaría de Finanzas,
 the finance 
department of the State Executive (as hereinafter defined) of a participating State; 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each financial 
monitoring report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
Page  5
-4-
 (l) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower to the Bank containing: (i) the Monitoring Indicators (as hereinafter defined); 
and (ii) the Eligibility Criteria; 
(m) 
“Judicial Modernization Plan” means a document issued by the President 
of the Supreme Court in a Participating State (as hereinafter defined) detailing the 
judicial programs and activities proposed for the modernization of justice services in such 
State (as hereinafter defined), and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Judicial Modernization Plan; 
 (n) 
“Judiciary” 
means 
Poder Judicial
,
the judicial branch of a Participating 
State (as hereinafter defined);  
(o) 
“Letter of Intent” means
 Carta de Intención,
 a document sent by a State 
(as hereinafter defined) to the Borrower, expressing the State’s intention to obtain 
financing from the Borrower under the Credit Program, in accordance with the terms of 
the 
Normatividad 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(p) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators to be used in monitoring 
and evaluating the implementation of the Project, including the Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined) as set forth in Annex A to the Implementation Letter; 
(q) “NCSC” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Tribunales Superiores de Justicia 
A.C., 
the national commission of state courts (comprising representatives of the Supreme 
Courts of Justice at the state-level), established and operating as a civil association 
governed by Mexican public law, pursuant to the provisions of its Bylaws, as amended on 
May, 2002; 
(r) 
 “
Normatividad
”
means 
 Normatividad Aplicable en Materia de Deuda 
Pública
,
the laws and regulations governing the legal and financial requirements to be 
met by a State (as hereinafter defined) to apply for, and receive financing from the Credit 
Program; 
(s) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Organic Law” means 
Ley Orgánica de Banco Nacional de Obras y 
Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.,
 the Guarantor’s law setting forth the mandate, organization 
and functions of BANOBRAS and providing the basic legal framework for its legal 
responsibilities as Project executing agency, dated January 20, 1986, and published in the 
Guarantor’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación)
 on January 20, 1986, as 
Page  6
-5-
amended by Decree issued by the Guarantor’s Congress on April 30, 2002, and published 
in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on June 24, 2002;  
(u) 
“Participating State” means a State (as hereinafter defined) which has 
met the Eligibility Criteria and has been approved by the Borrower to participate in the 
Project Credit Program; 
(v) 
“PCU” means the unit to be established in each Participating State 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(w) “
peso”
 or in plural “
pesos
”
means the lawful currency of the Guarantor; 
(x) 
“Procurement Law” means: (a) the 
Ley de Adquisiciones, 
Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público
,
published in the Guarantor’s Official 
Gazette on January 4, 2000, as amended to the date of this Agreement; (b) the 
Reglamento de la Ley de Adquisiciones, Arre
ndamientos y Servicios del Sector Público
,
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on August 20, 2001, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement; (c) the 
Ley de Obras Públicas y Servicios Relacionados con las 
mismas
,
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on January 4, 2000, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement; and (d) the 
Reglamento de la Ley de de Obras Públicas y 
Servicios Relacionados con las mismas
,
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on 
August 20, 2001, as amended to the date of this Agreement;  
(y) 
“Procurement of Goods Law” means the 
Ley de Adquisiciones, 
Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público 
published in the Guarantor’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación)
 on January 4, 2000, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement and its related regulations (
Reglamento de la Ley de Adquisiciones, 
Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público)
 published in the Guarantor’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación)
 on August 20, 2001, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
 
(z) 
“Procurement of Works Law” means the 
Ley de Obras Públicas y 
Servicios Relacionados con las Mismas 
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial de la Federación)
 on January 4, 2000, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, and its related regulations (
Reglamento de la Ley de Obras Públicas y 
Servicios Relacionados con las Mismas)
 published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial de la Federación)
 on August 20, 2001, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
 
(aa) 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan, to be provided to the 
Bank, prior to the Effective Date, taking into account the expected procurement needs of 
the Participating States under the Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), covering the initial 
Page  7
-6-
18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated 
every year, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) to this Agreement, to 
cover the succeeding 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(cc) 
“State” means any of the Guarantor’s thirty-one political subdivisions  
(
Estado
)
and the Federal District (
Distrito Federal
); 
(dd) 
“State Executive” means 
Poder
 
Ejecutivo
,
the executive branch of a 
Participating State; 
(ee) “State 
Legislature” 
means 
Congreso
 
Estatal
,
the legislative branch of a 
Participating State; 
(ff) 
“State Organic Law” means 
Ley Orgánica del Poder Judicial del Estado
,
the law issued by the State Legislature setting forth the organization, roles and 
responsibilities of the Judiciary; 
(gg) 
“Subproject” means any of the Judicial Modernization Plans referred to 
in Parts A, B, C, D, and E.1 of the Project; 
(hh) 
“Subproject Agreements” means, collectively, the legal documentation to 
be executed by a Participating State in order to receive a Credit from the Borrower, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the Letter of Intent, Credit Agreement, and Transfer Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined); 
 
(ii) 
“Subproject Investment Activity” means any of the activities included in 
a
Judicial Modernization Plan; and 
(jj) 
“Transfer Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02. 
(b) of this Agreement, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Transfer Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-7-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 and 2.10 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
(a) 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) by the Borrower in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) any premium in respect of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.  
(b) 
 The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
pesos 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2010 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. Such fee shall be payable not later 
than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
Page  9
-8-
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 1, and August 1, in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  10
-9-
Section 2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, any amount 
withdrawn from the Loan Account shall be converted from Dollars into 
pesos
 for the full 
maturity of such amount with effect from the Conversion Date and shall be carried out in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Currency Conversion Letter.  
Section 2.11. 
The 
Director
 
de Finanzas 
of
BANOBRAS and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall: (i) carry 
out Part E.2 of the Project, in consultation with the NCSC, as needed (for Part E.2 (a) of 
the Project); (ii) cause the Participating States to carry out their respective activities under 
the Project, including the Subprojects, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, banking, financial, technical, auditing, 
participatory, environmental and social standards and practices (including gender, youth 
and indigenous sensitive practices), on the part of both the Borrower and the Participating 
States; and (iii) provide, or cause the Participating States to provide, in a timely manner 
and as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, 
including the Subprojects, all with due regard  to the provisions of the 
Normatividad
 
and 
the State Organic Law of the Participating States. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out Part E.2 of the Project; and (ii) cause the Participating States to carry out  their 
respective activities under Project, including the Subprojects, all in accordance with the 
provisions of  the Implementation Letter, the Operational Manual and the provisions set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
lend the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating States under the 
particular terms and conditions of an agreement (the Credit Agreement), to be entered 
into between the Borrower and a Participating State, pursuant to contractual provisions, 
Page  11
-10-
which shall have been approved by the Bank as set forth in the Operational Manual, 
including,
 inter alia
,
the terms detailed in Part A. 2. (d) (i) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and 
 (b) 
cause each Participating State to transfer to the Judiciary the proceeds 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section under an agreement (the Transfer Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Participating State and the Judiciary, pursuant to 
contractual provisions, which shall have been approved by the Bank, reflecting the 
Normatividad
,
including, 
inter alia
 the provisions set forth in the Operational Manual, 
and the terms detailed in Part A.2. (d) (ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower: (i) shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Credit Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, including the Subprojects, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Credit Agreements; and (ii) shall cause the 
Participating States to exercise their rights and comply with their respective obligations 
under the Credit Agreements and the Transfer Agreements, in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, 
including the Subprojects, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall cause the 
Participating States not to assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the respective 
Credit Agreements and the Transfer Agreements. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank in case of an event of 
noncompliance by any of the Participating States with the terms and conditions of its 
respective Credit Agreement or Transfer Agreement. 
(e) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the agreements referred to in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 Section 3.03. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project, under the Credit 
Program, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 (b) 
The Borrower shall, in close consultation with the Participating States, 
update the Procurement Plan in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the 
date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval.  
Page  12
-11-
Section 3.04. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project, including the Subprojects; and  
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, 
including the Subprojects (regardless of whether said expenditures are financed with 
Loan proceeds or with any other sources of financing).  
(b)  
The Borrower (for the purposes of the provisions of Part A.2. (d) (i) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement), shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
submit to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
Page  13
-12-
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as well as for all 
expenditures financed from sources other than Loan proceeds, the Borrower (for the 
purposes of Part A.2. (d) (i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement), shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing  such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) 
referred to paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 
4.02.  (a) 
Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in Part C.1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare, and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, including the 
Subprojects, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, 
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, including 
the Subprojects, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned Project implementations; and  
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, including 
the Subprojects, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report. 
Page  14
-13-
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Organic Law or the State Organic Law of any of the Participating 
States, or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived or not enforced in such manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower or any of the Participating States to carry 
out any of their respective obligations under this Agreement, or the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out its obligations under the Credit Program.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall have failed to enforce its legal remedies under any of 
the Credit Agreements, or a situation shall have arisen so as to materially and adversely 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of a Participating State to carry out any of its 
obligations under the Credit Agreement.  
(c) 
Any authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken any action concerning 
the Judiciary in any of the Participating States that would materially and adversely affect, 
in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of such Judiciary to carry out its Judicial 
Modernization Plan. 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
Page  15
-14-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual shall have been approved by the Bank;  
(b) 
that the Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering the initial 
18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation has been furnished by the 
Borrower to the Bank; and 
(c) 
that the Credit Program, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
approved by the Borrower. 
Section 6.02. 
The date February 20, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the 
 
Subdirector de Planeación y Programación 
of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  16
-15-
Cable address:   
 
Telex:    
 
Facsimile:  
 
INTBAFRAD    
 
248423 (MCI); or  
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C.  
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Avenida Javier Barros Sierra 515, piso 8
o
Colonia Lomas de Santa Fé, 
Delegación Alvaro Obregón 
México, D.F. 01219 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-5270-1633 
Page  17
-16-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Mexico City, United States of Mexico, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By/s/ Isabel Guerrero 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y   
 SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
By
/s/ Verónica Baranda Sepúlveda 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Page  18
-17-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated  
     % of 
 
(expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
Category
US Dollars)
To be Financed
(1) Works under Subprojects 
8,920,000 
 
70% 
 
(2) Goods under Subprojects 
11,000,000 
 
86% of local  
 
expenditures and 
 
100%
of foreign 
expenditures  
 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
services 
  6,010,000 
 83% 
   
 (including 
audits) 
 under 
Subprojects 
 
 
 
 
 
(4) Training under Subprojects 
4,070,000 
 
83% 
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate Caps  
 - 0 - 
 
Amount due under  
 
and
 
Interest Rate Collars
 
Section 2.09 (c) of  
 
This Agreement 
 
___________ 
 
    
 
TOTAL: 30,000,000 
 
 
=========== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than for 
consultants’ services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities 
and other expenditures related to the organization of training events; and (iii) local and 
foreign transportation costs and related subsistence expenses for judges and judicial 
personnel selected to participate in training events which shall have been included in 
Page  19
-18-
Subprojects approved by the Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of the Operational 
Manual; 
(b) 
the term “Works” means expenditures incurred by the Judiciary in any of 
the Participating States for civil works which shall have been included in Subprojects 
approved by the Borrower: (i) required for construction of new court infrastructure and 
buildings; and refurbishing, remodeling or rehabilitating  existing court infrastructure and 
buildings; (ii) to be carried out in sites, buildings and infrastructure owned by, and legally 
titled to the Judiciary (at the time of initiating the procurement procedure to build the 
corresponding civil works); (iii) which do not require the acquisition or occupation of 
new land, buildings or infrastructure, and therefore, do not cause the involuntary 
resettlement of owners, tenants or occupants of such land, buildings or infrastructure; and 
(iv) procured in accordance with contracts awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)   
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(d) 
the term “ local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, no withdrawals 
shall be made: 
(a) 
 in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures up to one year before that date but after May 3, 2004;   
(b)  
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, in respect of a 
Participating State, unless the Bank has been furnished with: (i) documentary evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, confirming that the respective Subproject Agreements have been 
executed by the Borrower and the respective Participating State, and the Participating 
State and the Judiciary, respectively; and (ii) the Borrower and the Participating State 
have issued separate legal opinions to the Bank, issued by counsel acceptable to the 
Bank, indicating that the Subproject Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Participating State, and the 
Participating State and the Judiciary, and are legally binding upon, the Borrower, the 
Page  20
-19-
Participating State and the Judiciary, in accordance with the terms of the Subproject 
Agreements; and 
(c) 
any expenditures under any category in the table in paragraph 1 above, 
unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
4.  
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: contracts for works, goods, 
training, and consultants’ services required for the Project, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  21
-20-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower with the implementation of 
its judicial modernization credit program by supporting the efforts of the Participating 
States to: (a) strengthen justice sector institutions and promote cultural change and 
knowledge sharing among such institutions and with civil society; (b) develop efficient 
and effective judicial services; (c) increase judicial transparency; (d) enhance access to 
justice for the poor and disadvantaged populations of the Participating States; and (e) 
disseminate good practices and learning-by-doing strategies within and among 
Participating States; and promote efficient monitoring and evaluation procedures, 
including consultation with Project stakeholders. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve such objective. 
Part A
:
Strengthening Institutional Capabilities, Culture and Knowledge
The carrying out of Judicial Modernization Plans, comprising a series of 
investment activities, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
 The carrying out of studies and institutional assessments of the Judiciaries. 
2
The development and implementation of systems and action programs to 
improve the Judiciaries’ institutional capabilities in critical areas, 
inter alia
,
strategic 
planning, budget programming, performance evaluation, user satisfaction, judicial 
organization, technology, institutional innovation, social communication, evaluation of 
public feedback, and civil society participation in the judicial modernization process. 
3.  
The development and implementation of: (a) programs aimed at promoting 
cultural change within the Judiciary and achieving
 
the improvement of service delivery, 
human resource development, leadership and change management strategies; and (b) 
public outreach and educational campaigns to promote a change of perception of, and 
attitude regarding the Judiciary. 
4. 
The carrying out of a knowledge sharing program for judges and judicial 
personnel, members of public sector institutions, universities and research institutions to 
disseminate the objectives and contents of the judicial modernization process, including: 
(a) an international exchange program for judges and judicial operators; (b) a workshop 
and seminar program on judicial reform topics; and (c) a publication program.
 
Page  22
-21-
Part B
:
Efficiency and Effectiveness of Judicial Services
The carrying out of Judicial Modernization Plans, comprising a series of 
investment activities, including, 
inter alia
:
1.  
The carrying out of studies and institutional assessments of the institutional 
efficiency and effectiveness of the Judiciaries in, 
inter alia
,
the following areas: court 
procedures and regulations governing the jurisdictional function; access to justice for 
different social groups; alternative dispute resolution mechanisms; demand for judicial 
services among the population; cost of judicial services; judicial federalism; and judicial 
performance measurement and enforcement of judicial resolutions. 
 
2.  
The development and implementation of model procedures and programs for the 
improvement of the managerial, procedural and organizational capabilities of the 
Judiciaries, including,
 inter alia
,
case backlog reduction and improved case distribution 
programs.
 
3.  
The development and implementation of professional development and judicial 
career systems, including a performance evaluation for judicial and administrative 
personnel, a comparative study of salary structures, an incentive system and a retirement 
plan for judicial personnel, including social security benefits. 
 
4. 
 
The systematization and automation of jurisdictional and administrative 
procedures, including the development and implementation of integrated case 
management and documentation systems and administration, finance and human resource 
systems. 
5.  
The establishment and operation of support units within the Judiciaries for the 
carrying out of training, continuing education and research activities for judicial and 
administrative personnel, including, 
inter alia,
 the development of pilot virtual 
classrooms, virtual libraries and judicial documentation centers. 
6.  
The provision of infrastructure and equipment for, 
inter alia
,
the operation of 
information technology systems, the carrying out of civil works for the construction of 
new, and refurbishing, remodeling and rehabilitation of existing court and judicial 
buildings and the installation of networks and communication platforms. 
Page  23
-22-
Part C
:
Increasing Judicial Transparency
The carrying out of Judicial Modernization Plans, comprising a series of 
investment activities, including, 
inter alia
:
1.  
The carrying out of studies and institutional assessments of the Judiciaries aimed 
at promoting greater judicial transparency in critical areas such as accountability 
mechanisms, judicial ethics, disciplinary system, access to information and anti-
corruption measures. 
2. 
The creation of new, or the strengthening of existing organizational units 
responsible for the dissemination of information about jurisdictional and administrative 
procedures, and for the management of judicial documentation to support judges and 
judicial operators, including the establishment of judicial information and documentation 
centers and information and citizen orientation offices; the carrying out of outreach 
campaigns to provide information about the functioning and structure of the judicial 
system; and the development of annual performance reports by the Judiciaries including 
relevant auxiliary institutions.  
3. 
The development and implementation of discipline and accountability 
mechanisms, including, 
inter alia
,
the implementation of an oversight, investigation and 
discipline system for judicial operators, the development of a judicial code of ethics and a 
system to file
 
complaints against judicial operators,
 
the design and implementation of 
accountability mechanisms for judicial personnel, and improved access to information 
systems. 
4.  
The organization and implementation of a program of events aimed at 
disseminating the benefits of enhanced transparency of judicial processes, such as, the 
strengthening of oral trials. 
Part D
:
Strengthening of Access to Justice for all Users
The carrying out of Judicial Modernization Plans, comprising a series of 
investment activities, including, 
inter alia
:
1.  
The carrying out of studies and institutional assessments of the Judiciaries for the 
strengthening of access to justice for the public at large, with special emphasis on the 
poor and disadvantaged populations of the Participating States. 
2.  
The development and implementation of special programs to improve access to 
justice for women, minors, indigenous peoples and other poor and socially disadvantaged 
Page  24
-23-
users of the judicial services and small entrepreneurs, including,
 inter alia
:
(a) outreach 
events to provide citizens with a greater understanding of the judicial branch, of their 
rights and responsibilities, and help judges to gain a greater understanding of the realities 
of their social context; (b) school orientation and education programs for children and 
adolescents to gain a greater understanding of justice administration; and (c) community 
outreach seminars and workshops on gender-based violence, promoting a gender 
dimension of judicial systems, and access to justice for indigenous populations. 
3.  
The creation of new, or the strengthening of existing, alternative dispute 
resolution institutional mechanisms, including the provision of training of skilled 
personnel, materials and equipment and existing infrastructure rehabilitation, and the 
carrying out of awareness-raising and educational campaigns.  
4. 
 
The development and implementation of innovative programs aimed at 
diversifying the range of judicial services, including the strengthening of existing small
 
claims justice at the municipal level (including the rehabilitation of existing 
infrastructure) and the creation of mobile small claims courts in judicial districts.  
 
5.  
The establishment of new information and orientation centers at key judicial 
buildings and the rehabilitation of existing judicial centers to provide better user attention 
services. 
6.  
The design and implementation of training programs for public defenders, legal 
aid providers and staff of public prosecutor’s offices, including the development of a pilot 
legal aid and orientation program
,
and the organization of workshops and seminars to 
develop public consensus on problems facing the Judiciary.  
7.  
The development and implementation of programs to improve the interactions 
between the Judiciary and legal professionals, including private attorneys and bar 
associations. . 
 
Part E
:
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Learning
1.  
The carrying out of Judicial Modernization Plans, comprising a series of 
investment activities, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the strengthening of the coordination, monitoring and evaluation 
capabilities of the Participating States, through the establishment and operation of a PCU 
in each Participating State and the provision of training for PCU staff; 
(b)  
the development of project administration, financial management and 
procurement administration capabilities for Project staff; 
Page  25
-24-
(c) 
the development and organization of inter and intra State knowledge 
sharing programs to promote good practices, the results and lessons learned during the 
implementation of the Judicial Modernization Plans, in partnership with NCSC and other 
relevant institutions; and 
(d) 
the development of strategic actions and the carrying out of studies 
which may contribute to the development of sector-wide judicial modernization. 
2. 
The strengthening of the Borrower’s capability (at the central and regional levels) 
to supervise the Subprojects and promote learning among Participating States, including: 
(a) 
the carrying out of semi-annual Project monitoring and evaluation 
reviews and the dissemination of the results of such reviews; and 
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance for: (i) the identification of new 
States interested in participating under the Project, and the preparation of Judicial 
Modernization Plans for such States; and (ii) the preparation of future projects aimed at 
supporting the implementation of Judicial Modernization Plans not financed under the 
Project. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2010.
Page  26
-25-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed as a %
)
On each February 1 and August 1,  
 
 
 
5% 
beginning on August 1, 2009 
through February 1, 2019. 
 
 
2. 
 If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b)  
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
3.  
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  27
-26-
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  28
-27-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May, 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. If the Borrower employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May, 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other
than Consultants’ Services)
Part A
:
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the following 
additional procedures: 
1. 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.43 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent possible, contracts for goods and services (other than consultants’ 
services) shall be grouped in bid packages to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each and 
contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or 
more each. 
Page  29
-28-
3. 
Notification and Advertising
(a) 
The General Procurement Notice shall be published in accordance with 
the procedures referred to under Section 2.7 of the Guidelines. A similar invitation to bid 
shall also be published in COMPRANET.  
(b) 
The results of the awards shall be subject to publication in accordance 
with the procedures referred to under Section 2.60 of the Guidelines and published in 
COMPRANET. 
Part B
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.  
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in 
accordance with the procedures referred to under Art. 26, Section I (
Licitación Pública
)
of the Guarantor’s Procurement of Goods Law; and 
(b) 
works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in 
accordance with the procedures referred under Art. 27, Section I (
Licitación Pública) 
of
the Guarantor’s Procurement of Works Law shall apply. 
2. Shopping
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to under Art. 26, Section II 
(
Invitación a cuando menos tres personas
)
of the Guarantor’s Procurement of Goods 
Law; provided that the Bank has authorized the use of the said procedures by notice to 
the Borrower in writing; and 
(b) 
works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of the procedures referred under Art. 
27, Section II (
Invitación a cuando menos tres personas
)
of
the Guarantor’s Procurement 
of Works Law, provided that the Bank has authorized the use of the said procedures by 
notice to the Borrower in writing. 
Page  30
-29-
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods and works which meet the requirements for direct contracting referred to 
in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (i) said paragraphs; or (ii) 
the procedures referred to under Art. 26, Section III (
Adjudicación Directa) 
of
the 
Guarantor’s Procurement Law. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of quality and cost in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines and the following provision: for 
purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
Part B
:
Other Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for assignments which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 
of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
quality in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 2. 
Least-cost Selection
Services for training and knowledge sharing, including international and local 
conferences, seminars, courses, workshops may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of lowest cost in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  31
-30-
4.  
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances that meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.  
Individual Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph 5.4, subject to prior 
approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Part A
:
Prior Review
The following review procedures shall apply to contracts for which the 
Procurement Plan provides for prior review by the Bank:  
1. 
Goods, Works a
nd
Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to contracts for goods, works or services (other 
than consultants’ services). However, if such contracts are to be procured on the basis of 
direct contracting procedures, the following procedures shall apply instead: (a) prior to 
the execution of such contract, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract for its approval; (b) the contract shall be awarded 
only after the Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (c) the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 (h) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.  
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to contracts for consultants’ services provided by 
firms. However, if such contracts are to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection, the following procedures shall apply instead: (a) the qualifications, experience, 
Page  32
-31-
terms of reference and conditions of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval; (b) the contract shall be awarded only after the 
Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (c) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individuals
The following prior review procedures shall apply to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants: (a) the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants (or, if the consultant is to be selected on a sole source basis, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants) shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval; (b) the 
contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (c) 
the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply to the contract. 
Part B
:
Post Review
The following post review procedures shall apply to all contracts for which the 
Procurement Plan does not provide for prior review by the Bank:  
1. 
With respect to contracts for goods, works or services (other than consultants’ 
services), the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to contracts for consultants’ services, the post review procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  33
-32-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Part A
:
Implementation Actions
1.  
Operational Manual
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree:  
(a) 
the Borrower and the Participating States shall carry out their respective 
activities under the Project, including the Subprojects, in accordance with the terms of a 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual). The Operational Manual shall 
include provisions detailing procedures and guidelines of Project implementation 
pertaining to: 
(i) 
the Eligibility Criteria, and procedures for the Borrower 
to assess whether a State meets such criteria; 
(ii) 
terms, conditions and standard contractual provisions for 
the Credit Agreements and Transfer Agreements; 
(iii) 
terms of reference for the Participant States, procedures 
and timetable for the provision of counterpart funds and 
the establishment and maintenance of financial 
management, disbursement accounting and auditing 
systems for the Project, including the Subprojects; 
(iv) 
guidelines for the development of Judicial 
Modernization Plans, including the identification of 
indicators to monitor progress in the implementation of 
such plans; procedures, requirements and standard 
contractual terms for the procurement of works, goods 
and consultants’ services financed under the Project, 
including the Subprojects; 
(v) 
terms of reference and procedures for the monitoring and 
evaluation of Project implementation, (for the Borrower) 
and the Subprojects (for the Participating States); and 
Page  34
-33-
(vi) 
guidelines for consultation with civil society and the 
media, and dissemination of information related to the 
Project, including the Subprojects; and (vii) a prohibition 
on the carrying out of any works under the Project that 
would trigger the involuntary resettlement of people 
and/or businesses from the work sites; and 
(b) 
the Borrower shall not, and shall cause the Participating States not to 
amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof. In case 
of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
2. 
Subproject Approval Procedures
(a) 
A State interested in requesting financing under the Credit Program shall, 
through its State Executive, send to the Borrower a letter (Letter of Intent) including, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
a draft Judicial Modernization Plan prepared in accordance with 
the Eligibility Criteria, supported by appropriate documentary 
evidence and other data that the Borrower may reasonably 
request; and 
(ii) 
the State’s commitment to allocate the Credit Program funds, if 
approved, to the carrying out of a plan for the modernization of 
its Judiciary (the Judicial Modernization Plan). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall review the Letter of Intent, and assess whether the 
State meets the Eligibility Criteria. The State, if it meets such criteria, shall be eligible for 
participation under the Credit Program (Participating State) and shall submit a formal 
Credit application to the Borrower.  
(c) 
All Credit applications shall be reviewed by the Borrower’s operations 
committee (
Comité Interno de Cr
é
dito)
 pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s 
credit manual (
Manual de Normas de Crédito
), which sets forth, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the criteria, terms and conditions for the provision of Credits, 
including the maximum Credit amount, collateral, repayment 
terms, maturity, and other legal and financial requirements; and 
Page  35
-34-
(ii) 
the criteria for the suspension or cancellation of funds under the 
Credit in case of noncompliance by the Participating State under 
the Credit Agreement including the failure to provide, on a 
timely fashion, the counterpart funds required for the 
implementation of a Subproject. 
(d) 
Following the approval of a Credit application, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
enter into a Credit Agreement with the Participating State, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the agreement of the Participating State to: 
(A) use the Credit funds to carry out, or cause to be carried out, 
the Subproject in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the Credit Agreement, the Operational Manual, and the 
Implementation Letter; (B) keep, or cause to be kept records and 
accounts for the expenditures financed under the Subproject and 
furnish them to the Borrower, in a timely fashion, throughout the 
life of the Subproject in order to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations under Sections 4.01 (b), 4.01(c) and 4.02 of 
this Agreement; (C) enable the Borrower to review the accounts 
and other records, including contract documentation for the 
procurement of works, goods, and consultants’ services required 
for the implementation of the Subproject; (D) provide the 
Borrower with all information and documentation related to the 
monitoring and evaluation of the Subproject; and (E) comply 
with the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of works, goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively); and 
(ii) 
shall cause the Participating State to enter into a Transfer 
Agreement with the respective Judiciary, including, 
inter alia
:
the agreement of the State Executive to transfer Credit funds to 
the Judiciary for the implementation of the Judicial 
Modernization Plan, and the Judiciary’s agreement to: (A) 
provide, in a timely manner and as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Subproject, 
including the counterpart funds required to ensure the timely 
implementation of the Judicial Modernization Plan; and (B) 
carry out its respective activities under the Subprojects, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, banking, financial, procurement, auditing, 
participatory, environmental and social standards and practices 
(including gender, youth and indigenous sensitive strategies), 
with due regard to the provisions of the terms and conditions of 
Page  36
-35-
the Credit Program and the provisions of the respective State 
Organic Law. 
3. 
Annual Operating Plan
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower in close consultation 
with the Judiciary in each Participating State shall: 
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines detailed in the Operational 
Manual, and by not later than January 31, in each year of Project implementation, starting 
on January 31, 2006, and submit to the Bank a consolidated annual operating plan (AOP) 
satisfactory to the Bank, including a description of activities (based on the individual 
annual operating plans prepared by each one of the Participating States) proposed for the 
upcoming year, a budget, a financial plan (detailing the amount of counterpart funds to be 
provided in such year), a training and knowledge sharing program and a Procurement 
Plan for the procurement of works, goods and consultants’ services required to carry out 
such activities; 
(b) 
review with the Bank said AOP, within two weeks following the 
submission of said plan; and 
(c) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
and achievement of said AOP, based on the views of the Borrower and the Bank on said 
plan. 
Part B
:
Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall appoint, and 
thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, the following implementation 
staff: 
(a) 
a team of technical staff (the liaison team) drawn from the Borrower’s 
headquarters’ offices, which shall be responsible,
 inter alia
,
for:  
(i) 
carrying out supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Project 
activities, including the Subprojects; 
(ii) 
ensuring effective coordination and timely exchange of 
information among the staff of the Borrower, the Participating 
State, the Judiciary and the Bank;  
Page  37
-36-
(iii) 
overseeing the effectiveness of dissemination and knowledge 
sharing activities referred to under Part E.1 (d) of the Project; 
and 
(iv) 
overseeing the efficacy and quality of learning programs and 
events proposed for financing under the Subprojects and 
monitoring and evaluation procedures; and 
(b) 
dedicated regional staff in the Borrower’s decentralized offices 
(
Delegaciones
), which shall be responsible, 
inter alia
,
for: (i) day-to-day coordination of 
Subprojects with the Participating States and the Judiciaries; (ii) ensuring the timely 
completion of technical, financial, impact analysis and progress reports to be submitted 
by the Participating States to the Borrower; and (iii) ensuring that procurement, financial 
management and disbursement documentation is submitted to the Borrower.  
2. 
External Advisory Group
(a) 
The Borrower may seek the opinion of an advisory group (the External 
Advisory Group), comprising, 
inter alia
,
independent legal and judicial experts, members 
of bar associations, academic and research institutions, and recognized experts from 
different disciplines and regions of Mexico. 
(b) 
The External Advisory Group may be consulted, on as needed basis, for: 
(i) providing overall advice and strategic guidance on judicial modernization issues; (ii) 
ensuring effective knowledge sharing and learning among judicial staff in the 
Participating States; (iii) proposing effective mechanisms to maintain an ongoing 
dialogue with civil society, and the media, on the judicial modernization process in each 
Participating State; and (iv) assessing the soundness of the strategies and activities 
proposed under the existing and new Judicial Modernization Plans. 
3. Subproject 
Implementation 
Arrangements
(a) 
For the purposes of carrying its respective activities under the Project, 
the Judiciary in each Participating State shall establish and thereafter maintain, at all 
times, within the 
Presidencia del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia
,
until the completion of 
the respective Judicial Modernization Plan: 
(i) 
a monitoring and evaluation committee of judicial experts (CCS) 
which shall prepare a monitoring and evaluation manual, gather 
data, and prepare impact evaluations reports to be furnished to 
the Borrower, on a periodic basis; and 
Page  38
-37-
(ii) 
a judicial modernization support unit (PCU) with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
following functions and responsibilities: (A) providing 
operational support to CCS; (B) developing, implementing and 
updating the Judicial Modernization Plan; (C) collecting and 
disseminating judicial statistics; (D) disseminating and 
publishing court resolutions; (E) conducting stakeholder surveys 
and public opinion campaigns; (F) carrying out learning and 
knowledge sharing events; (G) disseminating good practices and 
results achieved throughout the implementation of the 
Subproject; (H) preparing and submitting to the Borrower, which 
in turn will submit to the Bank, the reports referred to in Part C.1 
(b) of this Schedule; (I) reviewing jointly with the Borrower and 
the Bank, progress achieved by the Judiciary in the 
implementation of its respective Subproject Investment 
Activities, on the basis of the annual operating plans referred to 
in Part A.3 of this Schedule; and (J) identifying any possible 
obstacle or difficulty affecting or threatening to affect Subproject 
implementation, and proposing appropriate solutions to such 
obstacle or difficulty. 
(b) 
The PCU shall be staffed, at all times, throughout the implementation of 
the Subproject, by qualified and experienced judicial, technical and administrative staff in 
adequate numbers and with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, including: 
(i) 
a coordinator who shall be responsible for day-to-day 
implementation of Subproject Investment Activities; 
(ii) 
a full-time procurement specialist who shall be responsible for 
the carrying out of procurement and contractual aspects required 
for the implementation of the Subproject, including, 
inter alia
,
the provision of no-objection for the award of contracts below 
the prior review provisions detailed in Section IV. A. of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the review of all procurement 
procedures and bid evaluation reports and the maintenance of all 
relevant procurement documentation for review by the Borrower 
and the Bank; and 
(iii) 
a full-time financial specialist who shall be responsible for 
accounting, auditing and preparation of consolidated financial 
reports required by the Judiciary and the Borrower and the Bank. 
Page  39
-38-
Part C
:
Semi-Annual Project Reviews
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the Participating States, until the 
completion of the Project to: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and 
the Participating States to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis (in accordance with 
the Monitoring Indicators) the carrying out of the Project, including the Subprojects, and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, by not later than January 31, and July 
31, in each year of Project implementation starting on July 31, 2006, until the completion 
of the Project, reports in a format satisfactory to the Bank, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, which reports shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
a detailed description of activities completed during the twelve 
months preceding the date of said report; 
(ii) 
a detailed progress report, including lessons learned during 
Project implementation, good practices proposed for knowledge 
sharing among the Participating States and identifying any issue 
that may delay the implementation of the Project, including the 
Subprojects, and setting out the measures recommended to solve 
such issue; and 
(iii) 
the FMR referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, and September 30, starting on 
September 30, 2006, until the completion of the Project the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and carry out two semiannual implementation 
reviews to, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
evaluate progress achieved in the implementation of the Judicial 
Modernization Plans, the fiscal impact of such plans, including 
an assessment of the need to adjust, update or amend such plans; 
(ii) 
assess the timeliness and adequacy of transfer of Credit funds to 
the Judiciaries and their provision of counterpart funds; 
Page  40
-39-
(iii) 
exchange views on progress achieved in the implementation of 
the AOP, during the previous year, and proposed activities for 
the upcoming year; 
(iv) 
identify any issues that may delay or impede the implementation 
of the Judicial Modernization Plans, and propose any solutions to 
resolve such issues; 
(v) 
review the quality and efficacy of access to justice programs and 
strategies referred to in Part D of the Project, and propose any 
remedial action, if needed; 
(vi) 
evaluate the quality and impact of the knowledge sharing 
programs to ensure wide dissemination of lessons learned and 
good practices; and 
(vii) 
seek the views of the CCS in each Participating State, the NCSC, 
the External Advisory Group and other relevant civil society 
organization with regard to the implementation of the Judicial 
Modernization Plans; and 
(d) 
after each of the preceding reviews, take, and cause the Participating 
States to take, all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project, 
including the Subprojects, and the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  41
-40-
SCHEDULE 6
 
Special Account
 
1.  
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)  
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
 
(c)  
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
 
2.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  42
-41-
 
(ii)  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
 
4.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
5.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
 
(d)  
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
 
Page  43
-42-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
 
6. 
(a)  
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure which is not an eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
 
