                                             Documentof
                                         The WorldBank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 27946-MX




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$30MILLION

                                                TO THE

               BANCONACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOSPUBLICOS, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)

                                  WITHTHE GUARANTEEOFTHE

                                    UNITEDMEXICANSTATES

                                                FORA

     STATEJUDICIAL MODERNIZATIONSUPPORTINGACCESS TO JUSTICE PROJECT

                                             JUNE4,2004




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementSector Management Unit
Mexico and Colombia CountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 24,2004)
                            Currency Unit = MXN
                              MXN0.087 = US$1
                                     US$1 = MXN 11.55


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -- December 31


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BANOBRAS NationalBank of Works and Public Services (BuncoNacional de Obrusy Servicios Pliblicos)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CJP      ConsejeriaJuridica de la Presidencia
cso      Civil Society Organization
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GDLN     Global Distance LearningNetwork
GDF      Global Development Gateway Foundation
GOM      Government of Mexico
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT      Information and CommunicationTechnology
IDF      InstitutionalDevelopment Fund
Ih4F     InternationalMonetary Fund
INM      InstitutoNacionalde la Mujer
IT       Information Technology
JSDF     JapanSocial Development Fund
LCR      Latin America andthe Caribbean Region
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NCSC     NationalCommission of State courts (ComisidnNacionalde Tribunales Superioresde Justicia,A.C)
NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganization
PCU      Project CoordinationUnit
PHRD     Japan Policy and Human ResourcesDevelopment Fund
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SHCP     Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretariade Hacienda y Crbdito Phblico)
TOR      Terms of Reference


                           Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                Country ManagedDirector:        IsabelM.Guerrero
                          Sector Director:      Ernest0 May
                          Sector Manager:       RonaldE.Myers
                        Task Team Leader:       Waleed Haider Malik

                                                MEXICO         FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                   StateJudicial Modernization SupportingAccess to Justice Project

                                               CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                                 Page
    1. Project development objective                                                                2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                                    3

B. Strategic Context
    1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)goal supported by the project                4
   2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy                                                     4
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                             8

C. Project DescriptionSummary
    1. Project components                                                                          10
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                                12
    3. Benefits andtarget population                                                               13
   4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements                                                   13

D.Project Rationale
    1. Project altematives considered andreasons for rejection                                      16
    2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                17
    3. Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design                                             18
    4. Indicationsof borrower commitment andownership                                               19
    5. Value added of Bank support inthis Project                                                  20

E.Summary ProjectAnalysis
    1. Economic                                                                                     20
    2. Financial                                                                                    21
    3. Technical                                                                                    21
    4. Institutional                                                                                21
    5. Environmental                                                                                22
    6. Social                                                                                       22
    7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                            25

F.Sustainability andRisks
    1. Sustainability                                                                               25
    2. Critical risks                                                                               26
    3. Possible controversial aspects                                                               27

G. Main Conditions
    1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                      28
    2. Other (Project Implementation)                                                               28

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                                      28

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                        29


This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization.

Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                 30
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                           33
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                42
Annex 4: Implementation Framework for Subprojects                              43
Annex 5: FinancialSummary                                                      44
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                          45
          (B) FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                            53
Annex 8: Documentsinthe Project File                                           60
Annex 9: Institutional Context and Challenges of State Judiciaries             61
Annex 10: A Review of Judicial ReforminMexico                                  71
Annex 11: Participatory Approach, and Mapping of Modernization Plans           77
Annex 12: Terms of ReferenceNational Commissionfor StateCourt Strengthening    91
Annex 13: Extemal Advisory Group                                               95
Annex 14: OrganizationalChart of BANOBRAS                                      97
Annex 15: Statement of Loans and Credits                                       98
Annex 16: Country at a Glance                                                  101

Maps (IRBD# 32288,33281,33282,33283)                                           103

Date: June 4,2004                                                     Task Team Leader: Waleed H.Malik
Country ManagerDirector: Isabel M. Guerrero                           Sector Director: Ernest0May
                                                                      Sector Manager: Ronald Myers
Project ID: PO74755                                                   Sector: Judicial Reform
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)                    Theme: Public Sector Reform




 ProposedTerms (IBRD): BANOBRAS haschosenaFixedSpreadLoan inUS$, with anautomatic currency conversion into Mexican
 Pesos uponwithdrawal from the LoanAccount. This would help BANOBRAS managethe foreign exchangeriskby converting their
 obligations under the Bank Loan into MexicanPesos closely matching the onlending termsto the States with their borrowingterms from

                                                                        Yearsto maturity: 15
~Grace period(years):5
 Commitment fee: 0.85% on 1st4 years and0.75%thereafter                  Frontend fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                                         Payableno later that 60 days after Effectiveness Date




       [XI       Fixedat Commitment,with the following repayment method(choose one): Level
       1 1        Linkedto Disbursement
 FinancingPlan (US$m):            Source                                                Local              Foreign           Total
 BORROWER                                                                                   7.50                 0.00         7.50
 DONORS TBC (AECI, AusAID, CIDA, EU, GTZ, JiCA, USAID, Others)
 IBRD                                                                                      25.00                 5.00        30.00
 Total:                                                                                    32.50                 5.00        37.50




          FY                2005       2006          2007       2008          2009
               Annual       2.00          5.00       12.00         9.00         2.00
          Cumulative        2.00          7.00       19.00        28.00        30.00




                                                               1

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
Mexico seeks to improve its social, economic and political development through enhanced
competitiveness and more efficient, transparent public institutions. Policy makers increasingly believe
that improvements in the performance of judicial institutions, particularly at the state level, where 80 per
cent of all cases are heard, are an important element for achieving these objectives over the medium and
long term. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit has told the Bank that "the most important
economic reform Mexico needs i s judicial reform." Research also bears this out. In states with better
functioning courts, firms are larger and more efficient, a finding attributed to entrepreneurs' willingness
to invest more intheir companies when they believetheir rightsare more secure.

The President Fox administration has assigned high priority to judicial institutions and requested Bank
assistanceina meeting with Mr.Wolfensohn.

Access tojustice for the poor and other vulnerable groups in society i s more closely linked to state courts,
regardless ofjurisdiction. Yet institutional capacities of states are weak compared with the federal courts.
Thus, reducingbacklog, strengthening alternative dispute resolutionmechanisms, and generally adjusting
the "supply" of services to meet their "demand," would improve conditions for the achievement of social
justice through speedier, more reliable andequitable dispute resolution.

The Development Objective (DO) of the proposed Project i s to support the improvement of institutional
performance of judiciaries in a few states through BANOBRAS's credit program for state judicial
modernization by learning while doing. In these states, the Project would: (a) strengthen institutional
capabilities, organizational culture and knowledge; (b) strengthen efficiency and effectiveness of judicial
services; (c) improve judicial transparency; (d) increase access to justice; and (e) support Project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and learning, including consultation with Project stakeholders.
Infuture projects, additional statejudiciaries wouldbenefit.

The Project would fund Subprojects--essentially the design and implementation of integrated statejudicial
branch modernization plans--that are consistent with the Project's objectives. These objectives are a), b),
c), and d) noted above. They were chosen because they have been identified as preconditions to enable
the state judiciaries to deliver adequate justice services. These flexible components are the "building
blocks" that will guide the current and future development of state-specific judicial branch modernization
plans and their implementation. Each state judicial branch participating in the Project will determine
 which methods-and thereby which programs-it will adopt, according to its own individual needs and
capabilities.

The approach to improving judicial performance i s based on improvingthe operation of the judiciary as
an institution as opposedto changes inlegislation. Areas to be included inthis institutional modernization
include preparing an integral diagnostic of the operational problems, an analysis of the demand for and
 supply of judicial services, promoting a culture for service, and efficiently distributing and managing
resources. Learning among and within statejudiciaries, BANOBRAS, donors, academia and user groups
 would also be encouraged, to share good practices and participate in monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
 activities.

Participatingstates are those states (andjudiciaries) that meet eligibility criteria (technical and financial)
 for receiving fundingfrom BANOBRAS's credit programunder this Project for judicial modernization.'




  Letters of Intent to participate in the Project have been received from Aguascalientes, Guanajuato, Jalisco andPuebla states.
The Project i s however, open to all states and the Federal District that meet the Eligibility Criteria (see Part C 4 of the PAD).
                                                                   2

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
Project performanceindicators would include:

 (1) Improvedinformation development for institutionalplanningandexternal services.
 (2) Reduction in case processingtimes.
 (3) Increasedavailability of public information.
 (4) Total number of usersfrom vulnerable groups accessingjudicial services.
 (5) Improvedapplication of Project know-how and skills through learningprocesses.

Through Subprojects, the Project would develop M&E capabilities (or measures). The Judiciary in each
participating state would establish within Presidenciadel Supremo Tribunal de Justicia a monitoring and
evaluation committee of judicial experts (CCS). The CCS would be operationally supported by the state
judicial branch modernization support unit (or PCU) responsible for collecting statistics, conducting
stakeholder surveys, evaluating progress, learning and sharing knowledge and disseminating results.
Initial baseline data for several states is already available in statejudicial branch modemizationplans and
the draft OperationalManual for the Project.

A key feature of the Project would be semi-annual implementation reviews, with a M&E, learning and
dissemination focus. These would be conducted by BANOBRAS in collaboration with the Comisidn
Nacional de Tribunales Superiores de Justicia A.C., the national commission of state courts (hereafter
NCSC) comprising representatives of the Supreme Courts of justice at the state-level, the Bank, civil
society groups and others to assess progress regarding the design and implementation of modernization
plans. These would also serve as the basis for makingtechnical adjustments and sharing knowledge.

The M&E capacity building in participating states would generally focus on judicial modernization
aspects and indicators of the following nature would be created:

     --- Institutional capabilities, organizational culture and knowledge to assess impacts on such
     variables as the provision of timely and adequate information on demand and supply of judicial
     services, efficiency gains in the use of resources, stakeholder perceptions of services, availability and
     successful completion of comprehensive training, and successful knowledge sharing on good
    .practices.

     --- Efficiency and effectiveness to assess impacts on such variables as time of case processing from
     filing to disposition, the impact of the frequent use of amparos2, enforcement of judgments,
     frequency, time and outcome of appeals, degree of complexity of cases, compliance with mandated
     procedural time limits and deadlines, level of automation and systematization of procedures, user
     satisfaction with court performance, reduction in case loads and in use of dilatory tactics, judges'
     proactivity in case management, turnover rate of judicial staff, skill level andjob performance, and
     numberof citizen complaints.

     ---Judicial Transparency to assess impacts on variables such as existence of internal controls and
     discipline system, enforcement of code of ethics, feedback on citizen complaints, diffusion of
     knowledge on oral procedures, dissemination of judicial branch annual reports and perceptions of
     corruption.

     ---Access tojustice would seek to assess impacts on such variables as availability of alternate dispute
     resolution mechanisms, creation of and satisfaction with mobile courts, availability of culture
     sensitivity training for judges and staff, citizen outreach mechanisms, re-mapping of courts'
     geographical jurisdiction to maximize accessibility, mobilization of awareness of citizen rights,



  There is no adequate Englishtranslation, although sometimes defined as injunctive relief and constitutionalprotection

     quality of legal services to especially needy citizens and court services in the language of the user
     and informationon the cost of anddemandfor legal services.

     --- Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and learning to assess impacts on improving
     capacity of BANOBRAS and enhancing capacity for monitoring and evaluation reviews, and
     promoting learning among change agents in states on the strategies and tactics of judicial
     modernization.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 28141-ME                 Date of latest CAS discussion:April 15,2004
The current Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group in partnership with the United
Mexican States (Report No. 28141-ME) highlights the importance of assistance to the judicial system,
which it considersto provide inefficient and inadequateservices. In the CAS discussion by the Executive
Directors inApril 2004, it was agreed that the institutional reform agenda, as outlined by Mexico's 2001-
2006 National Development Plan, is fundamental to improve basic services, especially for the poor.
Furthermore, the National Development Plan assigns a high priority for improving the justice sector.
Therefore the objective of the Bank's partnership with thejudiciary is to undertake a progressivejudicial
modernization processto strengthenthe state courts and maketheir operations more transparent.

2. Mainstate judicial sector issues, Government andBANOBRAS strategy:
Institutional Context of State Courts. Mexico's justice system is comprised of 2 systems (the state
system comprising of 31 state courts plus the Federal District court, as well as the federal court system)
along with corresponding ancillary justice institutions. The legal framework for the court system is
detailed in the Federal Constitution of Mexico (see, for example, Arts. 13-23, 40, 41, 94-107, 116, 133),
state constitutions, the Organic Laws of the court systems, as well as procedural laws regarding civil,
family and criminal matters. State courts and other justice sector agencies are organizationally
independent of the federal system, operatingunder separate organic, procedural, and substantive laws.3

Box B 2.1 provides a very simplified schematic of the federaltstate-judicialtexecutive organizational
landscape, for the purposeof highlighting state judicial systems' (andtheir interplay with other actors in
justice admini~tration)~.

Overall (federal plus state) there are about 6,000 judges (justices, magistrados, judges, judges of the
peace etc.) in Mexico (about 16,800 persons perjudge). About 3,600 belong to the statejudicial branches
(about 28,000 persons perjudge), and the rest to the federal judicial branch and administrative courts at
the federal and state levels'. According to data for the most recent year available (2000), the annual
budget for the federaljudicial systemi s about 16billionPesos, and for the statejudicial systems is about
6.7 billion Pesos (combinedtotal for the 31states and the FederalDistrict).

The overalljudicial system receives about 1 million new cases per year, which pertain to civil, family and
criminal matters.The federaljudicial branch, the federal administrative courts and the state administrative
courts generally handle other matters, which include amparos from state court systems, and labor,
agrarian, fiscal, bankruptcy, and other matters.




 The institutional context and challenges of statejudiciaries are described inAnnex 9. A brief review ofjudicial reform in
Mexico i s inAnnex 10.A bibliography of sector reports, studies anddocuments inProject files i s inAnnex 8.
 Mexico, has a civil code tradition. Itsjustice sector institutions are distributed between the judicial and executive branchesof
government, and the federal and state levels. At the federal level, in addition to the federal courts (the federal judicial branch),
there are several administrative courts and agenciesthat are part of the executive branch (e.g. Tribunal Federal de Conciliacidn y
Arbitraje, responsible for hearinglabor disputes) responsible forjustice provision. At the state level, the distribution ofjudicial
institutions generally mirrors the federal pattern.
 Based on Mexico's population of 100.9 million in 2002.
                                                                  4

Reviews indicate that about 80% of all judicial cases in Mexico, or some 800,000, are handled by state
court systems. The state courts hearcivil, family andcriminalcases (typically about 60,20 and 20 percent
respectively). The state court system lacks adequate financial, human and other resources to meet the
accumulated and growing demand, and social and economic needs of the population. Their institutional
capacitiesare weaker than the federal courts6.

                                                                    Box B 2.1

                                                                  Justice System
                                                             (Simplified Schematic)
         State Executive Branch                  StateJudiaalBran&              FederalJudiaalBranch    FederalExecutiveBranch




     Aslipma Cork de Justicia de la Nacion
     *The Superior Tribunaloflustice CrW
     ** 31 Stafes
     *** JudicialCocncilshave beencreatedmlyin some states
                 and IFederalDbhiLl

     t TheCourtofhlilii Justicenotincluded


Overall External and Internal Problems of State Courts (See Box B 2.2). Consultative workshops with
judges, administrators in 11 different state courts as well as consultations with users, an Extemal
Advisory Group, and the review of prior studies, provided broad diagnosis of the weaknesses of these
state courts. Some were those that are typically inthe scope of the states' machinery. Other problems are
only partially under the control of the states. These are heavily dependent upon the operation and legal
jurisdiction of the federal judicial system and its ancillary institutions (and to some extent the
administrative courtsrunby the state executive branches).

Many of these two broad sets of problems are interrelated and difficult to separate. They are shown in a
simplified graphic in Box B.2.2. Prominent external weaknesses include: low public confidence in the
courts, subordinationof state courts to the federal courts through the use of amparo, confusion regarding
the jurisdiction of judicial authorities in commercial cases (concurrencia mercantil), among others.
Internal weaknesses include poorly designedpolicies, weak judicial independence(due to subordination
of state to federal courts and occasionalproblems with political and media pressures), weak monitoring
of professionalperformance, lack of institutional capacity and resources, and overly formal and deficient
procedures that stem from a lack of adequate and up-to-date legislative frameworks. Functional
weaknesses include inadequate case management, significant caseload delays, insufficient statistical
registries, inefficient bailiff and clerk operations and supervision, and uneven workload distribution,
among others. (ref. Annex 9) These are apparent problems, but as the Juicio E'ecutivo Mercantil (JEM)

6Interms of technical base, physical infrastructure andhumanresource capacity, amongothers.
                                                                           5

research the Bank conducted showed, until individual state studies are done, distinguishing reality from
appearance i s generally difficult.

In response to these problems, some states have already advancedjudicial modernization efforts (e.g.
Tabasco, Guanajuato, Estado de Mexico, Aguascalientes, Nuevo L e h , Chihuahua and others), and are in
different stages of implementation. However, across the board there are institutional problems such as
weak strategic planning and capacity. There also is a need for better measurement of results, appropriate
incentives for change, citizen participation and sharing of good practicesand knowledge so that the pace
and impact of modernization efforts is improved nation-wide. Weak coordination and learning also affect
mostjudiciaries.


                                                         Box B.2.2

                                 Judicial ModernizationFramework

                           Weaknesses (Internal andextemal1                       Challenges
                                                                      Developmg                  Publicsecurity
                                                                                   Economic
                                                                          equity developmentand
                                                                                 competitiveness S'engthen'ng
                                                                                                      state



                                   Lackof alternativesto




                                 Lackofdesign and                                  Transparency




                                                                       Buildmg Blocksfor JudicialModernization




Government and BANOBRASStrategy:

Project development has been participatory and would continue through implementation, involving
consultations with localjudges, court administrators and users. Bank coordination for consultations with
states has been through the Comisio'n Nacional de Tribunales Superiores de Justicia (National
Commission of State Courts, NCSC) in liaison with the Secretaria de Hacienda y Crkdito Pziblico
(SHCP) and BANOBRAS. This collaboration and participation would continue during Project
implementation. So far modernization plans have been drafted by eleven states (Aguascalientes, Baja
California, Chihuahua, Colima, Guanajuato, Nayarit, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, Puebla, Sonora, and Estado
de Mexico). A description of the participatory processandtechnical mappingof these draft modernization
plans is provided inAnnex 11, as a working guideline for states in advancing planning initiatives, and for
BANOBRAS to helpmake optimal "golno go" decisions on fundingthe diverse modernization plans.

BANOBRAS is currently determining the financial viability of these states to determine which can
participate inthe initiation of this Project.

                                                            6

The Fox administration has assigned high priority for assistance for overcoming the state judicial
institutions' deficiencies. The Presidential Public Policy Advisor and Legal Advisor have validated
assistance for modernization efforts in a few states initially and expansionof assistance through follow-on
(repeater) projects.

National and state leaders in public and private sector (such as governors, judges, academia, businesses
and others) generally recognize the importance of state judiciaries and are aware of the problems that
affect their performance.They seek to support, facilitate, and collaborate to strengthen public institutions
and their relationships at national and state levels, andamongdifferent branchesof government.

BANOBRAShas decided to open a new line of assistance to states for strengtheningjudicial institutions
(Credit Program). It is taking the lead (in collaboration with the NCSC and the statejudicial branches) in
the development of the arrangements for assisting state judicial branches to help improve their
performance.

Since BANOBRAS (borrower) will be diversifying its portfolio through this Project lendingto states (via
subprojects) in a sector which is "new" to BANOBRAS Cjudicial sector), a flexible-phased strategy i s
being adopted. The strategy would produce "know-how" and institutional capacity development within
BANOBRAS, andother institutions (e.g. NCSC) that may participate inthe Project.

The technical strategy to supportjudicial modernization (see Box B 2.3) is to begin implementation with
a few states and expand coverage progressively, building in knowledge-sharing within and among the
states and others who are interested in improving judicial performance, demonstrate results, replicate
good practices, measure impacts and inform stakeholders. BANOBRAS plans to promote the ongoing
participatory process for Project development, where the NCSC and individual state judicial branches
have taken the lead indeveloping judicial modernization plans in coordination with state governmentsby
consulting stakeholders. The consultative process involved working-group "reflection and planning"
sessions with judges, court administrators, anduser groups indifferent states (see Annex 11for details). It
is expected that starting small with a few states and sharing knowledge with all states would have the
requisite multiplier effect to promote broader nationwide modernization efforts and increaseddemandfor
BANOBRAS.

Judicial modernization i s a mediumto longterm learning process. So another element of the Government
and BANOBRAS strategy is the support of Judicial Modernization Plans preparedby the states based on
their individual needsusingaflexible methodology andframework7.

Judicial modernization efforts answer a bottom-up demand for transparency, access and efficiency. But
past efforts to modernize have suffered from a lack of an integrated approach; a lack of focus on the
 effects of federal-statejudicial interaction, a limitedjudge-centered approach and insufficient attention to
judicial independence and users. Judicial modernization must take these lessons into account for
 subproject design, for improved access to justice, transparency and efficiency. Strengthening the
 institutional capacity of the statejudiciaries is thus integral.




 'This  was developedby the Mexican andintemational expertswith Bank's technical assistance and support, as a product of the
 consultative process with eleven states, the NCSC, SHCP, BANOBRAS, ExternalAdvisory Group and others. See PAD Part C1,
 Annexes 2 and 11for the descriptionofjudicial modemizationthematic building blocks, the participatory metliodologyandthe
 initial mappingof state modernizationplans.
                                                             7

                                      TowardsJudicial Morlernizatiort: Development Path




                                                       Box 2.3
3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project andstrategic choices:
The proposed project would address the capacity, efficiency, transparency and access needs of the
participating states' judiciaries. It would also begin to address BANOBRAS' capacity to take on lending
in thejudicial sector, and would facilitate knowledge-sharing through promotion of collaboration (where
necessary) with the NCSC,donors, academiaand others.

However, state judiciaries confront a unique set of social realities and institutional challenges-diverse
user needs, weak capacity, only very recent modernization experience and outdated legal frameworks.
Such diversity, along with the number of Mexican states makes a "one-size-fits-all" approach to reform
not only impracticable, but unattainable. Innovation and learning that gradually increase ownership,
enhance impactsand reduceresistance to change are required.

The first strategic choice was to focus on a few states and support institutional development of the
judiciaries (instead of programmatic loan assistance) through the provision of a flexible set of judicial
modernization buildingblocks to develop strategies. That was because challengesof statejudicial systems
vary in degree and scope, as does their ability to respond to them. For this purpose, the phased "building
block" approachto overall institutional capacity buildingi s proposed.

The second strategic choice was to promote the development and implementation of integrated state
judicial branch modernization plans with a participatory "learning while doing" approach. This aims to
ensure demand driven commitment, and provide real impact assistance for results on the ground. This
should help consensus building and achieve results on the ground that are sustainable. Semi-annual
reviews would beconductedto check on this process.

The third strategic choice was to adopt a flexible approach for project development and implementation.
That is because of the need for open-endedness in addressing 32 states with diverse interests and
requirements. This is also key to overcoming resistance to change, and buildingjudicial leadership.
Although time consuming, this approach is consideredbest suited to such complex changes as reforming
and modernizing judiciaries. This approach could help promote synergies among states and judicial
institutions, and may contribute to saving costs.


                                                            8

Thefourth strategic choiceis to leverage partnershipswhere possible, especiallyfor accesstojustice and
transparency related activities. Citizen access to justice is multi-dimensional and complex. A broad and
innovative set of measures would be promoted by Participating States under the modernization plans,
with special emphasis on the assessment of disparities (supply and demand gaps) and building
partnerships betweenjudicial branches (and BANOBRAS, NCSC and national universities) with public,
private andsocial institutions' at all levels to begin to address this major challenge.

These partnerships could possibly be with (on different topics and themes) institutions such as state
Secretm'as de Hacienda on citizen education on the economics of rule of law and its impacts on national
competitiveness; ConsejeriaJuridica de la Presidenciaand State Governorson citizen education, values of
law in society and public administration in union of federal states; Instituto Nacional de la Mujer on
gender related matters; PGR and state Procuradurias on women and men victims' rights and
responsibilities; state justice institutions on labor and administrative matters; state legislatures on the
need for pro-se representation; INEGIon judicial demographics and statistics; National Commission for
the Development of IndigenousPeoples(CONDEPI) on indigenousjustice matters; Culture Development
Ministries on culture sensitivity training of judges in indigenous areas; government small business
development agencies on small claim dispute resolution matters, GOM's poverty alleviation related
agencies at the national and state levels on "voices of the poor for access to justice" and other equity
matters; civil society, business, construction, transport, municipal, medical associations on specialized
topics and interests. Also the Association of Mexicans living abroad (e.g. USA) would be explored for
co-funding activities related to citizen and youth education on justice (e.g. student judges program).
Financial institutions, manufacturing groups and banking associations would be tapped for community
outreach andeducation programsthrough the federal and state agencies (e.g. education, finance, industry,
competition, commerce, etc.). Donor agencies and think tanks may also be approached to test new
initiatives andcomplement Project resources.

Inpromotingaccesstojustice, adeclarationdrafted atthe 2002VIIIberoamericanSummitofPresidents
of Supreme Courts andTribunals of Justice inCancunwould beusefulas well (www.iberius.org). It was
the product of aconsensus betweenthe representativesof thejudicial branches of the 22 countries present
at the summit. It aspires to provide apoint of referencefor the right of access to justice for all individuals
andfor thedisadvantagedinparticular, andto providea compendiumof goodpracticesinjustice
administration.

The fifth strategic choice was to concentrate on knowledge-sharing and transparency of information. This
was designedto help raise awareness, buildconsensus, generate support, improve the knowledge base for
reform, and deepen understanding of the state courts' roles in social and economic development. These
are considered essential for helping to fill the present policy gap about the future directions for judicial
modernization and reform. This would also help coordination with other donors and in sequencing
learning activities through leveraging other experiences.

Under knowledge sharing, choice has also been made to promote citizen information on public
institutions. The national transparency law provides a useful mechanismfor promoting dialogue, so that
states can fashion their own response anddevelop appropriatetransparency mechanisms.Transparency in
the public sector and federal governancewas broadly strengthenedby the FederalFreedomof Information
Law' (Ley de Transparencia) of June 2002, which established the public right to information held by
government agencies and created the Federal Institute for Access to Public Information (consisting of
five commissioners appointed by the Executive Branch for a single term of six years) to implement the
law. Broadly stated, the intent of the law i s to "make public administration transparent," to encourage


* Salient  features of the law include: the designation of all information relating to the administration of govemment agencies as
public; the requirement that public agencies provide direct access to information relating to institutional directories, budget,
 salaries, services and procedures. contracts and public works; the publication by the FederalJudiciary o f sentences or rulings; the
right of the public to request information that i s not already available through a simple and expeditious process, with a right to
 appeal if that request is not granted. Categories of exemption to the disclosure of information include national security (with the
 notable exception of cases of humanrights violations), international relations, economic stability, personal privacy and ongoing
legal or law enforcement procedures (classified information is reopened after a periodof twelve years).
                                                                    9

accountability to citizens" so that they may evaluate the performance of government agencies, to
"improve the organization, classification and handling of documents," and to contribute to "the
democratization of Mexican society andthe full operation of the rule of law" (Article 4).

In addition to breaking new ground at the federal level, the law has provided a framework for dialogue
and discussionat the state governancelevel for strengtheningtransparencyinthe administration of public
agencies. Several state judiciaries are in the process implementing initiatives, organizing seminars and
consultations to raise awareness of the institutional and social benefits of transparencyin the management
andpublicationof informationat the state level.

The sixth strategic choice was to develop capacity of BANOBRAS in this new sector, through semi-
annual implementation reviews to be conducted in collaboration with NCSC and others. The good
practice judicial modernization experiencesof states and researchand evaluation experiences of national
institutions such as CIDE, ITAh4, IBERO, UNAM, and of state and federal judicial training and
development institutes and institutions may be leveraged to develop this learning process. An External
Advisory Group has also been identified for the Project (see Annex 13). BANOBRAS may consult the
advisory group, on as neededbasis, regarding strategicjudicial modernization issues, knowledge sharing,
dialogue with civil society, and the media, and review of existing and new judicial modernization plans.
Also, as complement to the Project, grant (and federal) funding will be sought to strengthen
BANOBRAS's collaboration with NCSC and other institutions and promote good practices and set the
stage for expandedfollow-on support to meet demand. The overall investment needs of state courts over
the next ten to fifteen years are estimatedat about US$200-250million.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(seeAnnex 2for adetaileddescription andAnnex 3for adetailedcost
    breakdown):
Four maincomponents or thematic buildingblocks (see Box C 1.O) have been identified as preconditions
to enable statejudiciaries deliver adequatejustice services. As noted, the Project would fund subprojects
or separate projects in "participating states." Each of these subprojects would be complete in themselves,
consisting of the design and implementation of integrated state judicial branch modernization plans
consistent with the Project's objective.

Thefeatures of these strategic components are:

                                                  Box C 1.0

                                 Thematic BuildingBlocks:




                                                      10

A.       Institutional imurovement, organizational culture and knowledge difision. This emphasizes
strengthening institutional capabilities, development of a culture of service and increasing knowledge
about justice institutions and their operations. It also concerns strengtheningjurisdictional processes and
raising awareness of the judicial function. It encompasses: (a) improvement of the capabilities of judges
and staff in such areas as strategic planning and budget programming, judicial organization, technology
use, dissemination of institutional innovations, sharing modernization plans with stakeholders,
encouragement of civil society to participate in the evaluation and feedback on institutional
transformations and impacts; (b) awareness raising of judicial operatorsto act consistent with a culture of
service and continuous improvement by focusing on human resources, knowledge development,
leadership development for change management and promotion of public outreach and educational
campaigns; and (c) sharing knowledge with local, national and international judiciaries and other
institutions involved injudicial modernization.

B.       Zmoroving efficiency and effectiveness of iudicial services. This addresses improving the
efficiency of judicial branches and the effectivenessofjudicial decisionsto raise productivity and quality
whilst reducing costs and delays. It encompasses: (a) the better design, follow-up, control and evaluation
of judicial policies with respect tojurisdictional and administrative management; (b) improvement of the
judicial branch management model, procedures and organization through reorganizing functions,
optimizing and rationalizing the use of resources, developing new working methods, systematizing
jurisdictional and administrative procedures, defining, case backlog reduction programs, and
rationalization of case distribution among courts; (c) design and implementation of a judicial career
system with emphasis on professional development and independence, with suitable incentive systems;
(d) systematizationandautomationof proceduresfocusedoncase management anddocumentationfor the
Superior Tribunal of Justice, first instance courts and other courts, and finance and human resources
systems for the Branch's administrative structure andor Judicial Councils; (e) development of training,
research, information and document centers for judges and operators at all levels; (f) development of
information for decision making and interpretation; (g) provision of equipment and infrastructure for
designing and implementing of ICT plan with comprehensive information and technical specifications;
(h) design and implementation of plan for construction, rehabilitation andremodeling of courthousesand
judicial offices; and assistance for pre-investment studies on further enhancement of the efficiency and
efficacy of the Judicial Branch.

C.       Zncreasinn iudiciul transuarencv. To convert jurisdictional entities into service-oriented
institutions whose activities are subject to greater public awareness and scrutiny and hence to give them
incentive to performbetter. This block encompasses: (a) creation of new or the strengtheningof existing
organizational units responsible for the dissemination of information about jurisdictional and
administrative procedures, and for the management of judicial documentation to support judges and
judicial operators, including the establishment of judicial information and documentation centers
and information and citizen orientation offices; the carrying out of outreach campaigns to provide
information about the functioning and structure of the judicial system; and the development of annual
performance reports by the Judiciaries including relevant auxiliary institutions; (b) development of
discipline and accountability mechanismsfor judges andjudicial operatorsby developing aJudicial Code
of Ethics and appropriate sanction mechanisms, a system for the receipt of complaints against judicial
operators anddocumentingthe outcome of investigations, accountability mechanismsfor personnelof the
Judicial Branch; (c) organizing events disseminating the benefits of an enhancedtransparency of judicial
processes, such as, the strengthening of oral trials; and(d) carrying out studies andresearchon improving
transparency about discipline systems, accessto information, accountability systems andjudicial ethics.

D.       Strengtheningaccess to justice for all users. To increaseaccessibility to justice administration by
reducing barriers to services, this block encompasses: (a) development of special programs for women,
minors, indigenous peoples and other poor and socially disadvantagedusers of the judicial services and
small entrepreneurs, such as outreach events to provide citizens with a greater understanding of the
judicial branch, of their rights and responsibilities, and helpjudges to gain a greater understandingof the
realities of their social context; school orientation andeducationprograms for children and adolescents to
gain a greater understandingofjustice administration; and community outreach seminars on gender-based
                                                       11

violence; promoting a gender dimension of judicial systems; and access to justice for indigenous
populations; (b) creation of new,          or the strengthening of existing alternative dispute resolution
institutional mechanisms, including awareness-raising and educational campaigns; (c) development of
innovative programs aimed at diversifyingthe rangeofjudicial services, such as strengtheningof existing
small claims justice at the municipallevel, creation of mobile small claims courts injudicial districts, and
establishment of citizen information and orientation centers; (d) development of training programs for
public defenders, legal aid providers and staff of public prosecutor's offices, includingthe developmentof
a pilot legal aid and orientation program, and the organization of workshops and seminars to develop
public consensus on problems facing the Judiciary; (e) development of programs to improve the
interactions between the        Judiciary and legal professionals, including private attorneys and bar
associations; and (f) carrying out of studies for the strengthening of access to justice for the public at
large, with specialemphasis on the poor and disadvantagedpopulations.

Project Costs and BankFinancing.

The Bank will partially finance consultantservices, training, goods, and rehabilitation andworks through
subprojects. Costs at the central level will be borne by BANOBRAS (Borrower) in the provision of
procurementandfinancial management training incollaboration with the Bank.

Additional resources are expected to be mobilized by the Federal Government for the Project starting in
2005 for NCSC strengtheningand promotion of goodjudicial modernization practicesunder Component
E of the Projectg.Terms of referencefor NCSC strengtheningis provided inAnnex 12. Additional grant
financingmay be exploredto provide Participating States complementary funding for further support.




2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A judicial systemthat provides timely, efficient and accessibleservices to a diverse society and that can
meet changing economic needs i s a prerequisite for improving governance, promoting economic
development and foreign investment, and curbing corruption and violence. The proposedProject would
 supportjudicial reform efforts in participating states through credit program financingto support capacity
 building, and makejustice services more accessible. A particular focus would be providing socially and
 economically disadvantaged groups with legal assistance and information, thereby instilling a greater
 public trust injustice sector institutions. BANOBRAS would launch a new area for assistance to states
 (judicial sector), thereby improving government capacity to promote development at the sub-national
 level.




  Pursuant to the recommendationof the SeniorPublicPolicyAdvisorof the Presidencyina meetingwith Sub-secretaryof
 Finance.
                                                         12

3. Benefitsandtargetpopulation:
In participating states, main benefits include: improved service and performance of the state courts;
increased public con.dence in state institutions, in particular state judicial branches; and optimized
resolution of disputes and possible reduction in level of social conflict when improvements are
mainstreamed. Operators of the statejudicial branches will benefit from modernization since their work
will be enhanced, and the institutions they work for will improve, as will organizational culture and
knowledge. Users of the state courts will directly benefit since eighty percent of cases (all civil, family
and commercial cases, as well as criminal cases that do not fall under federal jurisdiction) are handled
there. As noted, in states with better functioning courts, firms are larger and more efficient, a finding
attributed to entrepreneurs' willingness to invest more in their companies when they believe their rights
are more secure".

In particular, socially and economically vulnerable groups such as women and indigenous populations
will benefit from the greater accessibility and openness of the system, including the provision of dispute
resolution alternatives such as mediation. Greater confidence in the justice system would result from
improved performance. It is anticipated that other civil society groups4.g. businesses, tenants' groups
or consumer groups-will       also benefit since their disputes will be more efficiently and equitably resolved.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:

Overall Znstihtional Arrangements. BANOBRAS will be the borrower and implementation agency for
the Project. SHCP would provide the Guaranteefor the FSL (with embedded option to convert disbursed
amount into Pesos). The subprojects would be implemented by the participating states (and judiciaries)
with credit program of BANOBRAS and the World Bank and collaboration of the NCSC and others as
needed. See Annex 4 andChart below.

                                             InstitutionalFramework

                                                                           f
                                                TA (technical
                                                        $ (loan)assistance)  World Bank



                            L[Resources     in
                                 PesosandTA




 loLaevan, Luc, and Christopher Woodruff. 2003. "The Quality of the Legal System, FirmOwnership, and Firm Size." Working
Paper, Universityof Califomia at San Diego, UnderPublication

                                                              13

Project Implementation Arrangements. The Project would be implemented on two levels. The first
(BANOBRAS headquarters level) concerns the central arrangements for the dissemination, supervision,
monitoring and control and learning arrangements for the Bank loan. The second level concerns
subproject implementation arrangements, specifically pertaining to the operational arrangements for the
design and implementation of statejudicial modernizationplans.
BANOBRAS and the Participating States would carry out their respective activities under the Project,
including the Subprojects, in accordance with the OperationalManual (OM), satisfactory to the Bank.
BANOBRAS has already prepared a draft of the OM, satisfactory completion and approval by the Bank
would be a condition for Loaneffectiveness.

The O M would include provisions detailing procedures and guidelines of Project implementation
pertaining to: (i)the Eligibility Criteria (technical and financial, see ahead), and procedures for
BANOBRAS to assess whether a State meets such criteria; (ii)       terms, conditions and standard contractual
provisions for the Credit Agreements andTransfer Agreements; (iii)        terms of referencefor the Participant
States, procedures and timetable for the provision of counterpart funds and the establishment and
maintenance of financial management, disbursement accounting and auditing systems for the Project,
includingthe Subprojects; (iv) Guidelines for the developmentof Judicial Modernization Plans, including
the identification of indicators to monitor progress in the implementation of such plans; procedures,
requirements and standard contractual terms for the procurement of works, goods and consultants'
services financed under the Project, including the Subprojects; (v) terms of reference and proceduresfor
the monitoringand evaluation of Project implementation, (for BANOBRAS) andthe Subprojects (for the
Participating States); and (vi) guidelines for consultation with civil society and the media, and
dissemination of information related to the Project, including the Subprojects; and (vii) a prohibition on
the carrying out of any works under the Project that would trigger the involuntary resettlementof people
and/or businesses from the work sites.

Eligibility Criteria to be used inthe selectionof States to participate inthe Project include:

(1) Technical Criteria: The Judicial Modernization Plan mustbe consistentwith the Project objectives and
viable in terms of having an integrated institutional perspective, promoting a culture of service; and
providing an efficient distribution and management of resources, and should be developed through a
participatory process includingconsultation with relevant stakeholders:

         Integral Perspective: Judicial Modernization Plans should be the product of an organizational
         analysis and should set general and specific objectives and related strategies, measures, and
         activities, derived from such analysis.

         Promotion of a culture of service: The Judicial Modernization Project should state how the
         judicial branch proposes to interact with its users (serve society), and inform them about its work.
         How does the Judiciary plan to analyze the characteristics of its users inorder to effectively serve
         them. How does the Judicial Modernization Plan link its modernization plan to the needs and
         roles of other parties for better administration of justice (e.g., prosecutors, public defenders, etc.).
         Identify vulnerable users andprovide servicesin accordancewith their needs.

         Efficient distribution and management of resources for the implementation of the Judicial
         Modernization Plan: How will the resources requestedbe used to meet the needs so as to meet
         the tests of efficacy (the relationship betweenthe quality of services provided, and their ultimate
         benefits for users); efficiency (the relationship between results obtained and their costs); and
         service quality (the relationship between results obtained and proper standards for judicial
         services).

         Viability without constitutional or legislative reform, includingonly such modernization activities
         (and correspondingresources) that do not require constitutional or legislative reform and can be
         implementedunder current legislative framework. Studies and reviews that would facilitate future
         reforms may be considered.
                                                       14

(2) Financial Criteria: The State interested in participation shall indicate: (a) its commitment andcapacity
to assume Credit obligations, pursuantto the provisions of its Normatividad (local laws and regulations);
and (b) its commitment to provide, in a timely manner and as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resourcesrequiredfor the Subproject, includingthe counterpart funds required to ensure the timely
implementation of the Judicial ModernizationPlan.

BANOBRAS would appoint a team of technical staff (the liaisonteam) at headquarters for: (i)         carrying
out supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, including the Subprojects; (ii)   ensuring
effective coordination and timely exchange of information among the staff of BANOBRAS, the
Participating State, the Judiciary and the Bank; (iii) overseeingthe dissemination and knowledge sharing
and leaming programs and events. Also BANOBRAS would appoint dedicated regional staff in its
decentralized offices (Delegaciones),for (i)  day-to-day coordination of Subprojectswith the Participating
States and the Judiciaries; (ii)
                               ensuring the timely completion of technical, financial, impact analysis and
progress reports to be submitted by the Participating States to BANOBRAS; and (iii)ensuring that
procurement, financial    management and disbursement documentation is submitted to BANOBRAS
headquarters.

Considering that justice sector operationis new for BANOBRAS, an ExternalAdvisory Group has also
been identified for the Project, comprising independent legal andjudicial experts, members of academic
and research institutions, and recognized experts from different disciplines and regions of Mexico.
BANOBRAS may consult these experts on as neededbasis for: (i)           providing overall advice and strategic
guidance onjudicial modemization issues; (ii)    ensuringeffective knowledge sharing and learning among
judicial staff in the Participating States; (iii)proposing effective mechanisms to maintain an ongoing
dialogue with civil society and the media on the judicial modernization process in each Participating
State; and (iv) assessing the soundness of the strategies and activities proposed under the existing and
new Judicial Modernization Plans.

Subproject Approval Procedures (See Annex 4 and OM). A State judiciary interested in requesting
financing from BANOBRAS would, through its State Executive, send a Letter of Intent (Carta de
Zntencidn) with a draft Judicial Modernization Plan and the commitment to allocate the funds, if
approved, to the carrying out of that plan. BANOBRAS would review the Letter of Intent, and assess
whether the State meets the Eligibility Criteria (technical and financial). Once considered eligible, the
State would submit a formal Credit application to BANOBRAS. All Credit applications would be
reviewed by BANOBRAS's operations committee (Comite'Znterno de Cre'dito)as per its credit manual
(Manual del Program de Cre'dito),which sets forth the different terms and conditions for the provision
of Credit. Following the approval of a Credit application, BANOBRAS would enter into a Credit
Agreementwith the Participating State, andwould requirethe Participating Stateto enter into aTransfer
Agreement with the respective Judiciary, including the agreement of the State Executive to transfer
Credit funds to the Judiciary for the implementation of the Judicial Modemization Plan in accordance
with the respectiveState Organic Laws.

Annual Operating Plan (AOP). For the purposes of carrying out the Project, BANOBRAS in
consultation with the Judiciary in each participating state would prepare a consolidated annual operating
plan (AOP), including a description of activities (based on the individual annual operating plans prepared
by each one of the Participating States) proposed for the upcoming year, a budget, a financial plan
(detailing the amount of counterpart funds to be provided in such year), a training and knowledge sharing
program and a procurement plan for the procurement of works, goods and consultants' services required
to carry out such activities.

Subproject Implementation Arrangements. For the design and implementation of state judicial branch
 modernization plans, the Judiciary in each Participating State would establish within the Presidenciadel
 Supremo Tribunal de Justiciu: a monitoring and evaluation committee of judicial experts (CCS)
 supportedby ajudicialmodernizationsupport unit (PCU). PCU functions and responsibilities would
include: (A) providing operational support to CCS; (B) developing, implementing and updating the

                                                       15

Judicial Modernization Plan; (C) collecting and disseminating judicial statistics; (D) disseminating and
publishing court resolutions; (E) conducting stakeholder surveys and public opinion campaigns; (F)
carrying out learning and knowledge sharing events; (G) disseminating good practices and results
achieved throughout the implementation of the Subproject; (H) preparing and submitting reports; (I)
reviewing jointly with BANOBRAS and the Bank, progress achieved by the Judiciary in the
implementation of its respective Subproject Investment Activities, on the basis of the annual operating
plans; and (J) identifying any possible obstacle or difficulty affecting or threatening to affect Subproject
implementation, and proposing appropriate solutions to such obstacle or difficulty. The PCU staff would
include: (i)a coordinator for day-to-day administration, (ii)a full-time procurement specialist for
procurement and records keeping and (iii)a full-time financial specialist for accounting, auditing and
preparation of consolidatedfinancial reportsrequiredby the Judiciary and BANOBRAS and the Bank.

Semi-Annual Project Reviews. BANOBRAS would carry out monitoring and evaluation reviews using
the Monitoring Indicators (see Annex 1) to: (i)   evaluate progress achieved in the implementation of the
Judicial Modernization Plans, the fiscal impact of such plans, including an assessment of the need to
adjust, update or amend such plans; (ii)  assess the timeliness and adequacy of transfer of Credit funds to
the Judiciaries and their provision of counterpart funds; (iii)exchange views on progress achieved in the
implementation of the annual operating plans, during the previous year, and proposed activities for the
upcoming year; (iv) identify any issues that may delay or impede the implementation of the Judicial
Modernization Plans, andproposeany solutions to resolve such issues; (v) review the quality andefficacy
of access to justice programs and strategies referred to in Component D of the Project, and propose any
remedial action, if needed; (vi) evaluate the quality and impact of the knowledge sharing programs to
ensure wide dissemination of lessons learnedand good practices; and (vii) seek the views of the CCS in
each Participating State, the NCSC, the Extemal Advisory Group and other relevant civil society
organizations with regardto the implementation of the Judicial Modernization Plans.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection:
The alternativesconsideredand reasons for their rejection are:

Special features of judicial sector capacity building. Judicial reform and development involves a
complex set of legal, capacity building, access to justice, and cultural factors which cannot be easily
reflected indistinct and manageable policy conditionalities, therefore an adjustmentlending instrument is
not consideredappropriate. Sincejudicial reform is a long term process, an adaptable program loan may
have been feasible, but there is no concrete policy framework at the central or state level that can take on
this responsibility at this time. In view of these complexities, the needs of states and knowledge sharing
requirements, a stand-alonetechnical assistance to participating states is consideredpreferable especially
as the Project focus is to improve institutional performance. The possibility of preparing a LIL (of up to
US$5 million) would be resourcedeficient. Flexibility and timing in the provision of technical assistance
are also consideredkey.

Strengthening generic institutional aspects of judicial performance and learning versus legislative
reform. The current legal framework of state courts already permits change to occur in many key aspects
ofjudicial performance.External issues emerging from the federal courts do create problems for the state
courts, and vice versa, but there is adequate room for improvement at the state level without engaging in
external issues.

In participating states, knowledge-sharing and study activities envisioned under the Project seek to
facilitate future systemic reforms. They also look to help external factors including the subordination of
the state courts through the recourse to amparo at the federal level, and to conduct studies on the
problems of judicial and legislative overlap (concurrencia), on the extent of delay caused by the use of
amparo (direct and indirect) in participating states, and on the legal services market with a view to assess
its impact on judicial pay and incentives, accountability, control and ethics. The review of the legal
services market, given its historical origins and significance, would also identify mechanisms on how to

                                                      16

further improve the quality of the legal profession over the medium term at the national level and in
participating states. It may also include reviews to assess the introduction of oral procedures in different
courts that may help to bridge the current gap between the courts and society. All these studies will
benefit fromthe recently completedresearchproject onjuicio ejecutivo mercuntil."

Promote citizen outreach, transparency and information versus broad anti-corruption measures.
Because of low citizen confidence, a choice is being made to give high priority to promoting citizen
outreachamong all justice sector institutions (e.g. procurudurius, public defender offices, labor and other
tribunals). The kiosks developed by the State of Colima in different public (e.g. municipalities) and
private (e.g. Walmart) institutions that offer citizens legal andjudicial information could serve as a good
model. At the same time, the Government i s pushing anti-corruption independently through its
democratization measures and a broad anticorruptionr'transparency project i s beingpreparedby the Bank
to support these efforts. Also there is a difficulty in consolidating the broad-basedpolitical will to support
the necessary institutional arrangements. Overall, in the participating states a more preventive approach
that raises citizen awareness and builds capacity is considered to be the priority choice. Since the
approach i s to promote learning, experience with the new federal transparency law would be shared with
states, andimprovements encouraged.

Generate "incentives" to improve present legal culture without awaiting new laws to regulate the
market for legal services, and improve sanctions on lawyers engaged in dilatory tactics. The
caseload and high cost of justice are caused by the weak performance of the litigants and their lawyers as
well. Some consultations indicate that the sheer number of law students who enter into the market has
affected the overall quality of new graduates in many states. Laws also discouragejudges from taking a
proactive role in case management. Adapting these laws and streamlining many of these procedures
requires legislative reform that would take time. Instead, culture changing measures to instill a concept of
service addressingthe costs ofjustice for citizens are likely to help build confidence in the system. State
eligibility in the Project depends on a technical evaluation process which uses "promotion of the culture
of service" as a criterion.

2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                   LatestSupervision
                     Sector Issue                             Project                 (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                (Bank-financed projectsonly)

                                                                               Implementation   Development
  Bank-financed                                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective(DO)
 Study -- Court Case Analysis andReformPriorities        Public Sector AAA           S                S
 (JuiciosEjecutivosMercantil)-- 2000-2002
 Other developmentagencies
 USAID-Studies of criminaljustice caseload, Law                  S
 reform.Studies on Oral ProceduresandAccess.
 Mediationtrainingprogram, andTrainingAssistance.




 liHammergrenandMagaloni   2002.
                                                        17

IDB-Plannedsupportfor justice sector                                    NA
Spain -Judicial trainingand scholarshipprogramfor                         s
federaland statejudges to attend trainingcourses in
Barcelona. Summit of the Presidentsof the Supreme
Courts of Iberoamericaand follow-on activities.

EUProgramsfor NGOs,Training, ICTsupport,                                  S
Studies and other areas

Germany Support for studies on oral procedures
                                                                          S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)

In 1999, the ITAM completed the first part of a study entitled La Administracidn de Justicia de las
Entidades Federativas Mexicanas a Partir del Cas0 de la Cartera Bancaria, on the impact of the
macroeconomic crisis of 1995 on state courts' performance.The diagnostic La Justicia Local en Mkxico;
Una Aproximacidn de la Justicia Civil y Mercantil en las Entidades Federativas was completed in 2000.
The third part of the study was completed in 2002, Indicadores de Calijkacidn de la Administracidn y
Justicia Local en las EntidadesFederativasMexicanas.

With the sponsorship of USAID and the U.S. National Center for States Courts, the Instituto de
Investigaciones Juri'dicas of UNAM completed in 2001 the Diagndstico sobre la Administracidn de
Justicia en las Entidades Federativas; UnEstudio lnstitucional Sobre la Justicia Local en Mkxico;

At the request of the Federal District Court, a diagnostic study of Juicios Ejecutivos Mercantil was
completed duringfiscal years 2000-03 by CIDE with Bank financing. The CIDE also started in October
2002 the operation of a StatisticsCenter onJustice andPublic Security.

USAID is also providing technical assistance encompassing: (a) initial researchon criminal case files in
the FederalDistrict and Nayarit State to provide recommendationsfocusing on actions that can be readily
adoptedby state governments without legislative reform; (b) a direct judges training; (c) fostering training
workshops on mediation in several states with the participation of the American Bar Association; and (d)
seminars and studies on oral procedures.USAID is also developing a new program for strengtheningthe
rule of law with special attention to criminaljustice/law reform at federal and state levels (about US$5
million per year for the next few years). As per discussions with USAID officials in Mexico City,
USAID may be able to partner with Bank funded Project in some states (e.g. Baja California) and fund
nationwide researchstudies identifiedunderthe proposedBank supportedProject.

The SpanishAgency for InternationalCooperation (AECI) is currently implementinga bilateral hispano-
mexican cooperation initiative, with counterpart participation from NCSC, with the objective of
strengtheningthejudicial education systemand seeking to share Iberoamerican Networks. The European
Union has a Rule of Law Program for direct financing of civil society organizations and training and IT
support in Hidalgo, Nuevo Le6n for Procuraduria and others. Also there i s assistance for interpreters in
indigenouslanguages. Germany has supportedwith experts inoral proceduresand law reform. The Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) is contemplating lendingto thejustice sector.

A primary list of sector reports and studies (including those commissioned for Project preparation) i s
provided in Annex 8 and some are referenced in the Annexes 9 and 10 on justice sector background,
context and challenges.

3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
Strategies matter. Strategic choices and a strategic perspective must permeate judicial modernization
work. Inthe design of this Project deliberate attention has been paid to the strategic dimension. Both the
National Development Plan and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy give overall direction in which
developmentresources should be marshaledfor this sector. In complementary fashion, our investment in

                                                             18

a deeply participatory methodology insures that we have vital designinputfrom the users and operators of
statejudicial branches-those most directly affected andmost directly influencingmodernization efforts.

Institutions matter. Bank experience in judicial modernization has taught us to value the creation,
strengtheningand optimization of institutions, even as we work with the individual leaders, operators and
users of those institutions. An institutional perspective requires that we focus broadly on the ways in
which users interact with operators, the ways that processes are managed, and the ways institutions
interact with each other. Inthis Project, the institutional perspective is reflected inthe role accordedto the
State Supreme Tribunals of Justice with regard to Project design and implementation. Additionally,
intergovernmental relationships are integrated into the diagnostics of the problems, and the overall
appraisalof the Project.

Ownership, culture and political economy matter. Ownership-a             stakeholder's sense of responsibility
and commitment to a project-is     widely believed to be critical to success. Judicial modernization work i s
no exception, and is expressedat all levels, from the baseto the top of the organizational ladder.

The participatory methodology used in each state has beenthe key to creating a true sense of ownership:
havingjudges and administrative personnel(and users) sit down together in strategic planning workshops
facilitated by the Bank (for the first time intheir careers). This has enriched internal communication in a
way that facilitated common goals to emerge and identify fault lines.

Costs, sequencing, absorptive capacity and sustainability matter. When deciding to commit to a change
initiative, good managers in the public sector, want to know its costs and how these costs will be met. In
the Project, decisions about costs are predicated on the states making an early and conscious decision to
see their participation in the Project as an investment. Once that decision is made, the Project works on
the basis of the "building-block" approach.

Impacts and targeting matter. The Project incorporatesthe lessonthat 'quick wins' are essentialto change
efforts. But such short term gains must be linked to an overall strategy with a long term view, and to
identified needs. Eleven consultative workshops (and follow-on analysis session and working groups)
usingcutting-edgemethodologieshavebeenheldso far, capitalizing on the inputfrom approximately 500
people. An external advisory group has also contributed significant analysis, insight and experiencethat
refine impact. Additionally, with state-specific knowledge of the justice-related needs of disadvantaged
populations, the Project would make use of deeper levels of analysis and flexible design for optimal
impacts that are appropriateto the social context inwhich a particular statejudiciary operates.

Knowledge and leaming matters. Knowledge management and knowledge sharing are means of
leveraging experiencefrom mistakesand successes. They are also a way to avoid 'reinventing the wheel'.
Due to the complex implementation of this Project, monitoring and evaluation and knowledge
management will play acritical role. The accumulation and comparative analysis of the participating state
judiciaries will form a rich bank of data that each participant will benefit from. Knowledge sharing
around the "building blocks" and "good practice" activities are one of the strategic approaches used for
building constituencies, obtaining high level buy-in and stakeholder investment in the Project, and thus,
serving the "learning while doing" approach contemplated for judicial improvements in the participating
states.

4. Indicationsof borrowercommitmentandownership:
The National Development Plan 2001-06 outlines the government's priority of advancing the rule of law
inMexico and building confidence inthe institutions of the State. To achievethis goal, the plan points to
the need to promoterespectfor judicial institutions andthe law by improvingthe quality and accessibility
ofjustice sector institutions.

The SHCP would guarantee the World Bank Loan obtained by BANOBRAS to open a Credit Line for
financing the Projectat the state level.


                                                       19

Ina meeting with Mr.Wolfensohn, the President andhis economic cabinet, identified judicial reformas
one of five areas of special emphasis for future development in Mexico with Bank assistance. In recent
months, the Senior Presidential Advisor in the Fox Administration (in Mexico City), and the Legal
Advisor to the President (in Monterrey) have been briefedon the Project and are seeking to advance the
Project inone or two states inpartnership with NCSC and donors (where possible).

BANOBRAS has taken the lead in Project preparation. Its Director and Manager of new products and
planning has assigned a technical team to work on the preparation of the Project. Technical specialists
have participated in consultation workshops in states and prepared technical inputs for this PAD. The
BANOBRAS representativealso attendedthe first meeting of the External Advisory Group (comprising
members from academia from different parts of the country) which will assist BANOBRAS on an as-
neededbasisto undertakesemi-annualreviews inparticipation with the NCSC.

A high level of commitment to judicial modernization has also been expressed by the Plenary of the
NCSC, the body that has operated as technical coordinator of Bank assistance on Project preparation,
internal review and prioritizationof components.With Bank assistance, it has undertakeninitial strategic
planning and consultation workshops for the preparation of state modernization plans for eleven states.
NCSC continues to promote the Project and encourage other states to begin consultative processes and
introduce planningmechanisms.

Since the main beneficiaries of judicial modernization are the states, State Governors and secretaries of
finance are expressing interest in the Project and are willing to fund state judicial modernization efforts
where inter-branch dialogue and development priorities are clear and forward looking, and where they
recognizethe benefits of improvedjudicial performance on state's social and economic development and
competitiveness.BANOBRAS (via its delegaciones) is currently engagedinfirmingup mediumand long
termdemandfor assistanceinthis sector through consultation with secretaries of finance and governorsin
various states. At the time of negotiations, BANOBRAS had already received a Letter of Intent from
Aguascaliente, Guanajuato, Jalisco and Puebla states, duly signed by the Governor, the President of the
Superior Court and the state secretary of finance.

5. Value addedof Banksupportinthisproject:
The GOM, BANOBRAS and state judicial branchesseek Bank assistance in their judicial modernization
efforts inorder to bringthe Bank's global experienceto bear on these efforts.

Mexico specifically seeks to leverage the Bank's technical assistance in capacity building, knowledge
development, citizen outreach, accesstojustice and other areas for improving the efficiency, transparency
and accessibility of its administration of justice by adopting a learning while doing approach. Bank
assistance would thereby leveragethe knowledge base developed thus far regarding the current needs and
conditions ofjustice administration at different levels, and speedupthe processof transformation.

The Bank's andNCSC's participation with BANOBRAS, SHCP and othersinthe Project preparationand
implementation will promote knowledge and understanding of the judicial sector and may open doors to
reforming other federal and state justice sector institutions over the next years (e.g. there i s compelling
needto improve prosecutionagencies).

Finally, the Bank is a logical partner for BANOBRAS in the pursuit of a clearly long-term goal of
independentjudicial systems, that deliver justice effectively, efficiently and at a reasonablecost.

E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
Other (specify) NF'V=US$ million; ERR= '% (see Annex 4)
Consultations and surveys of both businesses and users reported that resolving disputes through peaceful
means has had an important impact on their business decisions. Improved delivery of judicial services,
efficiency, and transparency of the superior courts would have substantial direct and indirect social

                                                     20

returns, e.g. reducedcosts of litigation and improved collection of outstandingbusinessliabilities. Indirect
benefits include the stable and uniform application of the rule of law, strong business confidence and a
stable investment climate. Moreover, numerous benefits result from lowering the level of corruption,
equitably applying the rule of law, and predictably and uniformly interpretingcommercial laws.

2. Financial(see Annex 5):
NpV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Typically, judicial development and learning are not subject to aconventional financial analysis, as a
substantialpart of the desired outcome is related to improved social outcomes, security and knowledge
that are difficult to relateto financial benefits as well as quantity.

Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal impact of the proposed Project is about US$37 million over five years (about US$5 million total
per state or about 1.0 million per state/year). Reviews indicate that these impacts are small and
manageable. After adjusting for capital investments, improved judicial efficiency should result in courts
delivering a greater volume of judicial services without increase in costs in participating states. Projects'
semi-annual reviews in participating states will include fiscal impact analysis as part of the leaming
exercise to guide future expansion of the Project. A model fiscal impact exercise was already carried out
for Baja California and is available in Project files. Streamlining of state judicial branch administrative
functions would improve financial management and operations of the courts.

3. Technical:
The proposedProject components are technically sound and viable. The Project design i s comprehensive
and detailed: yet also flexible enough to effectively address the diverse set of institutional development
problems identified. As noted earlier, it is built on extensive consultations, reviews of past studies, and
diagnostic studies and modernization plans made during Project preparation with Bank and donor
assistance. Institutional improvement, organizational culture, knowledge development, process
reengineering, community participation and outreach, information technology designs and transparency
programs are part of the proposed Project. A key factor would be the involvement of stakeholders in
diagnostics, the designof solutions, by encouragingparticipatory learningtechniques. Knowledge-sharing
would alsobe promoted.

4. Institutional:
BANOBRAS and participating states' judiciaries will implement the Project and Subprojects,
respectively.

4.1 Executing agencies:
BANOBRAS will oversee coordination of the Project, provide procurement and financial management
training in partnership with the Bank, and facilitate knowledge interchange in liaison with the National
Commission of State Courts, and others, organize semi-annual monitoring and evaluation reviews.

Participating state Cjudiciaries) will set up PCUs for the design and implementation of state judicial
modemization plans (Subprojects) and undertake procurement, financial management and supervision
under the Credit Programof BANOBRASfor judicial modemization.

4.2 Project management:
State Judicial Branch (in participating states), assisted by the PCU (to be created) will be responsiblefor
subproject management. Each PCU will have trained procurement and financial management staff. PCU
will report to the President of the SupremeTribunal of Justice in the participatingstate (with appropriate
approval from the Plenary Chamber(s) of the SupremeTribunal andor Judicial Council).

4.3 Procurementissues:
Procurementassessmenthas been carried out and is available inProject files. The capacity of the
judiciaries as a whole (in participating states) is being strengthenedas part of the Project. PCU staff

                                                        21

would receiveperiodic training andrefreshercourses, along with BANOBRAS staff, on Bank
procurementprocedures.

4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management (FM)assessment was conductedto evaluate the proposedFMarrangements for
the project. This assessment included discussionswith BANOBRAS and visits to the Judicial Powers of
the states of Guanajuato and Colima. On the basis of the assessment, the project financial management
and disbursement arrangements have been developed. The main findings from the FM assessment and
details of the agreedaction plan are provided inAnnex 6.

The participating states must meet a minimum standard of financial management readiness in order to
participate in the proposed Project. FM capacity of participating entities will be determined based on
reviews carried out by BANOBRAS and by Bank FM specialists. These assessments will determine the
institutional strengthening measures required, and any specific FM arrangements to be put in place, for
the individual states. The statejudicial powers must have the capacity to record, control, and manage all
program resources, and produce timely, understandable, relevant, and reliable financial information that
will allow BANOBRAS and the Bank to monitor compliance with agreed upon procedures and appraise
progress in terms of its objectives. The most important FM elements are budgeting, accounting, funds
flow, internalcontrol, reporting, external audit, written procedures,F'M staffing, and information systems.

 5. Environmental:                       Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
No new construction on new sites will be carried out underthe Project. If, however, changes occur during
project implementation (such as in Colima, where a courthouse was severely damaged in the recent
earthquake) that call for new construction on new sites, an environmental assessment will be conducted. It
would include the following activities to mitigate adverse impacts: (i)        preparation of adequate site
screening criteria for site selection; (ii)preparation of environmental guidelines for construction, with
clauses for supervision, which will be included in the bidding documents for contractors; and (iii)
preparation of a construction manual. Bank financing will only be provided when sites, buildings, and
infrastructure are owned by, and legally titled to the judiciary and which do not require the acquisition or
occupation of new land, buildings or infrastructure, and therefore, do not cause the involuntary
resettlementof owners, tenants or occupants of such land, buildings or infrastructure.

5.1 What are the main features of the EMP andare they adequate?NA

5.2 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA: NA

5.3 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposedenvironment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
of consultationthat were usedand which groups were consulted?NA

5.4 What mechanisms havebeenestablishedto monitor andevaluatethe impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?NA

6. Social:
6.1 Summarizekey social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
With a population of about 100million, Mexico i s the third largest nation inLatinAmerica. As a result of
a strong trend towards urbanization in the last quarter century, 75 percent of the population now lives in
urban areas. There are deep regional and ethnic disparities, and a marked north-south divide. About 10-15
percent of the population is indigenous, with the majority living inthe southern states. The gender ratio is
slightly over 50 percent women. Mexico i s an increasingly young country. The average age is currently
28, and 30 percentof the population is under the age of 15, with only 4 percent over the age of 65.

As shown by statistics and user surveys, citizen confidence in the judicial system is very low. Improved
access to justice, transparency, citizen outreach and participation in the judicial system would help

                                                       22

improve public confidence in the Judiciary. The targeting of the socially and economically disadvantaged
and vulnerable groups, such as women, children, and indigenous populations at the state level would
better allocate the current supply of judicial services. Educating citizens on justice-related issues would
help fight corruption and reduceviolence.

As men and women have different legal constraints, the Project would aim to include a gender
perspectivein thejudicial modernization efforts. The systemof justice must see that men and women are
both equally and better protected under the laws, have increased access to the system, and receive
treatment according to their respectiveneeds. This would fall under the recent efforts throughout the LAC
region to implement legislative reforms and strengthen the legal protection of their citizens, especially
with regardto the rightsof women, children and older citizens. However, most of the countries, including
Mexico, show that there i s still a gap betweenthe law andits enforcement.

Consultations indicate that discrimination impedes gender equity at both the user level and withinjudicial
andadministrative staff. Mexico has made significant strides inadvancinggender equity over the last few
decades. While the labor force participation of women has tripled over the last 50 years, more recent
developments have included parity betweenyoung girls' and boys' access to education, and a fostering of
gender related civil society participation and greater public awareness of gender issues. However, women
inMexico continue to face economic and labor-market discrimination, as well as discrimination in the
design and provision of public policy and services, coupled with socially entrenched and discriminatory
gender roles in the family and the work place. Gender-based violence has also been identified as an
ongoing and serious national problem. Broad-based consultations and development studies have
recognized and encouragedthe role of the public sector, includingjudiciaries, in addressingthese issues.
And it is increasingly recognizedthat the adoption of a gender perspectiveinjudicial policy-making and
justice administration, which allows for an understanding of the manner in which men and women
experience poverty and violence differently, as well as inrelation to each other, can aid in mainstreaming
gender equity inan institutionally and socially effective manner.

The federal structure of Mexico means that many of the matters fundamental to the protection of gender
rights fall under state jurisdiction, such as regulations governing the family and the civil life of the
individual, family law, contract law, and criminal law including violent crimes such as homicide,
abduction and rape, of which women are the primary victims (labor law, by contrast, is typically regulated
at the federal level). Since 1995 Mexico has introduced a number of laws, programs andpolicies aimed at
promoting and implementing gender equity. Currently 15 states have legislation that directly addresses
violence against women, and 16 states have specific programs for combating it. The Government's
National Gender Plan, PROEQUIDAD, supports mainstreaming gender in public agencies at both the
 federal and state levels. Coordination mechanisms between INMUJERES (Instituto Nacional de Eas
Mujeres) and State and Municipal authorities are legally established. These include provision for
 knowledge sharing, education about existing gender-based legal instruments, and the training of judicial
 operators on how to incorporate a gender perspective in justice administration. INMUJERES i s also
 responsiblefor collaborating with state gender Institutes.

 Sustaining progress and empowerment for women in Mexico will require addressing a number of
 challenges injustice administration. There is a need now not only to make effective the participation of
 civil society organizations injudicial policy-makingand design, but also to put existing legal and policy
 instrumentsfully into practice and deliver on the international conventions to which Mexico is a signatory
 (CEDAW, BClem do Para). The priority areas for mainstreaming gender issues and awareness include:
 existing institutional and cultural barriers in labor, family and domestic violence matters, children's
 rights, divorce, property division, childcustody and support, and gender specific employment constraints
 and protections, among other things. There is also a need for fostering a culture of non-violence in the
 resolution and prevention of disputes within the home and society, providing adequate support services
 and legal protections, supporting the effective enforcement of legislation, and strengtheninginstitutional
 mechanisms to promote gender equity. Many Mexican women regard the justice system as corrupt,
 complicated, expensive, lacking in service orientation, inefficient and intimidating. And though many
 women of all income levels do not properly understand their legal rights, the situation is most acute for

                                                      23

economically disadvantaged Mexican women who lack the resources, education and skills to access the
justice system. While some focus has been provided onjudicial gender training(public legal educationby
INMUJERES), this needs to be systematized and focused on the state judicial system. Finally,
mainstreaming gender in justice administration requires recognizing the ways in which socially
constructed roles and relationships influence the ability of men and women to participate in and benefit
from thejustice system, and developingjudicial policies that facilitate an equitable participation based on
abroad diversity of social needs.

Mexico's social and cultural diversity is also reflected in its indigenous population, who number
approximately ten percent of the total population (8,381,3 14 according to 2000 census INEGI data;
 12,707,000 according to Mexican Indigenous National Institute data). With a rich cultural and linguistic
heritage, Mexico's indigenous population also experiencescomparatively high incidences of poverty (for
e.g. 386 of the 2,433 municipalities nationally are deemed marginal or in conditions of extreme poverty,
and of these 300 are indigenous municipalities). The social and economic exclusion of indigenous
communities is due to a variety of structural, economic and social factors, as well as a long history of
marginalization, all of which need to be addressed if Mexico's indigenous population i s to be afforded
equitable access to basic services and opportunities. In the last decade there has been increasing
recognition of indigenous rights, development priorities and needs. There is a strong and enduring
tradition of indigenous social and cultural organization in Mexico, including local systems of govemance
in many states (the states with the highest percentages of indigenous population are Veracruz, San Luis
Potosi, Puebla, Guenero, Campeche, Hidalgo, Quintana Roo, Chiapas, Oaxaca, and Yucath. Oaxaca's
indigenous population is 40 percent of the State total. The most frequently spoken languagesare Nauatl,
Maya, Mixteco and Zapoteco.) Activism on the part of indigenous associationshas increasingly focused
on the needfor recognition on the part of justice institutions of their right for equity before the law andfor
judiciaries to meet their cultural, ethnic andlanguageneeds.

The Mexican government has undertakeninitiatives and has set out a number of cross-sectoral strategies,
to supporting equity for indigenous peoples(these are contained in the NationalDevelopment Plan 2001-
2006 and the National Program for the Development of Indigenous Peoples 2001-2006), including
Presidential support for the Justicefor IndigenousPeoples Program of the National Indigenist Institute.
From a gender equity perspective, inter-institutional agreements have been signed by INMUJERES,
governmentand indigenousagencies to implementa number of projects.

One of the key areas of concern in development plans i s the failure of the justice system to provide
accessible justice services in line with indigenous traditions and identities. There are few state
mechanismsfor facilitating access to justice, and priority areas for improvement include the recognition
of property rights; fostering a recognition in justice institutions of indigenous customs and languages;
raising awareness of legal rights among indigenous people; translating and disseminating laws in
indigenous languages; promotingalternative mechanismsand flexible approaches to dispute resolution; to
provide training to indigenous language translators and legal aid operators, among others. Some states
have already begunto introduce innovative approaches to dispute resolution inindigenous areas. Chiapas,
for instance, has set up courts usingcustomary law practices presided over by indigenousjudges in some
municipalities. Quintana Roo has also sought to promote flexibility and interaction between state justice
mechanismsand customary law. InMichoach, the Attomey General's office has implemented a program
dedicated to full access to justice services for indigenous communities. These programs provide a strong
basis for knowledge sharing, social outreach development and institutional capacity building across
different states, and provide an important beginning to what will need to be a concerted effort by state
judiciaries to develop justice services that meet the needs of their diverse populations. Experiences in
other parts of the region and elsewhere could also be leveraged to introduce locally tailored altemative
mechanisms such as community-based mediation centers, or cultural sensitivity training for judicial
operators to deliver on the state judiciaries' responsibility to provide equitable access to justice for all
their citizens.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatingin the project?
The Project hasbeen preparedusinga collaborative participatory approach(see Annex 11for details).

                                                      24

A video of the consultative process (e.g. from ColimaandBajaCalifomia) is available inProject records.

6.3 How does the project involve consultationsor collaboration with NGOsor other civil society
organizations?
The Project has been prepared on the basis of consultations with stakeholdersincluding NGOs and civil
society organizations. Through different mechanisms for civil society and other stakeholder participation,
the Project promotes a strong empowerment approach, expected to have positive results beyond the
project and assure its sustainability.

6.4 What institutionalarrangements havebeenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
    developmentoutcomes?

6.5 How will the project monitor performanceinterms of social development outcomes?
Feedbackand datafrom M&Eof subprojects will help identify goodpracticesas well as problems, and
will serve as abasis for individual subproject adjustmentsandenablethe semi-annual review. Findingsof
the review will be usedfor takingcorrective action, anddissemination of resultsof the overall progressof
the Project and assist inthe creation of future subprojects.

7. SafeguardPolicies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguardpolicies triggered by the project?

                                   Policy                                             Triggered
     EnvironmentalAssessment(OP4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01)                                       No
     NaturalHabitats (OP4.04, BP4.04, GP4.04)                                              No
     Forestry(OP4.36, GP4.36)                                                              No
     PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                               No
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                         No
     IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                            No
     Involuntary Resettlement(OPLBP 4.12)                                                  No
     Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                                       No
     ProjectsinInternational Waters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                              No
     ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)*                                     No


7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies. NA
OD4.20 i s nottriggered, butthat the projectaddressesimprovedaccess of indigenouspeopletojudicial services
throughtrainingto improvejudges awareness of issues relatedto indigenousculture andjustice.
F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
The major risk of this Project's sustainability will be the requirement of continuous leadership and
commitment, and adequate financial and human resources, and support from stakeholders. It also needs
successfulreplication andprocesscontinuation.

Leadership, commitment and buy-in from statejudiciaries is beingpromotedthrough their participation in
the identification of key problems and the formulation of solutions. Commitment of state governors to
judicial investment and its role in state development i s ensured through states' fulfillment of the Project
eligibility criteria, e.g, the execution of a funds Transfer Agreement between a state's executive and
judicial branches.

Financial resourcesfor the judiciary have been difficult to appropriate and tend to be scarce. To mitigate
these, the Project should promote better planning, better appreciation of the investment needed by
policymakers and political leaders and better execution of plans. These factors are encouraged in the
systemfor preparationof subprojects and should increasethe probability of adequate funding.


                                                      25

The demonstration of immediate, medium and long-term results through upfront pilot programs and
activities benefiting different stakeholders should dispel fears, enhance legitimacy and enable the
implementation of more complex and technically difficult activities.

2. CriticalRisks
Overallrisksand remedialmeasures:

Continuity of Project and state judiciary budget approval in participating states. With many
pendingstate elections, the possibility of change inparty affiliation of the governorshipsis real. Mexican
states are moving progressively toward a balance-of-power dynamic, at least between the executive and
legislative branches. High level, multi-party buy-in at both the federal and state level should help ensure
continuous political support for a modernization agenda as well as constant follow-up with state
secretaries of finance.

Continuity and commitmentto modernization. Electoral victories by opposition parties in some states
could result in weak continuity and commitment to modernization. This should be mitigated by the
involvement of the Supreme Tribunal Plenary in the elaboration of State Judicial Branch Modernization
Plans. Mugistrudos and state public officials will also be involved in the implementation of the Project.
The participatory methodology of the Project design should also help. State judiciaries would be
encouraged to seek federal court collaboration and participation in knowledge sharing and training
activities. Such collaboration would help mitigate federal state friction or competition and promote
judicial independence.BANOBRAS will maintain ongoing dialogue with the state governors.

State Judiciaries' Initial Experience. Mexican states' pastjudicial modernization projects have had a
mixedrecord. This has two consequences: difficulty inconceptualizing an integrative approachtojudicial
modernization and in visualizing priorities and sequencing activities. One result i s likely to be an
overemphasison physical infrastructure and automation of processes, insteadof a more holistic approach
to judicial modernization. A workshop on the concepts and dynamics of judicial modernization will be
designed to address this need as part of M&E. In addition, there will be training in Bank proceduresand
norms and hiring of technical staff for project implementation. The creation of a core group of change
`champions' in participating states at all levels in parallel with learning lessons of past development
projects, anda highly participatory method of project conceptualization will also minimize this risk.

Citizenawarenessand commitment. Lack of Project transparencywould worsen the already low public
confidence in the courts. The planned provision of information should help create support for change
among citizens. Social communication activities to be included in state judicial modernization plans will
help build constituencies and champions. Support for change and modernization will also be generated
by the aforementionedchange champions as well as implementation of demonstrationpackages.

BANOBRAS' initial experience with judicial sector. BANOBRAS will be entering a new sector of
public service lending. In order to build BANOBRAS' knowledge of the judicial sector and its special
needs, the Project will promote partnership exchange with NCSC and other relevant institutions. Semi-
annual review of the Project will further strengthen BANOBRAS' understanding of judiciary-specific
work.

Diversityof states' needs,governancestructures, and modernizationplans. Modernization needs will
vary widely from state to state. This diversity will lead to complexity in implementation, to be addressed
by the flexible Project design. Semi-annual Project reviews and continuous knowledge-sharing among
states will further help mitigate such problems. If states find it difficult to prepare technically viable
modernization plans, the proposed Project contemplates the provision of technical assistance for their
preparation, andfulfillment of eligibility criteria for subproject participation.




                                                       26

For summary and ratings see table below.

                          Risk                            Risk Rating                  Risk MitigationMeasure
 FromOutputs to Objective

 Continuity of the Project and statejudiciary                 S        High level buy-in, engagement, constituency building,
 budget approval                                                       participatory project design


 Continuity andcommitment to modemization by                  S        Plenary approval of Modernization Plans, constituency
 Superior Tribunals                                                    building, broad participation inimplementation


 State Judiciaries' InitialExperience in Managing            M         Workshop on the concepts anddynamics ofjudicial
 Multilateral Projects                                                 modernization, project-related training inBank
                                                                       procedures and norms, andhiringof technical staff for
                                                                       project implementation. Creation of a core group of
                                                                       change `champions'


 Citizen awareness and commitment to judicial                 M        Workshop onjudicial modemization, training inBank
 modernization                                                         norms, change champions, knowledge sharing; Social
                                                                       communication, knowledge sharing, demonstration
                                                                       projects

 BANOBRAS' initial experience withjudicial                     S       Promote BANOBRAS and NCSC partnership exchange
 sector                                                                and conduct semi-annual M&Ereviews


 Complexity of implementation and states inability            M        Flexibility inProject Design, knowledge sharing, and
 to meet eligibility criteria (e.g. technical viability                provision of technical assistance for refinement and or
 of statejudicial branch modernizationplans                            development o f plans


 FromComponentsto Outputs

 Inadequate fundinglresources due to fiscal                            Resourcesto be securedup front inparticipating states

                                                                       Have a liaison coordination team assignedat the highest
 BANOBRAS and other agencies                                           level inBANOBRAS

I Slow or inadequate staffing and resourcesfor the     I      M        Follow up with state courts and ensure that operation
I
i                                                                      costs are included inmodemization plan costs and
 pcu                                                                   funding proposals.

                                                                                                                               ~

 Resistancefrom interest groups that could oppose              S       Initialfocus on states where there is consensusamong
 improvement programs                                                   the policy makers and willingness to start or advance
                                                                        modemization




                                                             27

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions

   0    Completed Operational Manual detailing proceduresand guidelines for implementation including
        semi-annualM&E,financial management, audit and learning functions andtheir TORS.
   0    Completed Project ProcurementPlan.
   0    Bank receipt of BANOBRAS Resolution describing its judicial modernization credit program
        (the Credit Program), including terms, conditions, and other provisions regarding financing to
        Participating States. The Resolution would call for Subproject Agreements to be entered into by
        the Borrower andat least oneParticipatingState.

2. Other (Project Implementation)

    0   The Borrower, will enter into Subproject Agreements with the Participating States for the
        funding of state judicial modernization plans, in line with the terms and conditions of an
        agreement (the Credit Agreement), to be entered into between the Borrower and a Participating
        State, pursuant to contractual provisions set forth in the Operational Manual. It will also cause
        each Participating State to transfer to the Judiciary proceedsof Credit Programresources under an
        agreement (the Transfer Agreement) to be entered into between them, pursuant to provisions set
        forth inthe Operational Manual.
    0   The Borrower will prepare a consolidated annual operating plan (AOP) satisfactory to the Bank,
        in consultation with the Judiciary of each Participating State, and in accordance with guidelines
        of the Operational Manual, by not later than January 31 of each year of Project implementation,
         startingonJanuary 31,2005.
    0   The Borrower will appoint, and thereafter maintain, untilthe completion of the Project a team of
        technical staff (the liaison team) drawn from the Borrower's headquarters' offices and
        Delegaciones responsible for coordination of Subprojects with the Participating States and the
        Judiciaries.
    0   For the purposes of carrying its Subproject activities, the Judiciary ineach Participating State will
        establish and maintain, within the Presidencia del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia, until the
        completion of the respectiveJudicial Modernization Plan a monitoring and evaluation committee
         of judicial experts (CCS) and a judicial modernization support unit (PCU) with functions and
        responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
         The Borrower in close consultation with the Participating States will carry out a Semi-annual
         Project implementation review by March 31 and September 30 of each year based on the reports
         submitted by the Participating States.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
The engineeringdesigndocumentsfor thefirst year's activities are complete andready for the start of
project implementation. N/A.




                                                      28

1. Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




                                      Uf*
kaleed H.Malik                          RonaldE.Myers
Task Team Leader                        Sector Managermirector




                                                   29

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary

               MEXICO: StateJudicial ModernizationSupportingAccess to Justice Project


                                 Key Performance         Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives              Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:        Sector1country reports:          (fromGoalto Bank
                                                                                        Mission)
1. Governance, service and   1. Improvedjudicial       Reports and Statistical data on  Upgrade the statejudicial
transparency improved.       services inparticipating  social and economic indicators   systems to promote social,
                             states.                   issuedby Mexican public          and economic development.
                                                       institutions, BANOBRAS, the
                                                       Participating States or the
                                                       Judiciaries.

Project Development          OutcomeIImpact            Project reports:                 (from Objectiveto Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Support the improvement of   1. Stakeholdersatisfaction Semi-annualM&Eand               GOM, BANOBRAS, the
institutional performance of     on the efficacy of     learning reviews, and other     Participating States, the
judiciaries in a few states      modernization          instruments such as             Judiciaries and other public
through BANOBRAS's credit        activities.            government andjudiciary         and private institutions
program for statejudicial                               reports, resource allocation    remaincommitted to judicial
modernization by learning    2. Improvedcapacity        reports, academicstudies, field modernization.
while doing..                    building and           visits, annualreports, surveys
                                 communication          and statistical studies, media
                                 practices.             reports, focus groups,
                                                        community and vulnerable
                                                        grouv reviews.




                                                       30

 Outputfrom each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:                                from Outputsto Objective)



 A. Strenethenin            1.1. Improved information   Semi-annual M&Eand learning reviews,            I.State Judicial Branches and
 institutional cauabilities development for             and other instrumentssuch as govemment          :ollaborating institutions implement
 culture and knowledge.     institutional planning and  andjudiciary reports, resource allocation       xquired changes and maintainsthe
                            extemal services.           reports, academic studies, field visits, annual iarticipatory process for
                                                        reports, surveys and statistical studies,       mplementation.
                                                        mediareports, focus groups, community,          2. Policy makers and staff maintain
                                                        vulnerable group and businessgroup              ncentives for effective use of new
I                                                       reviews.                                        systems
                                                                                                        3. Communities, businesses and
 B. Imuroving efficiency    2.1. Reduction incase       Semi-annual M&Eand learning reviews,            3ther stakeholders support the
 and effectiveness of       processing times.           andother instruments such as government         program
 Judicial Services.                                     andjudiciary reports, resource allocation       4. M&Ereviews completed on time
                                                        reports, academic studies, field visits, annual 5. Leaming and knowledge
                                                        reports, surveys and statistical studies,       activities continuously inform
                                                        media reports, focus groups, community,         projectdevelopment and
                                                        vulnerable group andbusiness group              implementation
                                                        reviews.


 C. Increasingjudicial      3.1. Increased availability Semi-annual M&Eand learning reviews,
 transoarencv.              of public information.      andother instruments such as govemment
                                                        andjudiciary reports, resource allocation
                            3.2. Increased              reports, academic studies, field visits, annual
                            opportunities for           reports, surveys and statistical studies,
                            community engagement.       media reports, focus groups, community,
                                                        vulnerable group and business group
                                                        reviews.


  D. Strenethenine access   4.1. Increasesinnumber of   Semi-annual M&Eand leaming reviews,
  to iustice for All Users. users from vulnerable       and other instruments such as govemment
                            groups accessingjudicial    andjudiciary reports, resource allocation
                            services.                   reports, academic studies, field visits, annud
                                                        reports, surveys and statistical studies,
                                                        media reports, focus groups, community,
                                                        vulnerable group and business group
                                                        reviewq.
                                                        Semi-annual M&Eand learning reviews, and
  E.Proiectcoordination,    5.1 Improved application    other instruments such as govemment and
  monitoring and            of project know-how and     judiciary reports, input from the proceedings
  evaluation, and leaming.  skills through learning     o f the NationalCommission of State Courts
                            processes.                  proceedings, resource allocation reports,
                                                        good practice reviews, academic studies,
                                                        field visits, annual reports, surveys and
                                                        statistical studies, media reports, focus
                                                        groups, community, vulnerable group and
                                                        business group reviews.




                                                                      31

monitoring and evaluation,
and learning.
Front EndFee                US$0.30 Million
Total Cost                  US$ 37.50 Million




                                                32

                                     Annex 2: DetailedProject Description

              MEXICO: StateJudicial ModernizationSupporting Access to Justice Project

The Development Objective (DO) of the proposedProjectis to support the improvement of institutional performance
of judiciaries in a few states through BANOBRAS's credit program for state judicial modernization by leaming
while doing.

Specifically, the Project would: (a) strengthen institutional capabilities, organizational culture and knowledge; (b)
strengthenefficiency and effectiveness ofjudicial services; (c) improvejudicial transparency; (d) increase access to
justice for all users; and (e) support Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and leaming, including
consultation with Project stakeholders.

The Project would fund Subprojects in "participating states"-essentially the design and implementation of
integratedstatejudicial branch modernization plans-that     are consistent with the Project's objectives.

Four objectives (see ahead) have been identified as preconditions to enable the state judiciaries to deliver adequate
justice services.Each comprisesa thematically linkedstrategy to be developedtowards the fulfillment of the overall
objective. These thematic, flexible components are the "building blocks" that will guide the current and future
development of specific state judicial branch modernization plans and their implementation. Each state judicial
branch participating in the project will determine which approaches-and thereby which programs-it will adopt,
according to its individual needs and capabilities. Each component of the framework includes a series of institutional
performance indicators to aid in determining the degree to which each state court system has met its operational
objectives.

Judicial performance improvement would be approached from an institutional "modernization" perspective. This
 perspective involves integral diagnostics of the operational problems, analysis of the demand for and supply of
judicial services, promotion of a service culture, and efficient distribution and management of resources. Learning
 amongand within statejudiciaries, BANOBRAS, academic and user groups would also be encouraged, inparticular
 the sharing of good practicesand monitoringand evaluation (M&E) activities.

 Participating states are those states (and judiciaries) that meet eligibility criteria for receiving funding under the
 credit program for judicial modernization. The criteria would include: (a) technical merit and viability of the state
judicial branch modernization plan for institutional improvements; and (b) financial viability of the state to
 participate in BANOBRAS's credit program for these activities.

 Project development has been participatory and would continue through implementation, involving consultations
 with localqjudges, court administrators and users in participating states. Coordination for consultations with states
 has been through the Comisidn Nacional de Tribunales Superiores de Justicia (National Commission of State
 Courts) in liaison with the Secretaria de Hacienda y Crkdito Pziblico (SHCP) and BANOBRAS. So far
 modernization plans have been drafted by eleven states (Aguascalientes, Baja California, Chihuahua, Colima,
 Guanajuato, Nayarit, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, Puebla, Sonora, and Estadode Mexico). A technical mapping of these
 draft modernization plans i s provided as a working guideline for states in advancing planning initiatives, and for
 BANOBRAS to help make decisionson funding the diverseplans(ref. Annex 11).

 The Project is divided into five inter-related components to serve as the basis for the subprojects (design and
 implementation of integrated state judicial branch modernization plans for institutional improvements in
 participating states). SeeBox 2.1 with an examplefromColima.




                                                           33

                                   Box 2.1: Pro-iect& Subproject Framework




   OVERALLCHALLENGESIDENTIFIEDBY
   THEJUDICIARYAND THESTATE
      SOCIAL ECONOMICPROFILE

      JUDICIALPROFILE AND SECTOR WIDE
      OPERATIONS:
   -SupremeCourtofJustice(13Judges)
   -2 ComprehensiveChambers and2 Criminal
   Chambers
   -First InstanceCourt (19Judges)
   -7 ComprehensivePeaceCourts of Personal
   Jurisdiction: 145 staff)
   -Personal Administration: 163 staff
   -Caseload highinurbanareas andlow inrural
   municipalities
   -Inter-institutionalcoordinationandoperation
   -Strengths andpartnerships
   -Otheraswts                                                     E. Coordination,M&EandLearning




                                                          SOMESTRATEGIES               INDICATORS

                                                       TO FORTIFYTHEJUDICIAL             LEVELOFUSER
                                                    I  ORGANIZATIONAND THE               SATISFACTIONWITH
                                                       ALTERNATIVEMEDIA OF               THF FFFIPIFNCY OFTHF
                                                                                         ...--. ._ -. ..-
                                                                                                . .--     .
                                                       CONFLICTRESOLUTION                CASEPROCESSING

                                                       DEVELOPTHECOhC"NCIES,             LEVELOF USER
                                                       AND ATITUDES OFTHE
                                                       HUMAN RESOURCES                   SATISFACTIONWITH
                                                                                         CHANGEAND
                                                                                         INFORMATfON
                                                       SIMPLINTHE
                                                       ADMINISTRATIVEPROCEDURES          LEVELOF OPERATIONAL
                                                                                         TRANSPARENCY
                                                       SENSITIZEDIFFERENTPUBLIC
                                                       POWERSAND CIVIL SOCIETY




ComponentObjectivesandDescriptionofPotentialSupportActivities:

A broad "menu" and interrelated set (consistent with the "learning by doing" approach) of activities are designed
for the Project, to accommodate diverse institutional and knowledge needs of the justice institutions and
BANOBRAS. They also would provide flexibility in design of subprojects to be presented for funding and help the
BankandBANOBRAScollaborateinthis operation.

ComponentA. Strengtheninginstitutionalcapabilities,cultureandknowledge.

A.l. Carryingoutspecializedstudies

    A diagnostic study and comprehensive evaluation of eachparticipating Judicial Branch will assess its mode of
    operation, organizational structure, procedures and output. It will include a review of the Judicial Branch's
    functional and operational variables, human resources, efficiency, transparency and accessibility. Also, the
    functions of attorneys and agents of the District Attorney's and Public Defenders' Offices will be reviewed;

                                                         34

    users' perceptions of the services provided by the Judicial Branch will be examined as well. [Sample reviews
    (e.g. Argentina, Georgia, Guanajuato (draft) are inproject files and other researchandassessment is inprogress.]

A.2. Strengtheninginstitutionalcapabilities

    A strategic planning and budgetprogramming system will include the definition of goals, the design of policies,
    and the coordination of programs to achieve specific goals andfacilitate the application of strategic policies and
    planning.

    A systemfor thefollow-up, control and evaluation of jurisdictional and administrative management and user
    satisfaction. A system will be developed for measuring the performance of the Judicial Branch and judicial
    operators: at the macro level (Judicial Branch satisfaction), at a general level (quality, standard of service, cost,
    opportunity, innovation), at a more specific level (efficiency, productivity, response time); and for measuring
    user satisfaction.

    A program for strengthening the technical capabilities of judges and project administrators for the
    implementation of thejudicial modernization plan will consist of enhancing the conditions and capabilities of
    the Judicial Branch in such areas as strategic planning, judicial organization, technology, and legislative
    changes.

    A program for disseminating institutional innovations and transformations will identify priority issues of the
    modernization process. This will include designinga social communication strategy to disseminatekey issues of
    the program. Information about the objectives of the program, and institutional changes and achievements, will
    beprovided to users.

    A participation program for evaluation and public feedback on institutional innovations and transformations
    will include the organization of working and focus groups of users, civil society organizations, academia, public
    and other judicial sector institutions for evaluation of modernization strategies and action plans, achievements
    andimpacts.

A.3. Culturalchange

    A program of consciousness raising and change managementfor judicial operators to develop behavior and
    attitudes consistent with a greater culture of public service and continuous improvement in its delivery. It will
    include the design and implementation of a strategy covering: i)human resources, encompassing formal and
    informal roles and functions, hierarchical levels and incentives; ii)a range of methodologies for acquisition and
    dissemination of knowledge in technical and other areas; iii)leadershipdevelopment, including the promotion of
    innovative, creative andtransparent leadershipinchange management andinstitutional modernization.

    Public outreach and educational campaigns to promote a changes in perceptions and attitudes across social
    sectors. This will include the identification of priority issues and achievement of results in modernization, and
    the design and development of a public outreach strategy to educate users about these activities within a
    participatory modernization programdirected at internal andexternal stakeholders.

A.4. Knowledgesharing

    A knowledge sharing programfor judges, justices and other judicial operators, members of local public sector
    institutions, universities, research institutions and others on the actions and issues            in the    judicial
    modemization process. This component will promote and support the organization of periodic meetings of
    Superior Court Justices, and representatives of the Judicial Councils and of Judicial Training and Research
    Centers. It would also apply to first instance and small claims judges, administrators of other institutions of the
    State public sector, public defenders, members of district attorneys' offices, legal professionals, academics, and
    members of researchinstitutions.


                                                           35

   A national, regional and when relevant international exchange program for sharing experiences in judicial
    reform and modemization to promote knowledge sharing aboutjudicial reform in other states, the Federallevel,
    as well as other countries.

   A workshop and seminar program onjudicial reform and modernization topics will involve the organization of
    local, national and intemational seminars and workshops on priority issues of modemization processes.

    Publication of information about changes in thejudicial system through modemization and reform processes.

Component B. Efficiency and effectivenessof Judicial Services.

B.l. Carrying out specialized and applied studiesininstitutional efficiency andeffectiveness

    Studiesof courtprocedures (e.g. civil procedure codes) as well as other provisions that govern thejurisdictional
   function (e.g. Organic codes of the judiciary in participating states): access to justice of different groups;
    alternative dispute resolution mechanisms; demandfor judicial services; the cost of justice in Mexico; judicial
   federalism, intemational best practices in judicial pedormance measurement and its applications in Mexico,
    enforcement of judicial resolutions.

B.2. Improvingmanagement, procedures andorganization

    Organizational and ManagementModel of the Supreme or Superior Tribunal of Justice,first instance courts and
    lower courts. Activities under this component will include: reorganizing the functioning of the Tribunal and
    courts through the optimization and rationalization of resources and materials, the development of new working
    methods, and the systematization of jurisdictional and administrative procedures of the courtrooms of the
    Tribunal and lower courts; designing and implementingan organizational model for the Tribunal and the courts;
    rationalizing administrative andjurisdictional proceduresand defining occupational profiles of human resources
    in line with a new Organizational and Management Model. [An example from Puebla is available in Project
    files]

    Organizational and ManagementModel of the administrative structure of the Judicial Branch. Activities under
    this component will include the analysis of prior studies and assessments, and of the normative framework and
    administrative structure of the Judicial Branch to establish a clear definition and a distinction between its
    jurisdictional and administrative ambits. Activities will also include the definition of the function and entities
    responsible for finance administration, administrative agencies, and the design of financial policy and
    coordination mechanisms. Specific policies for human resources management will be developed and
    implemented. These will also be developed for human resources support and assessment services, as well as
    Institutionalcoordination and participation mechanisms.

    Coordination and Communication Model. Activities under this component will include developing and
    implementing efficient organizational methods and mechanisms for the administrative and jurisdictional
    structure of the Judicial Branch to improve the coordination and communication of intemal and inter-
    institutional activities (such as labor courts administeredby executive branch, registries, credit bureaus etc.)

    Case backlog reduction programs. An inventory of existing cases in each court will be drawn up, and backlog
    reduction measuresestablishedto reducecase congestion.

    A case distribution program will be designed and implemented for workload rationalization according to
    proximity, accessand service demand.

B.3. Humanresourcesdevelopment (Professional development andcareer systems)

    Design and implementation of a judicial career system. Activities under this component will include the
    definition of hiring procedures and of methodologies and criteria for the evaluation and selection of applicants;

                                                            36

   the definition of the criteria and requirements for promotion; appointments and transfers, and evaluation of the
   performance of judicial personnel. A curricular and judicial career follow-up database will be designed and
   developed.

   Design and implementation of ape8ormance evaluation systemfor jurisdictional and administrative personnel
   will help determine the capabilities of individuals and groups for improved placements and enhanced
   performance.

   A comparative study of salaries will be carried out for analysis of scales inother local public sector agencies, the
   FederalJudicial Branchand other state institutions both federal and local. The study will assist in the design of a
    morecompetitive salary scale for stateJudicial Branches.

   Design and implementation of an incentive systemfor Judicial Branch personnel, commensurate with financial
    conditions.

    Design and implementation of a retirementplanfor judicial branch personnel.

    Design and implementation of a Social Security benefits system and mechanisms for improving working
    conditions. Activities under this component will include the design and installation of administrative
    mechanisms for the payment of social security benefits of Judicial Branch personnel; and the introduction of
    policies for improving working conditions.

B.4. Systematization andautomation ofjurisdictional andadministrative procedures

    Integrated Case Management and Documentation System for the Superior Tribunal of Justice,jirst instance
    court and lower courts. This will entail the creation of data models for the various jurisdictional processes,
    definition of the entry and exit datarequirementsfor eachprocess, the designof automation models required, the
    development of case follow-up, and court calendar and document management modules; the design of the
    systemprototype, the codification and testing of the prototype, the launching of the prototype and its validation
    by users. The detaileddesignwill also include mechanismsfor their integration with other systems.

    Integrated Administration, Finance and Human ResourcesSystem. This systemwill require the creation of data
    models for these processes, definition of their entry and exit data requirements, design of automation models
    required for administrative functioning of the Judicial Branch, with modules on: personnel and payroll, finance,
    accounting, supplies and procurement, budget, strategic decision-making.

B.5. Developingsupport unitsfor training, researchandinformation

    Organizational and Management Model for the Judicial Training and Research Center. Development of a
    competenceand knowledge model and the definition of occupational and/or role profiles, and the incorporation
    of new technologies for processinginformation in line with the modernization process; updating the educational
    needs map of employees, development of an institutional curriculum, the review and adjustment of the
    educationalassessment systemof the Center and its organizational model.

    Specialization, admissionand continuing educationprogramfor judicial operators. This component will include
    the developmentof the curricular andinstructional planfor courses in specializedjuridical and legal matters.

    Judicial Management Training Program for judicial operators of all levels. This component will include the
    identification of the trainingneeds of thejudicial operatorsat all levels, and development of their modules.

    Training program in management skills for administrative personnel. This component will include the
    identification of the training needs of managerial, professional and technical personnel, and the design and
    development of modules inaccordance with those findings.


                                                         37

   Pilot virtual classroom. This component will include the assessment of the Center's capability for the
   development of distance learningalternatives, includingg virtual classroom.

    Virtual Library and Documentation Center. A virtual library and judicial documentation center would provide
   information and communication resources for Centerandcenters in otherjudicial districts.

B.6. Provisionof adequateinfrastructureandequipment

    Design and implementation of a Strategic IT Plan. This component will include updating technological and IT
    infrastructures, defining strategies for their development and for the operation of information technology at the
    Judicial Branch.

    Strategic planfor construction, rehabilitation and remodeling. This component will include the developmentof
    a plan for the new functional system and vision for all state judicial centers contemplated under the Project for
    construction, remodeling or rehabilitation.

   Acquisition of computing, printing and communication equipment. This component will include the
    identificationof ICT equipment needs, the automation of lT systems andthe projected organizational model; the
    elaboration of technical specifications and procurement documents; and the definition of a plan for their
    procurement and installation.

    Networks and Communication Plan. This component will include the assessment of the geographic conditions
    and communication services of the State, and of the requirements of a technology platform for the Judicial
    Branch; the design of the technical specifications of the networks and communication platform of the Judicial
    Branch; the installation of networks, communication equipment andcontracting selectedcommunication service.

Component C. Increasingjudicialtransparency

C.l. Carryingout specializedandappliedstudiesfor improvingtransparency

    Diagnostic study of disciplinary systems, access to information, accountability mechanisms, social
    responsibility, and judicial ethics. This component will include analyses of data on the current situation and
    problems, of alternatives for remedying judicial problems in the area of judicial transparency. These studies
    may also cover anti-cormption laws and their enforcement.

C.2. Promotinginformationandcommunicationmechanisms

    Judicial Information and Documentation Centers (centralized and or mobile}. This component will include the
    creation of new or strengthening of existing units responsible for the dissemination of information about
    jurisdictionaland administrative procedures, andfor the management ofjudicial documentation.

    The creation of new or strengthening existing Information and Citizen Orientation OfJices. Decentralized
    offices will be established in judicial centers, providing information and communication resources for users
    aboutthe functioning ofjudicial services, servicerequirements, methods and evaluation mechanisms.

    The creation of new or strengthening existing mechanisms for the dissemination and promotion of range of
    services. These mechanisms will promote the social projection of justice and of judicial culture, through the
    creation of new or the strengtheningof existing legal education and information campaigns in response to the
    legal and judicial education needs of the population. These campaigns will be tailored to these needs, as
    detected, and will principally deal with family law, criminal, labor, maritime and civil law and other matters of
    public interest, as well as provide information about the functioning and structure of thejudicial system.

    Programfor promoting annual petj6ormance reports of theJudicial Branch and auxiliary institutions.


                                                           38

C.3. Disciplinary and accountabilitymechanisms

    System of oversight, investigation and discipline of judicial operators. This component will include the review
    of the current legislation that regulates the oversight and control of judicial operators, a comparative analysis of
    oversight and disciplinary mechanisms of other judicial systems to facilitate the definition of criteria for
    improving oversight principles and policies.

    Design and development of a Judicial Code of Ethics. This component will provide for drawing up ethical
    principles, values and conduct for governing the ethical delivery of justice administration services, disciplinary
    measures and dealing with non-compliancewith the Code of Ethics.

    Systemfor complaints againstjudicial operators. This component will include the development of mechanisms
    and procedures and the definition of responsibilities (e.g. visitadurias) for the receipt, investigation and
    processingof complaints againstjudicial personnel.

    Social responsibility and accountability program. This component will include the design andimplementation of
    accountability mechanismsfor the personnelof the Judicial Branch.

    Program for access to information about administrative and jurisdictional management. This component will
    include the design of various channels for accessto information about management of the Judicial Branch.

C.4. PublicAwareness

    The organization and implementation of a program of events aimed at disseminatingthe benefits of an enhanced
    transparencyofjudicial processes, such as, the strengthening of oral trials,

Component D. Strengtheningaccesstojustice for all Users.

D.l Carryingout specializedandapplied studiesfor strengtheningaccesstojustice.

    Diagnostic studies of the current situationfor women, indigenous communitiesand other vulnerable groups with
    respect to thejustice administration system, of user perceptions of thejustice system, and an assessment of the
    current supply of judicial services, among others.

D.2. Special attention to women, minors, small businesses,indigenous,the poor andsociallydisadvantaged

    A program for the organization of outreach events to provide citizens with a greater understanding of the
    functioning of the Judicial Branch, of individuals' rights and responsibilities, and for judges to gain a greater
    understandingof their social context.

    A school orientation and education program for children and adolescents to give youths especially from
    indigenouspopulations a greater understandingofjustice administration and services.

    Programs on gender based violence, promoting a gender dimension in judicial systems, indigenous access to
    justice, and other sensitive issues incommunity seminars and workshops.

D.3. Alternative mechanismsfor the resolutionof disputes

    The creation of new, or the strengthening of existing, alternative dispute resolution institutional mechanisms,
     includingthe provision of training of personnel, materials and equipment and infrastructure rehabilitation, and
    the carrying out of awareness-raisingand educational campaigns.




                                                            39

D.4. Diversifying the range ofjudicial services

    Program for strengthening small claims justice at the municipal level. This component will include the
    assessment of the current situation as regards the organization, proceduresand human resources at small claims
    courts; the design and development of measures for improving their organization and processes, and training
    courses for their personnel. Physical infrastructure will be enhanced for these and ICT and network equipment
    installed.

    Designandimplementation of amobile small claims courtsprogram injudicial districts.

D.5. Adaptinginfrastructureto users' needs

    New information and orientation centers at key judicial buildings would provide comprehensive, up-to-date
    information and assistance to professionalsand the general public. In addition, physical spaces in key judicial
    centers will be rehabilitated to accommodatethe needs of user services.

D.6. Strengtheningpublicdefender andlegalaidservices

    Trainingprogram for Public Defenders in public defense skills and techniques.This component will include the
    design and preparationof the curricula and instructional planfor skills andtechniques development.

    New legal aid and orientation program. This component will provide for the implementation of legal aid
    offices inJudicial Branch, Public Defendersoffices and locallaw schools for assistance to vulnerable groups.

    Knowledge exchange program among the Judicial Branch, prosecutors' ofices and civil society organizations
    and others. This component will include the organization of workshops and seminars on problems facing the
    Statejustice system.

D.7. Strategies for improving collaboration with attorneys

    A program for exchange, interaction, and information between the Judicial Branch and legal professionals
    through the creation of agencies responsible for institutionalcoordination and communication mechanismswith
    State lawyers' andbar associationsto improvejustice administration; andhelp advancejudicial modemization.

Component E.Project Coordination, Monitoringand Evaluation, andLearning

    E.1. Support for the Design and Operation of the State PCUs, Promotion of Good Practices and
    Knowledge Sharing. Coordination and management of Subprojects. This component would include the
    strengtheningof the coordination, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the Participating States, through the
    establishment andoperation of a PCUineach Participating State and the provision of training for PCU staff; the
    development of project administration, financial management and procurement administration capabilities for
    Project staff; the development and organization of inter-intra State knowledge sharingprogramsto promote good
    practices, the results and lessons learned during the implementation of the Judicial Modernization Plans, in
    partnership with NCSC and other relevant institutions; and the development of strategic actions andthe carrying
    out of studies which may contribute to the development of sector- widejudicial modemization.

    Promote collaboration and good practices through a Program for technical assistance to NCSC in priority
    issues of judicial modemization and medium term interests. Activities under this component will include support
    for the (a) the hiringof short-term national or international consultants, academic institutions, consulting firms
    andothers for research studies to assess and support modemization processes at the local Judicial Branches, in
    areas such as strategic planning, judicial organization, technology, legal and code reforms, among others; andto
    assist the National Commission of Superior Tribunals of Justice in the formulation and implementation of
    specific strategies and action plans to guide the modernization process nation-wide; (b) technical conferences

                                                          40

   of the local Judicial Branches to facilitate knowledge sharing and thereby strengthen their operations; and (c)
   promotion of a dialogue and exchange with civil society organizations, users and other public and private
   institutions. Funds for this activity would be sought through Federal Contribution as counterpart and or Grants
   (where possible). Detailed TORSfor strengtheningNCSC are providedinAnnex 12.

E.2. Support for Strengthening BANOBRAS's Capability to Supervise the Project, Conduct Semi-Annual
M&EReviews, PromoteLearningandPrepare FutureProjects.

       Project and Subproject supervision capacity. This component would include support for BANOBRAS'
        carrying out semi-annual Project monitoring and evaluation reviews with NCSC and other agencies
        participation (as needed) and the disseminationof the results of such reviews; and the provision of technical
        assistance for: (i)the identification of new States interested in participating under the Project, and the
        preparation of Judicial Modemization Plans for such States; and (ii) preparation of future projects aimed
                                                                            the
        at supporting the implementation of additionaljudicial modemization plans.




                                                         41

                                               Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs

           MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupporting Access to Justice Project




Price Contingencies                                                                0.00                 0.00                    0.00
                       Total ProjectCosts'                                         32.5                 4.70                    37.2
                                               Front-endfee                                             0.30                    0.30
                 Total FinancingRequired                                           32.5                 5.OO                    37.5


                                                                                 Local           I    Foreinn          I       Total




   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) andthe total project cost, net of taxes, i s 30 (USsm). Therefore. the project cost sharing
ratiois 80% of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                       42

          Annex 4: ImplementationFrameworkfor Subprojects

 MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationProjectSupportingAccessto Justice




         n                         n                    Un                   U n
                                                                                           I
      I

                Disseminationof Project & Subproject          I-bI      Letter of Intent
                                                                               I
                                                                       I                   I




          Supervise, Evaluateand Integrate   4       Collaboration  1
                       Reports                                             Implement:
1 5 1
 CY   ISemi annual M &E, andIdentification of
            -
                  Good Practices




              I                                                       I  Submit Reports    I
                                                                                           J




                                           43

                     Annex 5: FinancialSummary

MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupportingAccess to Justice Project
                             Years Ending


                                   IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD




                                  44

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements

         MEXICO:StateJudicial ModernizationProjectSupportingAccessto Justice

A. Procurement

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the ProcurementGuidelines); "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 (the Consultants'
Guidelines), and the provisions stipulatedinthe legal documents. A general description of items to be procured,
by expenditure category, is provided below and the estimatedvalue of this procurement i s summarizedin Table
A. For all contracts to be financed by the Loan, the procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are given in the
Procurement Plan in Attachment 1. The Procurement plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
reflect actual project implementationneeds andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: In the project, small works may include rehabilitation and construction of state
courthouses for which ICB is not expected. Mexico's federal law (Articles 27, Section 1(Licitacidn Pu'blica))
for national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures will be followed using the Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs) agreed by the Secretaria de la Funcidn Pu'blica(SFP) andthe Bank. Works estimatedto cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through price comparison of quotations of at least three
contractors, received in responseto a written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed description of the
small works, including basic specifications, required completion dates, and a basic contract form acceptableto
the Bank. When needed and if the requirements of paragraphs3.1, 3.6, and 3.7 of the ProcurementGuidelines
are met, direct contracting of small works may be undertakenwith prior agreementof the Bank. Attachment 1to
this Annex includes detailson specific thresholdsfor applicable works activities.

Procurement of Goods:         Goods procured under this project may include: equipment and software for
information technology activities, furniture and office supplies. Procurement of ICB will follow Bank
procedures specified in the Procurement Guidelines, using the Bank's SBD for goods, as agreed by the
Government with the Bank. For contracts with values under $500,000, Mexico's federal law (Article 26,
Section 1 (Licitacio'n Pu'blica)) procedures will be followed using the Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs)
agreed by the Secretaria de la Funcidn Pu'blica (SFP) and the Bank. For contracts valued less than $100,000
shopping proceduresmay be followed. When needed and if the requirements of paragraphs 3.1, 3.6, and 3.7 of
the ProcurementGuidelines are met, direct contracting of goods may be undertaken with prior agreement of the
Bank. Attachment 1includesdetails on specific thresholdsfor procurementof goods.

Procurement of non-consulting services: Printing services and other related services under goods or works
and training activities (logistics, organization, etc.) may be procured under a non-Consulting services bid
document (trial version) datedDecember 2002.

Selection of Consultants: Consultantsservices will be contracted in skill areas such as technical assistance and
capacity buildingas may be required under the modernization subprojects approved for the states. Description
of consulting services and methodologies, will be included in the Specific Procurement Plans (SPP's) submitted
by states at time of approval of their subprojects. Single Source Selection (SSS) procedures may be used for
procuring tasks that meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.10 of the Consultants' Guidelines. Contracts may
also be usedto hireuniversities, training institutions, andNGOs as required.

Operational Costs: These include any cost related to travel (national or international), per diems and/or other
logistic expenses incurred by states during project implementation and will be procured using the executing
agencies' administrative procedureswhich were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.


                                                       45

B. AssessmentofBANOBRAScapacitvto implementprocurement

An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurementactionsfor the Project was
carried out by Ms.Braslavsky, LPS Mexico, inFebruary 2004.

BANOBRAS

BANOBRAS (the Borrower) will conduct a State Risk Assessment & Mitigation of each candidate state, and sign
SubprojectAgreement with the participating state with terms andconditions satisfactoryto the Bank. All Subproject
Agreements will specify the conditions andprocedures to carry out procurement anddisbursement,based on the
results of the correspondingState RiskAssessment and Mitigation and the ProcurementPlan. BANOBRAS will be
responsiblefor: (i) reviewingall State ProcurementPlans (SPPs) and contract documentationpreparedfor prior
review for the Bank; (ii) for issuing no objection noticesto bid andRFPs documentation andproposalfor awards
submittedby the States, which fall below the Bank`s prior review threshold, (iii)    establishand maintain all
documentary and electronic registries; and(iv) ensure at all times that the fiduciary responsibility vestedby the Bank
pertainingto procurementis totally fulfilled. The assessmentof procurementcapacity reviewedthe organizational
structure of BANOBRAS vis-8-vis implementation of the project at BANOBRAScentral level and its future
interaction with the states and found it satisfactory.Nonetheless, BANOBRAS will strengthenits staffing structure
and participate in training to respondsatisfactorily to the demands of Project execution inthe States. Staff training
andcapacity buildingof BANOBRAS staff are includedinthe Project.

ParticipatingStates

The StateJudicial Modernization Supporting Access to JusticeProject will be executedineach of the participating
states by the Monitoring andEvaluation Committee of judicial experts (CCS) supportedby statejudicial branch
modernization support unit (PCU).

The SubprojectAgreements signedby BANOBRAS with the States will haveprovisions to ensurethat (i) World        the
Banks ProcurementandConsulting Guidelines, datedMay 2004, apply to all procurement activities financed by the
Bank loan; (ii) mandatoryuse of StandardBiddingDocuments, bothfor ICB andNCB, as agreedby the
Governmentandthe Bank; (iii) the selectionof consultants' services, StateCourts will be required to use World
                                  in
Bank's StandardRequest For Proposals(RFP) as agreedby the GOMwith the Bank; (iv) all Subproject Agreements
will allow for biddersof all countries to participate innational bidding; (v) Subproject Agreements will clearly
define the obligation to prepare and maintain a Specific ProcurementPlan (SPP), that would identify contractsto be
financed by the Bankboth for prior and post review procedures, with annualupdatesor earlier as may be necessary.

All procurement financed by the Bank through BANOBRAS credit program will be carried out at state level.
BANOBRAS (Central Office) will be in charge of collecting the information (of technical, procurement, financial,
disbursementnature) provided by the state PCUs, and send it to Bank as needed. BANOBRAS (Central Office) will
ensure that specific chapters on procurement are included in the Operational Manual or instruction booklets usedby
participating states.

Duringimplementation following actions were agreedwith BANOBRAS:

     (a)    BANOBRAS i s to hire a full-time Procurement Specialist in its Central Office in Mexico City, with
            professional qualifications satisfactory to the Bank as part of the Liaison Team. This specialist will be
            responsiblefor training participating state staff and supervision of all procurement activities carried out by
            the States.
     (b)    A ProjectLaunchSeminarwill be delivered to technical andprocurement staff soon after effectiveness.
     (c)    BANOBRAS will complete the a draft Operational Manual (OM) before effectiveness satisfactory to the
            Bank. The OM should include information on terms of reference andjob descriptions for consultantsin
            the PCU; guidelines to prepare for the Specific Procurement Plans, procedures for procurement
            methodologiesrequired for works, goods, and non-consulting services, and consulting services.


                                                            46

RiskAssessment

Most of the overall implementation issues/ risks anticipated regarding procurement have been identified with the
exception of those in the states. Assessment of states is plannedfor a later time as each State enters the BANOBRAS
credit program. The overall project risk for procurementi s high. This assessment may be revised after the Project
completes at least one year of implementation, and that at least two participating states are fully and successfully
involvedinimplementingtheir statejudicial modernization plans.

C. Procurement Planfor Project and Subproiects

Inview of provisions for BANOBRAS at a later date to sign SubprojectAgreements with the ParticipatingStates, an
overall Procurement Plan (PP) would be prepared later based on estimated individual procurement needs of
participating states. Preparationof such a Plan would be a condition for Loan Effectiveness. BANOBRAS has been
briefed on the basic elements, composition, methodologies,thresholds anddocumentation that would be requiredfor
the participating states to develop their own State Procurement Plans (SPP) of at least 18 months projection.
BANOBRAS will be directly responsible for staff training at state level and for ensuring that on-time planupdates
are submitted to the Bank for no objection before any modification to SPPs is made. However, in addition to
BANOBRAS' responsibility to keep procurement information at the Central Office, PCUs will maintain detailed
recordsof all their procurementactivities.

D. FrequencyofProcurement Supervision

Inaddition to prior review arrangements, annual post review will also be carried out. Their frequency may be
adjustedaccording to the outcome of supervision reportsduring the first year of implementation.

                            Annex 6 (A). Table A: Project Costs by Expenditure Category
                                            (InUS$millionequivalent)

                                   Expenditure Category                           Total costs

                     1. Works under Subprojects                                       12.60
                                                                                     (8.92)
                     2. Goods under Subprojects                                       12.65
                                                                                     (11.00)
                     3. Consultant Servicesunder Subprojects                          7.45
                         (including audits)                                          (6.01)
                     4. Training under Subprojects                                    4.80
                                                                                     (4.07)
                      Total                                                           37.50
                                                                                     (30.00)




                                                            47

                              Attachment 1to Annex 6 (A) Procurement
                                                             -
Procurement Plan:

I.General

1. Agreed Date of the Procurement Plan: Before Effectiveness.

2. Date of GeneralProcurement Notice: To be publishednot later an date
                                                                   ...      0- zffectiveness.

11.Goods andWorks andnonconsultingservices.

1. Prior ReviewThreshold: ProcurementDecisions subjectto PriorReview by Bankas statedinAppendix 1
to the Guidelines for Procurement:


                  Procurement
                     Method              Prior Review Threshold              Comments
        1           ICB              Morethan US$1O,OOO,OOO                 All contracts

        2           NCB              Lessthan US$10,000,000                 First contract of each
                                                                            Participating State
        3         Shopping           Lessthan US$500,000                0   None

        4       Direct contracting                  N/A                 0   All


                                      GOODS AND SERVICES
                                  (Not related to consultant services)
                  Procurement
                     Method             Prior Review Threshold              Comments
        1           ICB              Morethan US$500,000                 All contracts

        2           NCB              Less than US$500,000                Firstcontract of each
                                                                         Participating States
        3         Shopping           Less than US$lOO,OOO              0 None

                                    I
        4       Direct contracting                 NIA                 0 All


2. Pre-qualification. N/A

3. Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: BANOBRAS will oversee procurement activities of the
Participating States as agreed in the Subproject Agreements. These activities include prior review for contracts
not reviewed by the Bank (ex-ante), of specific procurement plans for participating states, and supervision of
mandatory use of agreed procurement and consultants' standard bid and contract documents, and day-to-day
support tojudiciaries on allprocurement related activities and reports.

4. Procurement Itemswith Methods and Time Schedule. N/A
Participating state procurementplanwill be submitted to the Bank for prior review andno objection at the time
of approval of risk and mitigationassessmentconductedby BANOBRAS.

111.Selection of Consultants

1. Prior Review Threshold: SelectionDecisionssubject to Prior Review by Bank as stated inAppendix 1to the
Guidelines Selection andEmployment of Consultants:

                     Selection Method              Prior Review Threshold           Comments
       1.     QCBS                               More thanUS$150,000             All contracts
       3.    FixedBudget                         More than US$200,000            All contracts
       4.     Least Cost                         More than US$lOO,OOO            All contracts
       5.     Consultants' Qualifications        More than US$200,000            All contracts
       6.     Single Source(Firms)               NIA                             All contracts
       7.     Individual consultants             More than US$lOO,OOO            All contracts
       8.     Single- Source (Individuals)       NIA                             All contracts

2. Short list comprised entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultantsfor services, estimatedto cost
less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, may include only national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph2.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines.

3. Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: Employment of public servants as consultants for the project.
not acceptable, unless the individual has resigned hisher position and official confirmation of this resignation is
delivered to the Bank prior to contract issuance.

4. Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods andTime Schedule: NIA
Participating state procurementplan will be submitted to the Bank for prior review and no objection at the time
of approval of risk and mitigationassessmentconductedby BANOBRAS.




                                                     49

                     Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements

                 MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationProject SupportingAccess to Justice

A. FinancialManagement

Country Issues. The Mexico Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed in October
2003. The CFAA focused on the national level public sector, which it considered to have generally sound FM
(financial management) systems and institutions. Country FM risk was rated as Moderate and all individual risk
factors were rated Low or Moderate. Nevertheless, the bearing of this CFAA on the Project FM system is
considered to be low because Project implementation will be handled by BANOBRAS and state judiciaries. The
Bank only began an overview of the financial management situation across all of Mexico's 32 states in
Februaryhlarch 2004. However, it can be said that the institutional issues related to this Project reflect not only
some known issues (e.g. variable quality of institutions) at the state level, but also some particular aspects of the
statejudiciaries, which have at least some degree of autonomy. The FMassessment therefore had to recognize the
improving, but varied, institutional capacity in many states, while also taking into account that thejudiciaries appear
to often haveweaker financial managementthan the state governments.

Overview. The fact that Project expenditures will occur within the state judiciaries through BANOBRAS credit
program, poses a challenge in terms of financial management design. The following sections discuss the approach
that will be taken in the various financial management areas, and the roles of the Bank and BANOBRAS in
supervising Project financial management.

FM Assessment. The FM assessment involved: (i) visits to the NCSC and two state judiciaries (Supremos
                                                        brief
Tribunales de Justicia) possiblecandidatesfor participating in the Project; and (ii)   meetings with BANOBRAS. It
involved ensuring that Project design allows for an appropriate level of transparency, facilitating oversight and
control while also supporting smoothimplementation. The conclusions of the FMassessmentare that: (i)           FMdesign
i s adequate and can be applied generally to any state judiciary interested in participating in the BANOBRAS credit
program; (ii)  the principal FMrisk lies in the fact that all Project funds will be managed within the statejudiciaries,
none of which have experience with Bank projects; (iii)      once the participation of a particular state i s confirmed, a
specific FM assessment of the judiciaries would be carried out. Visits conducted so far indicate the following: (i)
there i s some minimal level of FM capacity but this varies from state to state; and (ii) autonomy of the state
                                                                                              the
judiciaries may have a negative effect on their financial management. They in many cases do not have funding to
invest inmodem administrative systems and may not be linkedto the establishedsystems of the state government.

Flow of Funds and Information.           Bank loan funds will flow from the loan account, to a Special Account (SA)
managed by BANOBRAS and established in pesos at a commercial bank in Mexico. BANOBRAS' will transfer
funds from the SA to the participating states. As the Project will utilize a local currency loanproduct of the Bank-
the Automatic Currency Conversion (ACC) feature, BANOBRAS will request and receive disbursements inpesos,
to finance its loans to the states (ref. Disbursementsection of this Annex).

Project expenditures will be carried out at the state level through the implementation of Subprojects. For this
purpose BANOBRAS will enter into Subproject Agreements with participating states. After disbursements to the
Participating States, BANOBRAS will draw down the appropriate amount from the Special Account, and then
submit a replenishment application to the Bank. Counterpart funds will be represented by the funds that the
participating states have included in the budget for Project activities. Annual audit will be funded by BANOBRAS
which will consolidatethe audit reports of individual participating states.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. The participating states will maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with accounting practices compatible with International Accounting Standards and in
compliance with local requirements, their operations and financial condition, including records and separate
accounts for the Subprojects. Administrative procedures would be put in place to ensure that financial transactions
are made with considerationto safeguarding assets andensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring systems.
                                                            50

Accounting systems complementedwith information systems, must have the capacity to record assets, liabilities and
financial transactions of the Project, and produce financial statements and reports useful to Project management and
meeting the Bank's fiduciary requirements. BANOBRAS will provide information to the states entering the
program, regarding the recommended chart of accounts and related information requirements. The participating
states will be responsiblefor keeping files of all supportingdocumentationfor expendituresthat they make.

BANOBRAS will be required to keep central, consolidated accounting records for the Project. Entries into its
systems will be based on the information received from the participating states. Special Account activity, for
example, will be included in BANOBRAS' central accounts, and should be incorporated in Project financial
statements and audit.

Information Systems. Due to the dispersion of Project activity in the various participating states, there will be no
information system in one placethat tracks every transaction. Instead, the information systems employed for Project
financial management will be those usedwithin the participating statejudiciaries, andthose usedby BANOBRAS to
consolidate the Project information. The state-level systems will needto be evaluated as part of the FMassessment
for states seekingfunding from the BANOBRAS credit program.

Written Procedures. Project financial procedures will be documented in an Operational Manual (condition for
effectiveness), which will define the roles and responsibilities of BANOBRAS and the participating states. The OM
should include, among other financial procedures: (i)                   accounting policies and procedures, including basis of
accounting and chart of accounts; (ii)         the reporting requirementsfrom the states to BANOBRAS; (iii) of the       formats
consolidated Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the Project, to be prepared by BANOBRAS; (iv) internal
controls including BANOBRAS' criteria and procedures for managing the Special Account, and for processing
disbursements to the states; (v) records management; and (vi) audit arrangements. The planned arrangements for
some of these aspects are summarizedbelow.

Financial Reporting. BANOBRAS will prepare Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The preparationof these reports will rely heavily on the informationprovidedby the participating states.
BANOBRAS will therefore need to agree on the format of reporting from the states, so that it can prepare
consolidated reports for Project management and distribution to the various stakeholders, including the Project's
auditors, national controlentities and the Bank.

Audit. The financial statements of the Project, as consolidated and prepared by BANOBRAS, will be audited
annually by a private audit firm acceptableto the Bank. The audit process and audit report will follow the Bank`s
audit guidelines, reflecting the new audit policy as of July 2003. This audit will take into consideration any audits
carried out by government or private auditors of the participating states subprojects. The Project auditor will be
contractedby BANOBRAS and will be expectedto visit all participatingstates.

Financial Management Action Plan (see end of Annex).

B.Disbursements

Special Account. BANOBRAS will manage a Special Account in a commercial bank, in accordance with applicable
Bankprocedures. The SA will havean authorizedallocation of US$3 million(equivalent),' or 10%of the loan.'

Disbursement Mechanisms and Documentation.                        The Bank will disburse to BANOBRAS based on periodic
disbursement applications sent to the Bank. Project will employ the Automatic Currency Conversion feature, in
which disbursements are made in Mexican pesos and the debt to the Bank will be converted from dollars to pesos




  Since the Special Account will be in pesos, the authorized allocation may also be inpesos.
  The loan agreement may specify a lower initial allocation, applicable until loan disbursements reach a certain level.
                                                                       51

upon each disbursement, loan withdrawals will be subject to a minimum disbursement amount of US $1 milli~n.~
Mexican StandardDisbursementPercentageswill be applied which are indicated in the legal documents.

Disbursementswill follow traditional Bankprocedures, in which all advances to the Special Account will have to be
documented as eligible expenditures in order to receive SA replenishment. Supporting documentation, especially
SOEs, will be preparedby each participating state, and BANOBRAS will make a consolidated disbursementrequest
to the Bank, supportedby this state-by-stateinformation and including BANOBRAS-specific (e.g. SA information).
Regarding counterpart funding, the state contribution will be about 20% of Subproject costs, and on individual
transactions, will have to be at least enough to cover the amounts consideredineligible for financing by the Bank or
BANOBRAS, such as taxes and operating costs. Project supervision and audit will ensure that BANOBRAS has
transferredfunds to the participating states according to the SubprojectAgreements.

Retroactive Expenditures. The Project will be eligible to submit for retroactive reimbursement up to US$ 3 million,
documentation on expenditurestotaling up to 10% of the Loan amount, for eligible expenditures incurred after May
3,2004 but beforethe signingof the LoanAgreement.

Use of Statements of Expenditure. Loan withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for all expenditures
not requiring the Bank's prior review.




          include project components and state-by-state activity, a project
          cost table, internal controls, segregation of duties, fixed assets and




          Financial Management System
          Define the FM system to be used for the project within                 BANOBRAS          Prior to effectiveness, to
          BANOBRAS.                                                                                done within the Operational
                                                                                                   Manual
          -Define the FM system to be usedby the participating statejudiciary    States,           State by state, as they
             including information systems. Specify if Project funds will be     BANOBRAS          participate inBANOBRAS
          usedto improve these systems.                                                            credit program. FM
                                                                                                   arrangementsmust be in
                                                                                                   place before states receive




   Minimum disbursement levels are set to maximize the efficiency of the hedging transactions that the Bank must execute in the financial
 markets,for the currency conversions to take place.
                                                                       52

                                        Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule

               MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupportingAccess to Justice Project

                    Project Schedule                              Planned                              Actual
 Time taken to preparethe project(months)                             12                                 20
 First Bank mission(identification)                                12/03/02                            10118/02
 Appraisal missiondeparture                                        12/02/03                            04/27/04
 Negotiations                                                      01/12/04                            05112/04
 PlannedDateof Effectiveness                                       09/30/04

Prepared by including:

Presidencia de la Republica. Eduardo Sojo Garza Aldape, Coordinador de Asesoresde Politicas Pdblicas

Secretaria de Hacienda y CrCdito Pdblico (SHCP): Francisco Gil, Secretario; Alonso Garcia, Subsecretario de Hacienda y
CrCdito Pdblico; AndrCs Conesa Labastita, Titular de la Unidad de CrCdito Pdblico; Ricardo SBnchez Baker, Director General
Adjunto de Deuda Pdblica; Agustin Carstens, Subsecretario SHCP (Former); Ricardo Ochoa, Director General de Asuntos
Internacionales de Hacienda; Claudia Grayeb, Directora de Organismos Financieros Internacionales; Silvia Eugenia Rocha
Torres, Directora General Adjunta de Procedimientos Legales de CrCdito; Daniel Muiioz, Director Juridico de Financiamiento;
Mercedes Ivette Ramos, Subdirectora Juridica de CrCdito; Carlos Rad1 Delgado, Subdirector de Proyectos Financieros,
Juridicos, Agropecuarios de Infraestructura y Descentralizaci6n; Alejandro Camacho, Jefe del Departamento de Proyectos de
Descentralizaci6n; Cecilia Cejudo. SHCP

BANOBRAS: Luis Pazos de la Torre, Director General; Ver6nica Baranda, Subdirectora de Planeaci6n y Programaci6n;
Armando Acevedo, Subdirector de Promocibn; Manuel Dolores, Subdirector de Asistencia TCcnica; Rad1Escalante, Gerente de
Productos; Emilio Sotelo, Subgerentede Productos con Fondeo Externo; Liliana Corzo, GerenteJuridico de Proyectos Pfiblicos;
Maria GuadalupePtrez, Experto TCcnico de la Gerencia de Productos; Eduardo ChBvez, Gerente de Administracidn de Riesgos
Crediticios; Alejandro Escutia, SubgerentePolitica Financiera; Marcela Barreiro, Experto Tecnica Gerencia Proyecto; Salom6n
Herrejon, Subgerentede Asesoria TCcnica; Francisco Amador Ram'rez, Gerente de EvaluaciBn de Proyectos 2; Benjamin Diaz,
Experto TCcnico de la Gerencia de Evaluaci6n de Proyectos; Guillermo Salas; Alejandro Peralta, Alejandra Vega, Gerard0
Pigeon, Virginia AlcBntara, Alejandro Dominguez, Abigail Rol6n, Leopoldo Ortiz Martinez, Maria Luisa Gabriela Ramirez
Oliva, Francisco Javier Sanchez de Lira, Rafael Sanchez Jaime.

Comisidn Nacional de Tribunales Superiores de Justicia (National Commission of State Courts, NCSC): Mag. Lic. Abel
Villicaiia Estrada, MBxico, Presidente; Mag. Lic. Pablo Zapata Subyaga, Chihuahua, Vicepresidente; Mag. Lic. Lizbeth Loy
Song Encalada, Quintana Roo, Vicepresidente; Mag. Lic. Angel Prieto MCndez, YucatBn, Vicepresidente; Mag. Lic. Hector M.
Ramirez SBnchez, Guanajuato, Vicepresidente; Mag. Lic. Javier German Rodriguez J., Nayarit, Secretario General; Mag. Lic.
JosC Angel Paredes Echavarria, Campeche, Vocal; Mag. Lic. M a Elisa Renteria Moreno, QuerCtaro, Vocal; Mag. Lic. JosC
Palomino Castrejbn, Baja California, Vocal; Mag. Lic. Mauro Hernandez Pacheco, Michoacfin, Vocal; Mag. Lic. Raul Bolaiios
Cacho Guzmfin, Oaxaca, Coordinador de Asuntos Internacionales; Mag. Lic. Guillermo Pacheco Pulido, Puebla, Representante
ante El Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Pfiblica; Mag. Lic. Milton Escobar Castillejos, Chiapas, Consejero Editorial; Mag. Lic.
JosC Castillo Ambriz, MCxico, SecretarioTCcnico.

Consejeria Juridica del Ejecutivo Federal: Lic. Maria Teresa Herrera Tello, Consejeria Juridica del Ejecutivo Federal, and
Lic. Laura FuentesGonzBlez, DirectoraGeneral de Mejora Administrativa e Innovacidn Institucional.

World Bank: Isabel Guerrero, Country Director; Ernest0 May, Sector Director; Ronald Myers, Sector Manager; Joaquin
Cottani, Lead Economist; Steven Webb, Lead Economist; David Gold, Sr. Economist; Krishna Challa, Sector Leader; Olivier
Lafourcade (Former Country Director); Marcel0 Giugale. Lead Economist and Sector Leader (currently Country Director,
LCC6C); Ferenc Molnar, Chief Counsel; Vicente Fretis-Cibils (Lead Economist); Lea Braslavsky, Lead Procurement Specialist;
Fernando Rojas, Lead Public Sector Management Specialist; Miguel L6pez-Bakovic, Sr. Operations Off.; Teresa Genta-Fons,
Sr. Counsel; Roberto Panzardi Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist; Robert Buergenthal, Sr. Counsel; Connie Luff Sr.
Country Officer; Keta Ruiz Country Officer; Daniel Boyce, Sr. Financial Management Specialist; Regis Thomas Cunningham,
Sr. Finance Officer; Jozef Draaisma, Sr. Economist; Issam Abousleiman, Sr. Financial Officer; Richard Messick Sr. Public
Sector Management Specialist; Linn Hammergren Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist; Lisa Bhansali Sr. Public Sector
                                                             53

Management Specialist; Hugo Concha; Maria Novoa; JosC Antonio Caballero; Faustino Barrbn; (Sr. Specialists, Cons.); Nina
Ohman; Ximena Gutiirrez; Alexandra Habershon, Guadalupe Toscano, Sang Hyuck-Cho, Matilde Bordon, Johnny Guzman,
(operation and information officers and analysts, Cons.); Rosa Estrada, Procurement Analyst; Shelton Davis, Sector Manager;
Jorge Franco, Social Development and Civil Society Spec.; Christopher Neal, Sr. Communications Officer; Mario Bravo, Sr.
Communications Officer; David Gray, Lead Knowledge Mgmt. Officer;            Mark Hagerstrom, Country Sector Leader; Juan
Quintero, Lead Env. Specialist; Alonso Zarzar, Sr. Social Scientist; Glaura Lage, Language Program Assistant; Ricardo
Hernandez Murillo, Env. Specialist; John Kellenberg, Sector Leader; Gladys Lopez-Acevedo, Economist; Victor Manuel
Ordoiiez Conde, Financial Mgmt. Specialist; Mauricio Cuellar, Transport Specialist; Omar Hayat, Financial Analyst; Shirley
Matzen, Cofinancing Officer; Maria Gonzalez de Asis, Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist; Katherine Bain, Team Leader; Gisu
Mohadjer, Operations Adviser; Ipek Alkan, Operations Officer; Cesar Yammal, Information Officer; Herman Nissenbaum;
Anthony Waniss; Richard Lau; Agustin Mercado; Mary Cornish; Benjamin Santamaria; Rosa Elba Perez; Laura Fuesers; Layla
Castellanos; Nina von Hardenberg; Ruxandra Burdescu, Eriko Yamashita (consultants); Silvia Porche, Procurement Assist,
Gabriela Aguilar Communication Officer; Angelica Calderon Information Officer; Lilit Petrosyan, Aracely Barahona
(Consultants); Alejandra Gonzalez; Karina Kashiwamoto; Guillermo Ptrez, Ricardo Hernandez-Rosas, Adrian Gastelum,
Gerardo Garcia; Antonio Gonzalez, Fabiola Longgi, Sharon Spriggs; Mayela Rojas, Carmen Villamil, Georgina Wiese,
Elizabeth Greene, Odracir Barquera, Clara Rodriguez, Ada Garcia (LCSPS, LEGLA and Resident Office Team Staff); and
Waleed Malik, Lead Public Sector Management Specialist and Task Team Leader.

IFC:
Francisco A. Tourreilles, Director, CINDR; Ravinder Bugga, Senior Manager, CININ; Carlos Botelho Da Silva, Ossa Gunilla
Fredricsson,CITIT; Ricardo Barreda Zapien, Subdirector Juridic0 Coorporative, Inversionistas en Transportes Mexicanos, S.A.
de C.V. (IFC client).

BankPeer Reviewers:
Richard E. Messick, Sr. Public Sector Spec. PRMPS; Linn Hammergren, Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spec., LCSPS; David F.
Varela, Country Manager, LCCVE; Maria Dakolias, Lead Counsel, LEGLR; Shelton Davis, Sector Manager ESSD; Maria
ElenaCastro, Sr. Social and Gender Specialist LCR.

Donors including:
European Commission(Mexico Office): Arturo Rodriguez, Good Governanceand Human Rights Project
Germany (Konrad Adenauer Foundation): ReinhardJunghanns, Coordinator
USAID: John A. Beed. Deputy Director, Jene C. Thomas. Democracy & Governance Team Leader, and Rafaela Herrera
Principal Specialist, Macarena Tamayo Calabrese, Director, American Bar Association Mediation Project, and also members of
the US NationalCenter for State Courts Williamsburg Virginia Mexico Office Team.
UNDP:PerlaPineda, OficialdeProgramasMexicoCity
Spain: Juan Pablo GonzAlez Vocal Presidente de la Comisibn de Relaciones Internacionales; Javier Parra Garcia, Counsel,
Director, Departamentode RalacionesInternacionales; Miguel Pasqualdel RiquelmeHerrero, Letrado. Jefe de Seccibn, Servicio
de RelacionesInternacionales, consejo General del PoderJudicial de Espaiia.

Participants of Stakeholder Consultation Workshopsincluded
 Aeuascalientes:
Justices and Judges: Cleto Humberto Reyes Neri, Magistrado Presidente; Maria Teresa Martinez Mercado; Magistrada; JosC de
 Jesds Gonztilez Diaz, Magistrado; JosC de Jes6s Delgado Delgado, Magistrado; Maria de 10s Angeles Viguerias GuzmBn,
 Magistrada; Jesds Ramirez Esparza, Magistrado; Juan Arturo Muiiiz Candelas, Magistrado; Edna Edith Llado Lkaga, Juez
 Penal; Fernando GonzAlez de Luna, Juez Penal; Laura Silvia SAnchez Garcia, Jueza Penal; Jesds Figueroa Ortega, Juez Penal;
 Alfred0 Quirbz Garcia, Juez Penal; Ruben Parga Rojas, Juez Penal; Hugo Bernard0 MArquez Elias, Juez Civil; Antonio Piiia
 Martinez, Juez Civil; Juana Patricia Escalante JimCnez, Jueza Civil; Esther Ruiz Rodriguez, Jueza Civil; Juan Gerardo Ortega
 Ayala, Juez Civil; Francisco Javier Perales Durfin, Juez Civil; Lino Roman Quirbz, Juez Civil; Juan Manuel Ponce SBnchez,
 Juez Familiar; Leticia VClez HernAndez, Jueza Familiar; Gabriela Espinosa Castorena, Jueza Familiar; JosB de Jeslis Contreras
 Romo, Juez Mixto.
 Judicial Administrators and OfJicials: Enrique Franco Muiibz, Director de Notificadores; Fernando Raygoza Morales, Director
 de Actuaria; Enrique de la Torre Ferntindez, Oficial Mayor; AngClica de Santos Velasco, Contralora; Cristina Moreno Ramirez,
 ContadoraGeneral; Guillermo ReyesMedina, Director de C6mputo Civil; Gerardo Aguilar ValdCz, Director de Cbmputo Penal;
 Elizabeth Buchanan M. del Campo, Directora del Archivo Judicial; Estela Oliver Villalpando, Jefa del Departamento de
 Sicologia; Guadalupe Marquez Algara, Directora del Instituto de Capacitacibn; Claudio A. Granados M., Funcionario del
 Instituto de Capacitacibn; Blanca Solis Lbpez, Secretaria de Acuerdos; Martha Range1 Rendbn, Secretaria de Acuerdos;
 Verbnica de Jeslis de LunaEsparza, Secretariade Acuerdos; Gabriel de Anda Martinez, Director de Planeacibn.

                                                               54

Baia California:
Justices and Judges: JosC Palomino Castrejbn, Magistrado Presidentedel TSJBC; Juvenal Hernandez Acevedo, Magistrado 3ra.
Sala Penal; Maria Guadalupe Haro Haro, Juez Ira. Instancia Civil; Jorge Duarte Magaiia, Juez Ira. Instancia Civil; Salvador
Montoya G6mez, Juez Ira. Instancia Penal; Ana Maria Elias Gonzalez, Juez Ira. Instancia Penal; Carlos Alberto FerrC Espinoza,
Juez Ira. Instancia Civil; Carmen Alicia L6pez Galindo, Juez Ira. Instancia Familiar; Dalila D. Villegas PCrez, Juez Ira.
Instancia Familiar; Fernando Serrano JimCnez, Juez Ira. Instancia Penal; Francisco Avalos Hernandez, Juez Mixto de Paz;
Gloria Elena Ptacnik Preciado, Juez Ira. Instancia Familiar; Ignacio Flores Aguiano, Juez Ira. Instancia Civil; Jaime Galindo
Hernandez, Juez Ira. Instancia Penal; JosC Martin Aguilar Ojeda, Juez Ira. Instancia Familiar; Salvador Juan Ortiz Morales,
Juez Ira. Instancia Mixto; Sandra Sofia Rubio Diaz, Juez Ira. Instancia Civil; Mario Fernando Ruiz Sindez, Juez Ira. Instancia
Civil; Silvia L6pez Cortez, Juez Ira. Instancia Civil; Norma A. Arreola Loza, Investigador, Instituto de la Judicatura; Miguel
Angel PCrez Aguilera, Investigador, Instituto de la Judicatura; Jorge Ricardo Alcintar Enriquez, Investigador, Instituto de la
Judicatura.
Judicial Administrators and OSficials: Luis Ram6n Martin del Campo Figueroa, Consejero, Consejo de la Judicatura; Jes6s
Robles Valenzuela, Director de la Unidad Administrativa; Ignacio Salazar Badillo, Jefe del Departamento de Informitica; JosC
Luis XimCnez Ontiveros, Jefe del Departamento de N6minas; Maria Esther L6pez Rodarte, Jefe del Departamento de
Contabilidad; Rad1 Vizcarra Alonso, Jefe del Departamento Recursos Humanos; Martha P. Calder6n Mendieta, Coordinadora
del Departamento de Recursos Humanos; Sergio Hernandez G6mez, Jefe del Departamento. de Servicios Generales; Nohemi
Edith Orozco Basurto, Coord. de Cap. Administrativa, Instituto de la Judicatura; Salomdn CortCs Ballesteros, Coordinador de
Soporte TCcnico; Elvira Vargas GutiCrrez, Analista de Sistemas; Ruth Judith Urias, Encargada de Servicios; Maria de 10s
Angeles Espinoza JimCnez, Secretario de Acuerdos; Maria del Consuelo Chavez Arreola, Secretario de Acuerdos; Evangelina
Figueroa Zazueta, Secretario de Acuerdos; Oscar Medina Garcia, Secretario Actuario; Salvador Avelar Armendhiz, Secretario
de Acuerdos; Miguel Angel Ley Alvarez, Secretariode Estudio y Cuenta.
Invited: Carlos Reynoso Nuiio, Subsecretario General de Gobierno del Estado de Baja California; Maria Guadalupe Lara
GutiCrrez, Directora de Desarrollo Organizacional del Tribunal Superior de Justicia del Estado de Hidalgo.

Chihuahua:
Justices and Judges: Lic. Pablo Zapata Zubiaga, Magistrado Presidente del TSJCH; Lic. Jaime Ju6rez Villarreal, Magistrado,
Quinta Sala Civil; Lic. Samuel Rend L6pez Parra, Magistrado, Tercera Sala Civil; Lic. Antonio Ptrez Contreras, Magistrado,
Quinta Sala Penal; Lic. Miguel Medina Perea, Magistrado, SCptima Sala Penal; Lic. Salvador Amaro Castillo, Juez SCptimo
Civil, Distrito Morelos; Lic. Javier Ramirez Benitez, Juez Tercero Civil, Distrito Morelos; Lic. Octavio Rodriguez Gaytan, Juez
Segundo Penal, Distrito Morelos; Lic. Juan Rodriguez Zubiate, Juez Sexto Penal, Distrito Morelos; Lic. Ma. Socorro Aguirre
Dueiies, Juez Primero Familiar, Distrito Morelos; Lic. Leticia Barragan Jaramillo, Juez Quinto Civil, Distrito Bravos; Lic. Jesds
A, Rocha Vega, Juez Segundo Civil, Distrito Bravos; Lic. JosC A. Vizquez Quintero, Juez Tercero Penal, Distrito Bravos; Lic.
Carmen A. Verdugo Bayona, Juez Sexto Penal, Distrito Bravos; Lic. JosC Luis Almada Ortiz, Juez Tercero Familiar, Distrito
Bravos; Lic. Adolfo Maldonado Delgado, Juez Primero Civil, Distrito Benito Ju6rez; Lic. HCctor Rodriguez Manriquez, Juez
Primero Penal, Distrito Benito Ju6rez; Lic. Cristina Gpe. Sandoval Holguin, Juez Segundo Civil, Distrito Abraham Gonzilez;
Lic. GuadalupeHernandezLozano, Juez Segundo Penal, Distrito Abraham Gonzilez; Lic. Amparo PerezBarraza, Juez Segundo
Penal, Distrito Camargo; Lic. Rafael Baudit Jurado, Juez Primero Penal, Distrito Galeana; Lic. Juan JosC Fernandez Carrejo,
Juez Primera Instancia Civil, Distrito JimCnez.
Judicial Administrators and OSficials: Lic. Marco E. Anchondo Paredes, Secretario General del Tribunal; Lic. Marco Aurelio
Mendoza G6mez, Contralor Generaldel Tribunal.Lic. Javier PCrezRivera, Oficial Mayor; C.P. Emilio Rasc6nNdiiez, Contralor
Financiero; Lic. Rafael Lozoya Varela, Coordinador CEFORACT (Centro de Formaci6n y Actualizaci6n Judicial); Lic. Rogelio
Villalobos Olvera, Coordinador CEFORACT; Lic. CCsar Zeferino Rojo Flores, Jefe del Departamento de Informitica; Lic.
Ignacio Bustillos Saenz, Jefe Oficina Central de Oficiales Notificadores y Ministros Ejecutores; Lic. Jaime CCsar Martinez
Campos, Jefe del Departamento de Defensoria de Oficio; Lic. Blanca Alicia Corpus ValdCz, Coordinadora de Defensores de
Oficio de Juzgados Penales;

Colima:
Justices and Judges: Lic. Felipe Chivez Carrillo, Magistrado Presidente del TSJC; Lic. Eugenio Olmos Mendoza, Magistrado;
Lic. Rosio Valdovinos Anguiano, Magistrada; Lic. Ma. Luisa Ruiz Corona, Magistrada; Lic. Jorge Magaiia Tejeda, Magistrado;
Lic. Carlos Alberto Macias Becerril, Magistrado; Lic. Rocio L6pez Llerenas Zamora, Magistrada; Lic. Rafael Garcia Rindn,
Magistrado; Lic. Eliseo Arroyo Alcali, Magistrado; Lic. Ram6n Cervantes Amezcua, Magistrado; Lic. JosC Alberto Peregrina
 Sinchez, Magistrado; Lic. FidelVega Gudiiio, Magistrado; Lic. Aniceto Cabrera Flores, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Oscar
Crescencio Vergara PCrez, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Adan Muiiiz Mora, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Arturo Martin
Leal Martinez, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. JosC Antonio Cabrera Contreras, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Rocio Nungaray


                                                               55

Camacho, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Ernestina Arroyo Brizuela, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Delia Ludivina Olmos
Diaz, Juez de Primera Instancia; Lic. Guillermo CarmonaN., Juez de Paz.
Judicial Administrators and OfJicials: Lic. Francisco Torres Garcia, Proyectista Juridico; Lic. Dhylva Leticia Castaiieda
Campos, Jefa de la Seccidn de Amparos; Lic. Adriana Elizabeth Mancilla Margalli, Directora del Centro de Estudios Judiciales;
Lic. Aid6 SamanthaGarcia Camarena, Secretariade Acuerdos; Lic. M6nica Gabriela Alvarado Cabral, SecretariaActuaria; C.P.
Alberto Cerna Medrano, Jefe de Departamento Contable; C.P. Alma Lorena Herrera Ndiiez, Coordinadora Administrativa.
Invited: Cecilia Cejudo, SHCP

Users Consultations: Lic. Mario Hernfindez Briceiio, Presidente del Colegio de Abogados de Tecomfin; Lic. Esperanza
HernandezBriceiio, Integrantes delColegio de Abogados de Tecomfin; Lic. Efrain Naranjo Cortes, Presidentede la Comisidn de
Derechos Humanos no Gubernamental; Lic. Francisco Javier Preciado Rincbn, Federacidn de Egresados de la Universidad de
Colima; Lic. Aranzazu Velasco Lafarga, Centro de Apoyo a la Mujer; Lic. Carlos Garibay Panaigua, Director de la Facultad de
Derecho; Lic. Carlos de la Madrid Virgen, Director del Instituto de Investigaciones Juridicas; Lic. Zenen Campos Beas,
Presidente de la Federaci6n del Transporte Urbano y Suburbano; Sra. Mercedes Iglesias, Miembro de la FederacMn del
Transporte Urbano y Suburbano; Sr. Francis Levy Lavalle, Grupo Radio Levy; Lic. Manuel Brust Carmona, Presidente del
Colegio de Notarios; Lic. Ramdn PCrez Diaz, Notario; Lic. Arturo Noriega Campero, Notario; Lic. Marcelino Bravo JimCnez
Notario; Srta. Hilda Lizette Moreno Ceballos, Presidenta de la Sociedad de Alumnos de la Facultad de Derecho; Sr. Gonzalo
Verduzco, Presidente de la Asociaci6n de Agricultores y Ganaderos; CapitBn Gilbert0 Alatorre, Marino retirado; Luis Jorge
Alvarez Preciado, Representante de Agencia de Viajes; Lic. Jaime Ernest0 Vfizquez Montes, Presidente de la CMIC; Sra.
Lizzete del Angel, Comunicaci6n Social de la CMIC; Dr.Carlos JimCnez Herrera, Presidentedel Colegio de MCdicos delEstado
de Colima; Sr. Raimundo CabreraCruz, Gerente Generalde Asociaciones Hoteles y Moteles de Manzanillo y estado de Colima;
Sr. Hugo Valdovinos, Integrante de la CANACO; Ing. Pedro Peralta Rivas; Presidente de la Coparmex; Lic. RamBn Castaiieta
Moran, Integrante de la CANCO; Lic. Doming0 Zdfiiga, Director de Desarrollo Institucionaldel Gobierno del Estado.

Estadode MCxico:
Justices and Judges: Lic. Abel Villicaiia Estrada, Magistrado Presidente del TSJEM; Mag. Lic. Alfred0 Albarrfin Martinez,
Magistrado Primera Sala Familiar; Mag. Lic. ArmandoJ. Hernhdez SuArez, Magistrado Primera Sala Civil; Mag. Lic. JosC de
Jesds Alvarez Diaz, Magistrado Segunda Sala Civil; Mag. Lic. JosC Luis VBzquez Ramirez, Magistrado Primera Sala Familiar;
Mag. Lic. Joaquin Mendoza Esquivel, Magistrado Primera Sala Familiar; Lic. Isaias Mejia Avila, Juez Octavo Civil de Toluca;
Lic. Ana Maria Susana Rosas Espinoza, Jueza Penal de Cuantia Menor Juzgado Penal; M.en A.J. Arturo Armeaga Iturbe, Juez
Cuantia Mayor Juzgado Segundo Civil; Lic. Carlos Bastida Fonseca, Juez Civil de Cuantia Menor Juzgado Civil; Lic. David
Velfizquez Vargas, Juez Civil de Primera Instancia Juzgado de Cuantia Menor; Lic. HCctor Felipe SBnchez Vfizquez, Juez de
Cuantia Menor Juzgado Penal; Lic. JosC Antonio Suirez Delgadillo, Juez Civil de Cuantia Menor Juzgado Civil; Lic. Juan
Carlos Colin Rico, Juez Civil de Primera Instancia Juzgado Civil; M.en D. Perla Palacios Navarro, Jueza Cuantia Mayor
Juzgado Tercer0 Civil; M.en D. SalvadorFelipe Ram'rez Martinez, Juez Penalde Primera instancia.
Judicial Administrators and Oflcials: Mag. Lic. JosB C. Castillo Ambriz, Coordinador Administrativo del Consejo de la
Judicatura; Lic. Gonzalo Romero Arizmendi, Director de Administracibn; M. en D Marco Antonio Morales G6mez Director
General Escuela de Poder Judicial de Estado de MCxico M. en D. Antonio G6mez Reynoso, Coordinador AcadCmico de la
Escuela Judicial; Lic. Hugo Andrade GutiCrrez, Jefe del Departamento de Computaci6n e Informkica; Lic. Maria Alejandra
Alarcdn Fabila, Jefa del Departamento de Contabilidad; C.P. Martha Arista Vfisquez, Jefa del Departamento de Control
presupuestal;Lic. en D. PascualJosC G6mez Gonzfilez, Director del Departamento de Contraloria; C.P. Angel DurBnPCrez, Jefe
del Departmento de Auditoria Interna; Ing. Juan Cuenca Diaz Jefe del Departamento de Peritos; L.T. Victor Manuel Orozco
Olimbn, Jefe del Departmento de Recursos Humanos; Lic. Ariel PedrazaMuiioz, Coordinador Administrativo de laEscuela del
Poder Judicial; Lic. Susana Lara Sansores, Coordinadora de ExtensiBn de la Escuela del Poder Judicial; Ing. Juan Luis Serrano
Ortega, Escueladel PoderJudicial.
Invited: Hacienda: Alejandro Camacho, Rad1Delgado; BANOBRAS: Francisco Amador; Benjamin Diaz.

Guanaiuato:
Justices and Judges: Hector Manuel Ramirez Sfinchez, Magistrado Presidente; Plinio Manuel E. Martinez Tafolla, Magistrado;
Rebeca Gonzfilez Solis, Magistrado; Pablo Gonzfilez Sierra, Juez Penal de Partido; Hugo Javier Ruiz Valadez, Juez Civil de
Partido; Lilia Valdivia Moncayo, JuezaMenor; EnriqueBarbosaMedina, Juez Menor.
Judicial Administrators and OfSicials: Nora Maritza Hernandez Castro, Consejera Magistrado; Ram6n Izaguirre Ojeda,
Consejero Magistrado; Jose Antonio Ramirez Rancel, Consejero Magistrado; Javier Eduardo Molina Gallegos, Consejero
Magistrado; Gabino Carbajo Zuiiiga, Director Instituto de Capacitacibn de Formaci6n de 10s Servidores Pdblicos; Ramdn
Gerard0Zag0 Merlo, Secretario General del Supremo Tribunal; Luis Alberto ValdCz L6pez, Secretario Particular del Secretario
General; Francisco Javier Zamora Rocha, Secretario General del Consejo; Luz Elena Nuiio Aviiia, Secretaria TCcnica del
Consejo; Carmen Alcalde Maycotte, Directora General de Administraci6n; RenC Figueroa Hernindez, Director de Presupuestoy

                                                             56

Contabilidad; NicolBs Amaro, Coordinador de Mantenimiento y Control Patrimonial; Alejandro Saucedo Serrano, Contralor;
Patricia Monserrat Cruces Gonzfilez, Jefe del Departamento de Inspeccibn y Auditoria; Graciela Anguiano Zavala, Encargada
del Fondo Auxiliar; Luz AngClica Vargas Garcia, Jefe de Departamento; JosC Vargas Porras, Director de InformBtica; Roberto
Acosta Espinoza, Jefe de Departamento de Informitica; Beatriz Ortega Sandoval, Coordinadora de la Biblioteca y Archivo;
Sandra Lorena Guevara Lbpez, Oficial judicial (adscrita a biblioteca); Araceli RBbago Oliveros, Jefe de ComunicaciBn Social;
Carolina del Pozo FernBndez, Oficialjudicial (comunicacibn social).
BANOBRAS: Mr.Rad1Escalanteand Ms. Virginia Alcantara; Mr.KennethMadrid (Honduras) [invited]

Navarit:
Justices and Judges: Mag. Lic. Javier German Rodriguez JimBnez, Magistrado Presidente del TSJN; Mag. Lic. Jose Ram6n
Gonzilez Pineda, Magistrado Presidente del TSJN (during project preparation); Mag. Lic. Jesus Ram'rez Garcia, Magistrado
Sala Penal; Mag. Lic. Jorge Armando Gbmez Arias, Magistrado Sala Civil; Mag. Lic. Federico Fletes Arjona, Magistrado
Presidente Sala Civil; Mag. Lic. HCctor Manuel Altamirano Dueiias, Magistrado Sala Civil; Mag. Lic. Elizabeth Gonzfilez
Momita, Magistrada Sala Penal; Lic. Ana Maria Rosales VBzquez, Jueza Mixto Primera Instancia; Lic. Esperanza Mariscal
Verdugo, Juez Penal Segundo Penal; Lic. Irma Leticia Bermddez Cruz, Jueza Familiar Segundo Familiar; Lic Isidro Estrada
GutiCrrez, Juez Penal Primero Penal; Lic. JosC Luis Montes Juez Familiar Primero Familiar; Lic. Maria de Los Angeles Jukez
Flores, Jueza Civil Primero Civil; Lic. MariaLourdes Barrbn Elias, Jueza Civil Segundo Civil; Lic. Maria Luisa De Ledn Mejia,
JuezaMercantil Primero Mercantil; Lic. Pablo Alonso Ortiz, Juez PenalTercer0 Penal; Lic. Norma UraniaCkdenas Hernandez,
Jueza Mercantil Segundo Mercantil; Lic. Dora Lucia Santillan JimCnez, Instituto de Capacitacibn y Especializacibn Judicial;
Lic. Ana Bertha GuzmBn Franco, Instituto de Capacitacibn y Especializacibn Judicial; Lic. Elpidio CortCs Conchas, Secretario
General de Acuerdos; Lic. Juan Carlos Delgadillo Cruz, Secretario General Sala Penal.
Judicial Administrators and OfJicials: C.P. Oscar Dionisio PCrez DBvila, Secretario de Administracibn Consejo de la Judicatura;
Lit. Julio CCsar Romero Ramos, Secretario Carrera Judicial; Lic. Cuauhtemoc Valencia Huerta Secretario Visitaduria; Lic.
Francisco Flores Soria, Director de Comunicacibn Social; C.P. Gloria AngClica Ramirez JimCnez , Contraloria Interna; Lic.
HCctor Manuel Benitez DBvila, Secretario Instituto de Capacitacih y Especializacibn Judicial; Lic. Pedro Antonio Enriquez
Soto, Secretario Particular; C.P. SandraAlicia Vargas Sfinchez, Jefa de Departamento Recursos Financieros; Lic. Luis Alberto
SanjuBn Dueiias, Jefe de Departamento Bienes y Servicios; C.P. Ctsar Santos Carrillo Arjona, C.P. Maria Teresa Medina
Pacheco; Jefa de Departamento Abastecimiento; Encargado de Planeaci6n; T.P.1 Oscar Omar Altamirano Padilla Jefe de
Departamento InformBtica; Ing. CCsar Quintana Basto, Informfitica; Ing. Daniel GonzBlez Renteria, InformBtica; Ing. Edgar
Arturo Estrada Macias, Bienes y Servicios Generales; Lic. Javier AlcBntar Rodriguez; Unidad de Informacibn; Lic. Rocio
Victoria Alejandra Flores VelBsquez, SecretariaPrivada. Lic. Genoveva Verdias Santana, Secretariade Acuerdos Consejo de la
Judicatura; Lic. CCsar Octavio Garcia Torres, Secretario de Acuerdos; Lic. Maria Guadalupe Hernandez Rambn, Secretaria de
Acuerdos; Lic. Mario Cervera Lbpez, Secretario de Acuerdos.

Oaxaca:
Justices and Judges: Mag. Lic. Ra61 Bolanos Cacho Guzman; Magistrado Presidente del TSJO; Lic. Juan de Jesds Vasquez
Urdiales, Magistrado; Lic. Ezequiel Rad1 Gbmez Martinez, Magistrado; Lic. Arturo Ledn De La Vega, Magistrado; Mag. Lic.
Alfred0 LagunasRivera, Magistrado; Lic. Eduardo Pinacho Sfinchez,Magistrado; Lic. Francisco Martinez SBnchez, Magistrado;
Lic. Octavio Zarate Mijangos, Magistrado; Lic. Ernest0 Miranda Barriguete, Magistrado; Lic. Rend Hernandez Reyes, Juez
Penal; Lic. Victoriano Barroso Rojas, Juez Penal; Lic. Victor Alberto Quiroz Arellanes, Juez Civil.
Judicial Administrators and OfJicials: C.P. Gloria Rojas GutiCrrez, Directora de Planeacibn; C.P. Renato F. Diaz Aragbn,
Director de Administracibn; C.P. Armando Sosa Garcia, Director de Finanzas; C.P. Roman Garcia Pujol, Director de
Contraloria Interna; Lic. Armando Javier Cervantes Bravo, Director del Archivo Y Boletin Judicial; Ing. JosC Luis Abad
GuzmBn, Director del Fondo Para La Administracidn de Justicia; Lic. JosC Jaime Slomianski Aguilar, Director del Instituto de
Capacitacibn Y Especializacibn del Poder Judicial Y de La Carrera Judicial; Lic. Alberto de Jes6s Canseco Girbn, Director de
Servicios Periciales; Arq. Arturo Cervantes Ortega, Coordinador de Infraestructura Judicial; Lic. Paulina Gomez Carreiio,
Comunicacibn Social; Lic. Hugo Villegas Aquino, Secretario General de Acuerdos; Lic. Roberto PCrez SBnchez, Visitador; Lic.
Guadalupe Rueda Contreras, Secretaria Judicial; Lic. Nancy F l e m i n g Tello, Ejecutora; Ing. Luis Montalvo Rosas, Jefe de
SoporteTCcnico.

Puebla:
Justices and Judges: Guillermo Pacheco Pulido, Magistrado Presidente del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Alfred0 Mendoza
Garcia, Magistrado, Presidente de la Cuarta Sala; Alvaro David Lbpez Rubi, Magistrado, Presidentede la Primera Sala; Carlos
Enrique HernandezRamirez, Magistrado, Integrante de la SegundaSala; Juan JosC Barrientos Granda, Magistrado, Integrante de
la Tercera Sala; Enrique Flores Ramos, Magistrado, Integrante de la Cuarta Sala; Fernando Humberto Rosales Breton,
Magistrado, Presidente de la Sexta Sala, Lic. JosC Montiel Rodriguez, Juez Mixto de Tetela del Campo; Lic. Maria Emma
PeraltaJukez, Juez Mixto de Tepeaca; Lic. Hugo Isaac Arzola Muiioz, Juez 7" de lo Civil.

                                                               57

Judicial Administrators and Oficials: Lic. Gabriel GonzAlez Alegria, Director del Centro de Mediacidn; Lic. Miguel Angel
Ordofiez Rosales, Director Administrativo; Lic. Patricia Beatriz SAnchez Ramos, Coordinadora General del Instituto de Estudios
Judiciales; Lic. Jose Muiioz Victoria, Secretario Auxiliar Adjunto; C.P. Ofelia del Carmen Nava PCrez, Directora de
Presupuesto; C.P. Nina Carral, Representante de la Contraloria Interna; Ing. Francisco Carranza Tlapa, Departamento de
Informatica; Lic. Gabriela Rivera, Centro de Mediacibn; Lic. Gumaro HernBndez Torrez, Director de Recursos Humanos; Dr.
Hugo Aguirre Caballero, Director del Servicio MCdico Legal; C.P. Hector RubCnMillBnSAnchez, Contralor Interno; Lic. Javier
PCrez Rocha, Director del Archivo Judicial; Psic. Patricia SAnchez Ramirez, Instituto de Estudios Judiciales; C.P. Guillermo
Montes GonzAlez, Subdirector de Servicios Generales; C.P. Miguel Angel Roldan y Velasquez, Jefe del Departamento de
Recursos Propios; Lic. Lourdes Zavala Leal, Jefe del Departamento de Control y Evaluacidn de Proyectos; C.P. Julio Cesar
Valdivieso Eugenio, Jefe del Departamentode Adquisiciones; Lic. German Enrique Garcia Pineda, Jefe de &ea de Control de
Inventarios; Ing. Alejandro FernandoJimCnez Aguilar, Soporte TCcnico.
Invited: C.P. Georgina Talamantes Contreras, Jefe del Departamentode Recursos Materiales; C.P. Patricia Maldonado Bernal,
Jefe del Departamento de RecursosHumanos; Ing. Arturo Edgar EstradaMacias (Nayarit), Jefe del Departamento de Bienes y
Servicios; C.P. Oscar Dionisio PCrez D6vila (Nayarit), Secretario de Administracidn; Banobras: Veronica Baranda; Rad1
Escalante and Francisco Amador; Manuel Dolores.

Quintana Roo:
Justices and Judges: Lic. Lizbeth Loy Song Encalada, Magistrada Presidenta del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Oscar
Enrique Aguilar Angulo, Magistrado Numerario de la Sala de Distrito del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Norma MariaLoria
Marin, Magistrada Supernumeraria de la Sala de Distrito del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Mag. Arturo Isidro Pacheco
Montalvo, Magistrado Numerario de la Sala de Distrito del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Mag. JosC Luis Saucedo Moreno,
Magistrado Numerario de la Sala de Distrito del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Carlos Francisco Sosa Huerta, Magistrado
Numerario de la Sala de Distrito del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Benjm'n Ariel Navarrete Silva, Juez Primero Penal de
Primera Instancia; Lic. Angel Isidro Quintal Quintal, Juez Civil de Primera Instancia; Lic. Andriana Rivero Mendoza, Juez
Segundo Civil de Primera Instancia; Lic. JosC MartinRuiz Estrada, Juez de Paz; Lic. Felipe de Jesds Solis Magaiia, Juez Mixto
de Primera Instancia; Lic. FidelVillanueva Rivero, Juez Penal de Primera Instancia; Lic. Beatriz Eugenia AbAn Villalobos, Juez
Tercero Civil de Primera Instancia; Lic. Francisco Victoria Ayuso, Juez Segundo Familiar de Primera Instancia; Lic. Mateo
Avila Arceo, Juez Segundo Penal de Primera Instancia; Lic. Wilberth Medina Castro, Juez Familiar de Primera Instancia; Lic.
Dulce Maria Balam Tuz, Juez Mixto de Primera Instancia; Lic. Alex Ramiro Buenffl Ayala, Juez Cuarto Penal de Primera
Instancia; Lic. Maria de GuadalupeCAmara Gonzdez, Juez Civil de Primera Instancia; Lic. Isidoro Castro Arrieta, Juez Primero
Penal de Primera Instancia; Lic. Victor Manuel Echeverria Tun, Juez Segundo Penal de Primera Instancia; Lic. Genoveva del
Rosario Hernandez Cantarell, Juez Cuarto Civil Primera Instancia; Lic. Gilbert0 Herrera Solis, Juez Tercero Penal de Primera
Instancia; Lic. Abraham Loeza Ortiz, Juez Mixto de Primera Instancia; Lic. Victoria Magdalena Alonzo Hod, Juez Primero
Familiar de Primera Instancia; Lic. Sandra Luz Morales GutiCrrez, Juez Primero Civil de Primera Instancia; Lic. Jorge Dario
Moo Tepal, Juez de Paz.
Judicial Administrators and Oficials: Lic. Antonio Lebn Ruiz, Secretario Paricular de la Magistrada Presidenta del Tribunal
Superior de Justicia; Lic. William Freddy de 10s Santos Candl Hernandez, Secretario General de Acuerdos de la Sala Civil
Tribunal Superior de Justicia; C.P. Jose Antonio Cuevas Ledn, Oficial Mayor del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Haydee
Molina Lagos, Jefa de la Unidad Administrativa del Poder Judicial del Estado; Lic. Jorge Eusebio Azueta Gorocica, Jefe del
Fond0 de Mejoramiento para la Administracidn de la Justicia; Lic. Nanina Aurora Azueta Herrera, Jefe de Recursos Materiales
del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Mario Javier Camelo Sanchez, Secretario de Acuerdos de la Sala de Distrito; Lic. Ana
Mercedes Castillo Carvajal, Secretariade Acuerdos de la Sala Penal del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; C.P. Humberto Ceballos
Vizcaino, Jefe del Departamento de Servicios Generales; Lic. Lucia Guadalupe Gorocica Coral, Directora del Centro de
Asistencia Juridica Zona Sur; Lic. Jorge Luis KumulCanchC, Jefe del Departamento de Contabilidad del Tribunal Superior de
Justicia; Lic. Modesto Llarena Moreno, Subdirector Financier0 del Fondo de Mejoramiento para la Administracidn de Justicia;
Lic. Luz AngClica Noverola Martin, Directora de Informatica del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; Lic. Claudia Ramirez Mex,
Directora Interina del Centro de Asistencia Juridica Zona Norte; Lic. Ena Rosa Range1Villanueva, Jefa de Recursos Humanos
del Tribunal Superior de Justicia; C. Carlos Cruz Hernandez Palacio de Justicia, Encargado del Archivo General del Poder
Judicial; Dr. Jose Manuel Avila Fernhndez, Director del Instituto de Estudios Juridicos; Lic. Maria Teresa Castro Rios; Lic.
Francisco Javier Reyes. SHCP: - Cecilia Cejudo.

Sonora:
Justices and Judges: Gonzalo Yescas Ferrat, Presidente del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia de Estado; Armida Elena Rodriguez
Celaya, Magistrada del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia del Estado; Sandra Luz Verdugo Palacios, Magistrada del Supremo
Tribunal de Justicia del Estado; Max GutiCrrez Cohen, Magistrado del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia del Estado; Miguel Ricardo
Quintana Tinoco, Magistrado del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia del Estado; Francisco GutiCrrez Rodriguez, Magistrado del
Supremo Tribunal de Justicia del Estado; Ignacio Mas Contreras, Magistrado del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia del Estado;

                                                               58

CCsar Sad1 Garcia Acosta, Presidente del Primer Tribunal Regional del Primer Circuito; Jorge Cota Zazueta, Presidente del
Segundo Tribunal Regional del Primer Circuito; Adela Ricaud Gamboa, Magistrada del Primer Tribunal Regional del Primer
Circuito; JosC Santiago Encinas Velarde, Magistrado del Primer Tribunal Regional del Primer Circuito; Aurora Velarde
Verdugo, Magistrada del Segundo Tribunal Regional del Primer Circuito; Jesds Mendoza Monge, Magistrado del Segundo
Tribunal Regional del Primer Circuito; Teresa de Jesds Fontes Agramont; Juez Segundo de Primera Instancia de lo Penal de
Hermosillo, Sonora; Gloria Soledad Conde Ortiz; Juez Primer0 de Primera Instancia de lo Mercantil de Hermosillo, Sonora;
Mirna Gloria CBHez Rivera, Juez Segundo de Primera Instancia de lo Familiar de Hermosillo, Sonora; Jes6s Rogelio Olivares
Abril, Juez Segundode Primera Instancia de lo Mercantil de Hermosillo, Sonora; Javier Enriquez Enriquez, Juez Segundode lo
Civil de Hermosillo, Sonora.
Judicial Administrators and Oflcials: Amado Estrada Rodriguez, Secretario General de Acuerdos del Supremo Tribunal De
Justicia Del Estado;-Victor Dal Pozzo Ldpez, Director General de Administracidn del Supremo Tribunal de Justicia; JosC
Antonio Ruiz Araujo, Coordinador General del Instituto de la Judicatura Sonorense; JosB Doming0 Fonseca Chon, Visitador
General Del Supremo Tribunal De Justicia; Marco Antonio Galaviz Ramfrez, Coordinador de la Central de Actuarios y
Notificadores; Sergio Calderdn ValdCs, Director General de Formacidn, Capacitaci6n Y Especializaci6n Judiciales; Ana
Mendoza Ibarra, SecretariaTCcnica del Consejo del Poder Judicial del Estado;
Invited: HCctor Contreras PCrez, Miembro de la Barra Sonorense de Abogados, A.C.; JosC Ricardo Bonillas Fimbres, Miembro
de la BarraSonorense de Abogados, A.C..




                                                            59

                                Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*

          MEXICO: State Judicial Modernization Supporting Access to Justice Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
    9 DraftStateJudicialModernizationPlanscompletewithannexesincludingthoseprovidingdescription,
        costs, implementation arrangements, procurementplans, and initial monitoringindicators from-
        Aguascalientes; Baja California; Chihuahua; Colima; Guanajuato; Mkxico; Nayarit; Oaxaca; Puebla;
        Sonora; andQuintanaRoo.
    9 Draft OperationalManualpreparedbyBANOBRAS

   Bank Staff Assessments, Reviewsand Other Reportsand Materialsinclude:
   FinancialManagementAssessment -Daniel Boyce, WB.
   FinancialManagementAssessment -Victor Ordonez, WB.
   ProcurementCapacity Assessment -LeaBraslavsky, WB.
   Juicio Ejecutivo Mercantil and Regional ResearchProjects, LinnHammergren, LCSPSWB.
   Diagndstico sobre la administracih de lajusticia en las entidadesfederativas - Jose Antonio Caballero
   Juarez, Hugo Alejandro ConchaCantu (National Center for State Courts and UNAM),MCxico, 2001.
   Modernizacion Judicial Context0y Problemas-Waleed Malik, Hugo Alejandro ConchaCantu, Maria
    Novoa, JoseAntonio CaballeroJuarez, WB Mexico.
    Judicial ReforminMexico: A Review - Hector Fix-Fierro, (Consultant WB) Mexico.
   Diagndstico Estatal de Guanajuato- Jose Antonio Caballero, Hugo Conchawith Waleed Malik WB.
    Planning reports and strategies -FaustinoBmon Consultant WB
    State sector review (inprogress) -Robert Buergenthaland Waleed Malik with OthersWB
    Mexico: a ComprehensiveDevelopmentAgenda for the New Era, Eds.Marcel0 Giugale, Olivier
    Lafourcade, and Vinh Nguyen, Chapter by LinnHammergren, WB.
    Risk managementideas and measures-Anthony Wanis St. John Consultant WB
    Gender InformationNeeds-Mary Cornish andAlexandra Habershon, WB.
    Stakeholderconsultation and analysis reports-Faustino BarronConsultant WB
    Mexico andIndigenousPeople: Ideasfor ImprovingJustice Services-Mary Cornish, WB.
    Gender andMexico -EngenderingMexico's State Justice Institutions, WB.
    FiscalImpact Review -Jozef Draaisma, and Maria GuadalupeToscano, WB.
    NGO Assessment -Jorge FrancoWB
    NGO Sample State Directory - SamMardel Consultant
    Consultation Workshop report -Miguel Sarre Consultant WB
    Infrastructure Assessment -Julia Mauser andLayla CastellanosConsultant WB
    Advisory Group DiscussionMinutesand inputmaterials
    Other studies: InformationTechnology Needs, workshop reports, option finder survey reports, NCSC
    meetingupdates, technical visit reports, seminarmaterials.
    Bibliography of severalarticles, sector reports and other materials.
    Electronic IRIS files, videos for the Project.

Note: The information anddata used in, or provided by, the PADcomes from World Bank sources such as
published reports, publication drafts, backgrounddraft, World Bank mission analysisreportsandfindings etc. as
well as from the StateJudicial Institutions' and other governmental and non governmentalinstitutions, local and
international researchand academicinstitutions published and under publicationreportsunless otherwise
specified.

*Including electronicfiles


                                                       60

                 Annex 9: InstitutionalContext and Challengesof State Judiciaries

          MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupportingAccess to Justice Project

This Annex provides a short institutional overview of the Mexicanjudicial systemwith specialemphasis on state
judiciaries-their  profile, current challengesand future role inthe social and economic developmentof Mexico.

Part A. Institutional context, and profile of thejudicial system

Governance and Legal Framework. The federal structure of Mexico is built on a classical division of powers
among the legislative, judicial and executive branches. Mexico's justice system i s comprised of 2 systems (the
state system comprising of 31 state courts plus the Federal District court system, as well as the federal court
system) along with corresponding ancillary justice institutions. The legal framework for the court system is
detailed in the Federal Constitution of Mexico (see, for example, Arts. 13-23, 40, 41, 94-107, 116, 133), state
constitutions, the Organic Laws of the court systems, as well as procedural laws regarding civil, family and
criminal matters. State courts and other justice sector agencies are organizationally independent of the federal
system, operating under separate organic, procedural, and substantive laws. [Although the judicial systems are
unique the terms "state judicial system" or "local judicial system" used here refer to the 31 State Courts and or
the FederalDistrict Court.]

Judicial Context and Profile. MCxico has a civil code tradition. Its justice sector institutions are divided
betweenthejudicial and executivebranches of government, andthe federal and state levels. At the federal level,
in addition to the federal courts (the federaljudicial branch), there are severaladministrative courts and agencies
that are part of the executive branch (e.g. Tribunal Federal de Conciliacidn y Arbitraje, responsiblefor hearing
labor disputes) responsible for justice provision. At the state level, the distribution of judicial institutions
generally mirrors the federal pattern. Box 9.1 provides a very simplified schematic of the federalktate-
judicial/executive organizational structurehighlighting statejudicial systems and their interplay with other actors
injustice administration.
Box 9.1




                                                       61

                                                                     Justice Svstem
                                                                (Simplified Schematic)
              State Executive Branch                StateJudidalBranch             Federal JudicialBran&    Federal ExecutiveBranch




         *-Suprema   CortedeJusflciade laNacim
         **The1 States
                SuperiorTnbunalof JustlceCTSJ)
         ***3ludcialCwncils
                      and 1FederalDstnct
                             havebeencreatedonly inm e state6
         tTheCourtofMillwryJushcenotincluded


  Overall Size, Workload and Budget. Overall (federal plus state) there are about 6,000 judges (justices,
  magistrados,judges, judges of the peace etc.) in Mexico (about 16,800 persons per judge). About 3,600 belong
  to the state judicial branches (about 28,000 persons per judge), and the rest to the federal judicial branch and
  administrative courts at the federal and state levels4.According to recent dataavailable (2000), annualbudget for
  the federal judicial system i s about 16billion Pesos, and for the statejudicial systems i s about 6.7 billion Pesos
  (combined total for the 31 states and the FederalDistrict).

  Mexico's overalljudicial system receives about 1million new cases per year, which are mainly adjudicated by
  the state court systems pertaining to civil, family and penal matters. The federal judicial branch, the federal
  administrative courts and the state administrative courts generally handle other matters, which include federal
  appeals (amparos) from state court systems, and labor, agrarian, fiscal, bankruptcy, drugs, military and other
  matters.

  State Courts' Demand, Capacity, Organization, and Administrative Structures. Reviews indicate that about
  80% of alljudicial cases are adjudicated by state court systems. They receive approximately 800,000 new case
  filings per year, divided among civil, family and criminal cases (typically about 60, 20 and 20 percent
  respectively). The state court system lacks adequate financial, human and other resources to meet the
  accumulated and growing demand, and social and economic development needs. Institutional capacities are
  weak compared with the federal courts, and vary considerably. Only a few have performance improvement
  modernization programs.

  State courts and other justice sector agencies are organizationally independent from the federal system, with
  their own organic, procedural, and substantive laws.                             Their basic legal framework resembles the federal
  structure. The Presidents of all of the State Superior or Supreme Tribunals of Justice represent the entire
  institution. There i s a specialization of tasks according to administrative or jurisdictional activities. The



Based on Mexico's populationof 100.9 millionin 2002.
                                                                              62

President of the Judiciary i s the deciding authority in some administrative matters. The Plenary chamber is the
authority injurisdictional matters, andeven in some cases inadministrative matters.

In some states the line is drawn even more clearly between administrative and jurisdictional structures with
Judiciary Councils. Insuch cases, thejurisdictional structures comprise a Superior or Supreme Court of Justice,
with a Plenary Chamber, a president and courts of appeal, first instance and small claims courts. The courts of
first instance are charged with hearing and resolving disputes relating to civil (including commercial), family,
and criminal matters. Some judiciaries have courts of first instance with both civil and criminal jurisdiction.
The small claim courts, in the judiciaries that have them, have mixed jurisdictions and hear civil, family, and
commercial cases. Some states still have independentmunicipalcourts.

The administrative structures, in broad terms, include: an Administrative Office, with human and material
resourcesunits, a Treasury, an Office of Govemment Accounting, and an Office in chargeof the Fondo Auxiliar
for the Administration of Justice (court revenues from fines, deposits etc.). Operations and information
management are handled by the Departments of Statistics, a Library, an Information andor Information
Technology (IT) Unit, and lastly offices that support jurisdictional bodies; e.g. Inspector General. About 15
states havejudicial councils to administer the courts or performa mix of administrative and orjudicial functions.
Intheir concepts, these Councils were to be disciplinary and managementoversight bodies, but they sometimes
simply complementedthe work of the PlenaryChamber, and do not supersede their authority.

Other Institutions.

Federal ExecutiveBranch Institutions:
ci Office of the Attorney General of the Republic (Procuraduria General de la Repu'blica)is responsible for
securing federal and social justice It has agencies for criminal proceedings and judicial and criminal support
services. It i s responsiblefor coordinating police, judicial, criminal, andtechnological services.
Z The Federal Tribunalfor Conciliationand Arbitration (Tribunal Federal de Conciliacion y Arbitraje) an
administrative court, deals with labor disputes. The Court i s structured around three chambers, with three
magistrates each and a Plenary Chamber of 10 magistrates. Representatives of the Federation of Unions,
govemment and workers participate in the chamber's proceedings. In 2001, there were 43,103 new individual
claims filed (37,950 resolved) and 504 new collective claims filed (405 resolved); in 2002, there were 23,787
new individual claims filed (20,504 resolved) and 127new collective claims filed (176 resolved).
 LI Procuradun'a Federal de la Defensa del Trabajo deals with the prevention and conciliation of labor
disputes, offering free legal services such as advice and representation to workers, labor unions, and other
beneficiaries, to protect and defend labor rights. In 2001, the Federal Office provided 32,3 18 consultation and
3,317 conciliation services, and a total of 3,009 trials were initiated; in 2002, there were 23,360 consultations,
3,269 conciliations, and 3,162 trials initiated.
 G The Federal Tribunal of Fiscal and Administrative Justice (Tribunal Federal de Justicia Fiscal y
Administrativa). This administrative court deals chiefly with fiscal matters, although its jurisdiction has grown.
Italso deals with disputesthat arisebetweencitizens andthe FederalPublicAdministration.
 1 Office of the Attorney General for Fiscal Matters (Procuraduria Federal Fiscal) is an institution
subordinated to the Ministry of the Treasury and Public Credit for which it provides advice, produces
documentationfor drafting fiscal laws, legal instruments such as fiscal conventions. It is also responsiblefor the
appeals under its jurisdiction and for ensuring that sanctions are imposed when crimes are committed against the
Federal Fiscal Code and federal fiscal laws, except when another branch or administrative authority of the
Ministry hasjurisdiction.
 E The Superior Court of Agrarian Justice (Tribunal Superior Agrario) i s the highest court in the agrarian
judicial system. It has jurisdiction over: a) revising sentences of the lower courts, regarding territorial
delimitation of property, land restitutions, etc; b) revising the administrative resolutions of the agrarian
authorities; c) resolving any conflict of jurisdiction betweenthe lower agrariancourts.
 L Procuraduria Agraria is a social service institution with ombudsman attributes, responsiblefor protecting
the rights of citizens involved in agrarian disputes. It protects and fosters the provisions of law in the matter of
rural property and proposes new measures aimed at strengtheninglegal safeguards in agrarianmatters.


                                                         63

E Federal Consumer Protection Agency (Procuraduria Federal del Consumidor - PROFECO) has the
mission of fostering and assuringfairness and legal safeguards inconsumer-business relations and defending the
rightsof consumers.
Z    The National Commissionfor Medical Arbitration (Comisidn Nacional deArbitraje Mkdico - CONAMED)
was established in 1996 as an alternative dispute resolution instrument in the medical field, to obtain non-
litigious solutions to medical disputesand promoteimprovementsinthe structure of the health system. Its goal is
to promote medical arbitration mechanisms as an alternativeto juridical channels.
3 The National Commission for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services (Comisi6n
Nacional para la Protecci6n y Defensa de 10s Usuarios de Servicios Financieros - CONDUSEF) serves to
promote, advise, protect and defend persons who use financial products or services of Mexican financial
institutions.
0 The Federal Environmental Protection Agency (Procuraduria Federal de Proteccio'n a1 Ambiente -
PROFEPA) is responsible for environmental justice and the compliance with environmental laws and
regulations.
-    The Military Court of Justice (Tribunal de Justicia Militar) relates exclusively to crimes committed under
military disciplinary rules, andby military personnel.
_I   Procuraduria General de Justicia Militar is the institution responsible for the administration of military
justice.
Z     The National Commissionfor Human Rights (Autonomous) (Comisibn Nacional de Derechos Humanos)
was created on January 28, 1992, when the protection and defense of human rights became constitutionally
regulated. It can deal with complaints of human rights violations by any official or civil servant, with the
exception of the Judiciary Branch, investigate such complaints, and formulate recommendations for the
competent authorities.

State Executive Branch Znstitutions include: Typically each state may have a different set of institutions. An
exampleof thejustice institutions of the State of Aguascalientesis provided below:


      1The Public Prosecutor's Office (Procuraduria de Justicia Estatal del Estado de Aguascalientes)
      prosecutes crimes committed in the State, except those falling under federal jurisdiction. The General
      Prosecutoris also LegalAdvisor to the government.
      C The Local Courtfor Conciliationand Arbitration (Junta Local de Conciliacibny Arbitraje del Estadode
     Aguascalientes)is a local administrative court, which deals with disputes in labor relations betweenthe State
      of Aguascalientes and workers, employers and employees. The administrative court enjoys total
     jurisdictional autonomy in issuing decisions and resolutions. For the exercise of its functions, the court
      counts onthe administrative support of the Executive authority.
      U The Administrative Court of the State (Tribunales de lo Contencioso Administrativo del Estado de
      Aguascalientes) has the chief function of resolving disputes between state or municipal authorities or their
      institutions and individuals. It also can issue: a) decisions against the resolutions of the state, municipal
      authorities or their institutions, which infringes on rights and interests of individuals; b) decide against the
      resolutions of any fiscal authority or institution on fiscal obligations; c) annul any illegal resolution
      unfavorableto an individual, when the state or municipalauthorities file such aclaim.
      0 The Tutelary and Social Reeducation Council (Consejos Tutelaresy ReeducacibnSocial para menores
      del EstadodeAguascalientes) seeks to protect minors and enforces responsibilities of parents, grandparents,
      etc.
      3 The Rehabilitation and Social Prevention Center (Centros de Readaptacidn y Prevencidn Social del
      Estadode Aguascalientes)has as its mainpurposethe rehabilitation of former inmates.
      3 The Citizen Protection Agency (Procuraduria de Proteccidn Ciudadana del Estado deAguascalientes)is
      responsiblefor the protection of human rights in the State of Aguascalientes.




                                                         64

Part B. Current problems of statejudiciaries

Current complaints about thejustice system concern: its ability to meet escalatingdemands for services, updating of
laws and administrative processes, financial and human resources management, independence, alleged corrupt or
biaseddecisions, and accessibility for the vast majority of poor or otherwise marginalized citizens.

External weaknesses:

Weak public image. After many years of beingclose to the executive branch andhavingproblems of independence,
efficiency and corruption, Mexican statejudiciaries are perceived to lack sufficient legitimacy as conflict resolution
bodies. In some cases, there is no public awareness of the role of the judiciary. According to the information
published in 2001 by the Ministry of Interior? only 27% of Mexico's population trust the Judicial Branch. A survey
of youth showed that only 15% expressed trust in these institutions.6 The Mexican Chapter of Transparency
International published the results of a poll where 38 government activities were tested for corruption. Thejudiciary
was placed inposition "28" (Ibeingthe least corrupt activity).

Subordination of state courts to the federal courts through amparos. Under the amparo system, federal
judges review alleged violations by the authorities of the guarantees established by the Constitution.
Federaljudges also review the decisions handeddown by the state and administrative courts to examinepossible
procedural violations.

Some 50,000 amparo cases were sent to the federal courts from 1999-2000,of which 29,000 came from the state
judiciaries. Federalcourtjudgments on direct amparos must be adheredto by the state courts, thereby curtailingthe
latter's powers. This causes significant institutional problems, such as the extendedlength and cost of litigationand
the reducedlegitimacy of localcourts in the public's eyes. However, federal review has served to correct mistakes of
some state courts.

Confusion regarding the jurisdiction of judicial authorities in commercial cases. Commercial legislation in
Mexico is primarily in the federal domain but both state and federal courts have jurisdiction over commercial
matters. Infact, the great majority of commercial cases are initiated inthe state courts. As a result, local courts must
allocate a significant portion of their resourcesto processingcommercial cases intheir courts. Some 60 to 80 percent
of the 600 to 1,000 cases heardin any civiljurisdiction are business-related.

Deficient institutional operation of the overall criminal justice system. Deficiencies in the legal design of
criminal procedureaffect the possibility of securing effective due process inthese cases. Lack of capacity by police
 agents and prosecutors to conduct a professional investigation are involved. According to a 1997 study, from the
total investigations conducted in all the states, only 23% were concluded, and only 11.6% were finally presentedto
judges to initiate a trial? Despite the fact that the suspects are entitled to defend themselves during this phase,
 prosecutors usually tend to obstruct such processes resulting in unequal treatment. A survey of some prison
 populations reveals that only 30% of people being investigated have adequate legal representation.' Some analysts
 considerthat at this point the criminalprocedurebecomes inquisitorial and affects rightsto a fair defense.

 Weak monitoring of professional competence and operation. Today Mexico has approximately 140,000 law
 students; law is the second most popular university course of study. Yet only about 15% complete their studies, and
 only 50% of these obtain their degree. The lack of governmental controls over professional certification, or any
 other type of control (such as a bar associationsor tribunals) create a serious problem with regard to the quality of
 the legal profession.There are indications of falsification of legal professional titles also. There is some belief that,


    Programa Especial para el foment0 de la Cultura Democrhtica, Poder Ejecutivo Federal-Secretaria de Gobemacidn, Secretaria de
 Gobemacidn, 2001.
   Jdvenes mexicanos del siglo XXI. Encuesta Nacional de Juventud 2000. Secretaria de Educacidn Publica, 2002.
 'Zepeda, Guillermo, Expectativas dejusticia defraudadas: la actuacidn de las procuradurfas de justicia en el esclarecimiento y persecucidnde
 10s delitos, en Dialoao y debate de cultura politica, numero 12, pp. 151-176, Centro de estudios para la reforma del Estado, MCxico, 2000.
 *Bergman, Marcel0 (coord.), Delincuenciu. Mur,&ulidad Y desemuefioinsfztucional, Centro de Investigaci6ny Docencia Economica, 2003.
                                                                        65

only 15% of private defenders are effective? The more specialized cases such as amparo trials are handled by
specializedlawyers, which translatesinto higher costs.

Low quality of ancillary legal advice and public defense services. Legal advice and assistance are weak at state
levels. Almost half of the criminal courts do not havepublic defenders, andthey tend to be inadequatelytrained. The
federal courts also count on the services of legal advisors, who assist citizens with legal problems. However, there
are none inthe state courts, which is serious since they reducethe workload of the courts. At state levels the quality
and capacity of public defender servicesis at best weak.

Human resources. The salaries and incentives offered by the federaljudiciary are very difficult for local and state
judiciaries to match. In many cases, staff with comparablejob profiles and skills are offered twice or three times
more in the federal system. Since there are at best limited options for professional development and training in state
judiciaries, they are handicappedinattracting and retaining staff.

Limited influence on budget. Inmost states there are still mechanisms that require thejudiciary to present a budget
proposal to the executive branch. Thus, judiciaries face a great deal of uncertainty regarding their budget on a yearly
basis.

Internal weaknesses:

Lack of Proper Design and Evaluation of Judicial Policies. Localjudicial policies needbetter conditions to help
them buildstandard, coherentandconsistent agendas.

The problem i s caused by the following: (i)          lack of institutional spaces that allow for information exchange, debate
and negotiation of judicial concerns; (ii)         lack of mechanisms for planning activities related to designing decision
agenda; (iii)   most local judiciaries do not have communication with other social and political actors; (iv) lack of
mechanisms to create, update and process information in a timely fashion; (v) failure to design policies so as to
balance political and technical factors; and (vi) weak coordination at the execution stage. There i s an absence of
planning bureausor their equivalent within the judiciaries.

         Lack of Sutmlv and Demand rationale. Statejudiciaries lack policies to regulate the demand and supply of
judicial services. Studiesthat could provide useful informationfor decision makingare scarce or nonexistent. Instead
institutional planning i s a reaction to such pressures as case overload in neighbor regions, demands from the mass
media (or other actors) or preferencesof the membersof the plenary chamber orjudiciary councils.

Judicial Independence. Local judiciaries still face important challenges to their internal independence, both as
autonomousdecision makers and as entities isolated from pressures on their administrative elements.
     .   Hierarchical Subordination. Despite strengthening of the independence of many judiciaries, the strong
    traditions that has longcharacterizedthejudiciaries remain intact.

     Hierarchical subordination is still excessive. Many of these judiciaries are still unable to organize regularly and
     systematic exams to determine who will be appointed as ajudge, or the place where they will serve. In 2000, in
     many of the institutions where these exams exist there were important deficiencies, both intheir design and their
     application."

     In 2000, it was reported that 27% of states had no unit in charge of disciplinary controls. At the same time,
     disciplinary procedures were criticized for being extremely formalistic. In some cases, disciplinary procedures


       Unpublishedmaterials supplied by the Tribunal Superior de Justicia del D.F. and the National Center for State Courts, September
     2002.
     loConcha and Caballero, Diannostico para la administracidn de iusticia en las entidades federativas. Un estudio institucional sobre la
    justicia local en Mkxico. Institutode investigacionesJuridicas, UNAM,MBxico, 2001.

                                                                    66

provided limited scope for judges to defend themselves. Discipline procedures also present problems from the
users' perspective.

     Administrative procedures.There now is more independence for judiciaries inthe management of their new
role as administrators but this has brought a new range of problems. Many state courts have not been able to
successfully implement comprehensive,reliable management systems.

. Judicial Uncertainty. Judicial independence is affected by the fact that similar cases receive different
resolutions. This negativity impacts on the judiciary's reliability. Efforts to produce more uniformity injudicial
resolutionsare still scarce.

Lack of Institutional Capacity. The state judicial branch is comprised of                           three functional structures:
jurisdictional, administrative, and ancillary. In the provision of judicial services, the delays and inefficiency of
the great majority of courts are due to the inherent weaknesses of these institutional structures (organizational,
procedural, technological, and physical). Also, there is deficient communication, confusion in terms of both
functional distribution and lines of authority, and weak implementation.

. Integral Budget Policy. Budgetary planning for statejudiciaries tends to be on a short term basis. Critical
estimates needed for effective budget proposals and planning are rare. Judicial branches tend to limit their
budget planning to estimating future costs based on past practice. The decision making process is often
characterized by improvisation. Resource utilization mechanisms within state judicial branches lack
sophistication; their data i s scarce, and of low quality.

. Lack of coordinatedwork amongunits. Someevidenceof lack ofcoordination is found inthe absenceof a
public management system, undue centralization of both decisions and operations, evidence of unsound
development of humanresources.
 .   Human Resources. There i s a great needfor better planning andevaluation mechanisms,and systems for the
planningandoversight of humanresourcefunctions.

 . Evaluation systems. State judiciaries need better administrative, disciplinary and performance controls,
despite progress in recent years. Inspections and control visits to courts are still characterized by excessive
formalism. There are no parameters and criteria for systematic evaluation. There have not been any
improvementsinpersonnelperformanceindicators.

     Physical Infrastructure. Current facilities are generally dilapidated. They constrain citizen access to courts in
many locations, in particular in rural areas and towns. Judiciaries rarely own the buildings they use. Frequently,
decisions regarding the location and permanenceof the courts are taken without consideration of the needs of
justice administration. There is a need to explore other options to improve courthouse provision in different
locations.

 . UnevenResourceAllocation. The allocation of resources in state court systems is not always the result of a
 monitoring process that evaluates the needs of each court. Courthouses in state capitals or important cities are
usually betterequippedthan others, even iftheir workload i s similar or lower than that of ruralcourts.

 .   Weak technological capacity. Many courts still operate with little or no technological support. There are
institutions where equipment continues to be either inadequate or underused. In most cases, major capital
investments are being advanced without a specific program. Only half or less of the country's courthouses
receiveadequate computer equipment, of which only half i s consideredto be usedin an optimal manner."



   Concha and Caballero, Diaanostico uara la administracio'n de iusticia en las entidades federativas. Un estudio institucional sobre la
justicia local en M&co, Instituto de Investigaciones Juridicas, UNAM,MCxico, 2001.

                                                                67

Procedural and Operational Deficiencies.


a   InadequateCase Management. The excessivereliance on legislated rules produces highly inefficient forms
of case administration (formalism). There are no officials supervising the filing and follow up of each case,
leaving this type of work to thejudge. Cases are filed and processed through practices learned over generations,
without the use of modern techniques and technological advances. Studies show the need for procedural
simplification. Case management would also be facilitated by fast track proceduresfor the more simple cases.

    Backlogs and delays. Inefficiency and the problems derived and associated with it, cause large backlogs
throughout the country. In the same time, it i s the surface symptom of numerous problems; e.g. lack of
organizational and technological quality standards, andhumanresourceprofessionalization.

    Poor Statistical Records. The lack of sound statistics makes the assessment of backlogs, delays and
enforcement patterns difficult. Judges complain that the system does not produce automatic and reliable
statistics.

    Inefficient Bailiff and Clerk Operations and Supervision. Inadequate supervision of bailiffs and in some
cases corrupt practices cause delays. Many bailiffs are unionized, making management control difficult. Also,
the number of staff assignedto these tasks i s generally low. Bailiffs complain that they lack adequate transport
facilities andpolice security to performtheir functions, andthat postal systemproblems delay their work.

.   Uneven Workload distribution. An uneven distribution of workloads contributes to the overload of some
judges. There is not reliable informationbase forjudicial performance andrational court distribution.

    InadequateUser-accessibleInformation The information that i s available to the parties in a legal process i s
normally very deficient inbothcontent andavailability. Some complain of corruption by court employees for the
provision of specific informationeventhough it is inthe public domain.

. Excessive delay in urosecution. The work of prosecutors in many states is slow and weak. Lawyers
complain of problems in investigations and delays in preparing paperwork for submission to judges. According
to the Attorney General's Office, only about 25% of matters actually make it to a judge for the case to initiate,
signaling defects ininvestigations andother aspects.

    Lack of proactive iudges and control over parties. In commercial proceedings, the burden of proof and
standards of evidence are usually less strict than in criminal proceedings. But civil justice proceedings are
typically filled with different measures to guard against possible violations of the defendant's rights. Lawyers
usually use them abusively, for which more judicial control may be needed. Since judicial career systems are
weak, judges feel that if they push lawyers to follow strict time limits, complaints would be launched against
them, and these would affect their chances of promotionas well as their images.

Barriers to the Use of Legal and Judicial Services.

     Access for the poor and disadvantaged. As a large proportion of the population is considered poor,
judiciaries must provide solutions to their problems. Some states have tried to improve access by establishing a
system of small claims courts but the outcome has not been completely satisfactory. Many of these courts are
clearly underused.So there is still a large part of the population that remains outside thejudicial system. Judges
needto be more creativeinpromotingavenues for people to accessthejudicial system.

.    Access from a gender persuective.Froma gender perspective,there are two types of problems. On one hand,
there is still an inequitable integration of the judiciaries. In2000, the ratio of male to femalejudges was 2.4:l.
The plenary chambers as well as the heads of most of the administrative offices are clearly dominated by male
judges and administrators. Intrial courts, in contrast, the ratio between men and women registers a favorable
tendency towards equity.


                                                        68

   On the other hand, almost thirty percent of Mexico's day workers are women, for whom a lack of information
   impedes accessto justice. Infamily disputes, women face difficulties obtaining child support, restraining orders
   and divorce judgments. Judiciaries also face complications related to compliance. Despite recent efforts to
   mitigate family violence, prosecutors and courts have not been able to successfully enforce statutes that protect
   women and childrenfrom domestic violence.
    -   Access for indigenous groups. Throughout much of the country there are indigenous populations calling for
   judiciaries to address their cultural, ethnic and language needs. There has been increasingactivism on the part of
    indigenous advocacy groups for the recognition of indigenous rights and equality before the law. Some state
   judiciaries have started taking measures to improve their access to justice but generally, there i s a need to
    promote cultural sensitivity training among the ordinary court systemjudges and officials. Also, there is a need
    to promote programs for interpreters, bilingual judges and to prepare informational materials in indigenous
    languages on the operations of the ordinary court systems. There is also an important problem inthat specialized
   jurisdictions are usually very limited in their subject matter competence. Therefore, judges cannot hear criminal
    cases, except for those that involve minor crimes.

    . ConuDtion. Inside the judiciary, the two predominant types of irregular activity are "tips" paid to court
    officials when they perform a certain task, or payments to court clerks to notify people when there is useful
    information.

    . Low citizen confidence, lack of information. and disconnect between the Judicial Branch and society.
    Studies indicate that perceptionsof the efficiency ofjudicial operations in Mexico are among the lowest inLatin
    America. Society at large i s unaware of the workings of the judiciary, and cannot assess its performance
    properly. For its part, members of thejudiciary are inadequatelyinformedabout the characteristicsof the society
    that they serve, and of the perceptionsthat the public has of thejudicial function.

InitialDevelopment of Alternative Dispute ResolutionMethods. Alternative dispute resolution mechanismshave
been contemplated by Mexican statutes for many years. However, efforts to take advantage of these have been
scarce and Judges are usually skeptical about them. Nonetheless, over the last few years, several judiciaries have
established new alternative dispute resolution programs or are getting ready to implement them. Judiciaries are
rediscovering their relevanceas instrumentsto help reducethe number of cases inthe courts, as well as methodsthat
helppromotebetter conflict resolution.

Limited Knowledge-Sharing among Institutions. Knowledge-sharing i s intermittent and weak on issues such as
researchandtraining, and is focused only on isolated modules for case managementsystems. Despite some years of
national meetings, there is limited capacity among jurisdictional and administrative staff in pursuing and leading
integral modernizationand reformprograms.

Lack of Information, Transparency and Accountability. Statejudicial branches are typically not accustomedto
providing information or to being scrutinized by society, nor are they amenable to control mechanisms. There is a
lack of mechanisms to share experiences and information among different judiciaries and within institutions.
Recent democratization steps have led to the approval of legislation in this area, several states have passed laws on
transparency and access. Most judiciaries in the country need to improve accountability mechanisms. They lack
processesby which individuals cancomplain about the behavior or actions taken byjudicial officials.

Part C. Role of State Judiciaries inDevelopment

Statejudiciaries can play an increasedrole in social andeconomic development and help address other
developmentalchallenges, some of which are set out inMexico's NationalDevelopment Plan, discussedbelow.

Economic Development and Competitiveness. The ongoing regional and global integration of Mexico's economy
means that future growth will, to an ever greater extent, rely on "enhanced competitiveness in international



                                                           69

              However, the World Economic Forum's index of national competitivenessfor growth puts Mexico 45th
out of 80 countries taking into account the condition of public institutions and g0~ernance.l~Clearly, there i s an
opportunity for improvement.

Strengtheningthe judicial sector will provide a solid foundation for the public and private investment that is needed
for Mexico's fuller participation in the global economy. Foreign investors, in assessing their investment risk, look at
a country's dispute resolution capacity. Therefore, the capacity of the judicial sector to optimally manage public,
private and commercial disputes has a two-way relationship with economic growth. Growth leads to more
sophisticateddemand for transparent judicial authorities, while a functioning judiciary also diminishes some of the
uncertainty that discouragesforeign and domestic investment.
Building Institutional Capacity. Development initiatives in Mexico take place within a dynamically changing
framework of gove~mance.'~         Inacontext of decentralization,new accountability to voters and marketsandincreasing
autonomy, the institutions of state governmentshaveto updatetheir skills, performanceand adaptability to change.
Public Security. Mexico's government and civil society link the growth of violent and organizedcrime to problems
in the administration of justice, police andjudicial corruption. The traditional definitions of security practiced by
Mexico and many other countries functioned to preservethe state and its regimes, often at the expense of the human
rights of their citizens. Mexico's current National Development Plan explicitly seeks to reverse this. Mexico's
government now defines security far more broadly than the old national security paradigms ~errnitted.'~                   It includes
explicit reference to human rights, personal security, protection from natural and environmental disasters and
national defense against drug and arms trafficking, among other hazards. This emerging view of public security as a
development concern calls attention to the needfor improvement in the administration ofjustice, the rule of law and
strengtheningof institutions at the level where they most touch citizens' lives-the state level.




 I 2Marcelo Giugale, "Synthesis," inMexico: A ComprehensiveDevelopmentAgenda.
 l3PeterCornelius andKlaus Schwab, eds. WorldEconomic Forum, TheGlobal CompetitivenessReport        2000-2003, cited inRicardo
 Macouzet and Luis Gonzalez, "La Polftica Exterior y el Comercio de Mexico," Este Pais (April 2003).
 l4 Marcelo Giugale, "Synthesis," inMexico: A ComprehensiveDevelopmentAgenda.
 Is"Plan NacionaldeDesarrollo."   Q 7.3.1., Independenciay Soberania.
                                                                    70

                             Annex 10: A Review of Judicial Reformin Mexico

        MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupportingAccessto Justice Project

  I. Introduction

 This Annex provides an overview of the Mexican legal and judicial system-its                        reform process and its
 contemporary structure-and           identifies the principal challenges facing overall legal and judicial reform in
 Mexico16.

 11.        FederalJudicial Reform

 The events leading to the 1994Reform

 The year 1994 was a tuming point for the Mexicanjudiciary. In order to fully understand these and later
 reforms, it is necessary to examine the structural changes that occurredover the previous two decades:

 e          Socio-demographic trends. Between 1940and 1990, Mexico's populationquadrupled, the urbanto
 rural population ratio was inverted, life expectancyat birthnearly doubled, illiteracy was reducedby a factor
 of five amongpersons 15 years andolder, andalmost half the working populationtransferred fromthe rural
 sectorto industrialand service sectors.

 e          Economic reform. The administration that took office in 1982liberalized the Mexicaneconomy,
 opening it upto the world market.Mexicojoined the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs andTrade (GATT) in
 1986andnegotiatedthe North American FreeTrade Agreement (NAFTA) with the UnitedStates and
 Canada.

 e          Political change. After 1988, the PRI-dominated govemment saw itself forced to negotiate several
 electoral reforms with opposition parties(in 1990, 1993, 1994and 1996). The reforms addressedthe
 independenceof the agency chargedwith organizing elections, the reliability of the voters' registry, the
 mechanismsfor the settlementof electoral disputes andcampaign financing. This createdcompetition
 betweenpoliticalpartiesat all levels of govemment, and thus an independentbody was neededto serve as an
 impartialagency for dispute resolution.

 e          Legal change. Duringthe 1980s, the Mexican legal systemalso experiencedan acceleratedprocess
 of change. This increasedthe prevalenceof legalrules and institutions in social life, andthe law was
 transformedfrom beingmerely a symbol into atechnical, practical andeffective instrument.

   The 1994Reform

 InDecember1994,PresidentEmestoZedillointroducedabilltotheSenateproposingtoamendseveral
 Articles of the FederalConstitution relatedto thejustice system.17

 The bill forced all twenty-six sittingjustices of the SupremeCourt into early retirement. The bill also
 proposedthat the Court retumto its originalcomposition of 11justices because casebacklogwas no longer a
 problem andthe Court's administrative tasks were beingtransferred to the Council of the FederalJudiciary.`8


l6Summary basedon the reportpreparedduringProjectpreparationby HectorFix Fieroandother missionfindingsandongoing work
availableinProjectfiles, see Annex 8 for referencereportsandmaterial.
I7InJuly 14,1994, Zedillo, then presidentialcandidateof the rulingPartidoRevolucionarioInstitucional(PRI), madean important
campaignspeechinGuadalajara,inthe Mexicanstate of Jalisco.The speechdelineated"ten proposals for anew securityandjustice
system". Six out of the tenproposalsreferredto crimecontrolandcriminaljustice issues. See Zedillo (1994).
  See "Iniciativa de reformas de 10s BrganosdelPoderJudicialde l a Federacih", inFix-ZamudiolCossioDiaz (1996, 583-584). The
contentionthatbacklogwas almost "nonexistent" admits of somequalification. Accordingto Supreme Court statistics, onDecember
lst, 1994,the Court still had2,366 pendingcases onits docket (Informe de labores de la Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nacidn,
                                                            71

Furthermore, it broadenedthe Court's jurisdiction inConstitutional cases andestablishedthe Council of the
FederalJudiciary as the governing body of the federal courts. Finally, it instituted a formal "judicial career."
The amendingdecree was published on December 31, 1994."

 Subsequently, in 1996, the Supreme Court was granted the power to review the constitutionality of federal
 and state electoral laws-(the amparo)-which             had been excluded from its purview by the 1994 reform. In
 1999, a new Constitutional Amendment increased the influence of the Supreme Court by mandating it to
 appoint four of the seven members of the Council of the Federal Judiciary, and assigning it the power to
 review the Council's most important decisions. Additionally, the Amendment granted the Supreme Court the
 power to decide which cases it hears based on their importance and relevance, sending the rest to the
 Collegiate Circuit ~ourts.2~

 The Amendments to the FederalConstitution over the past ten years have conferred greater power, authority
 and visibility on the federal courts ingeneral, and on the SupremeCourt inparticular, vis-&vis other branches
 of government. The willingness of the Mexican government to transfer power to the courts is likely explained
 by the growing political pluralism within the country, creating incentives for both the ruling party and the
 opposition to question the President's political authority. Consequently, the President is increasingly unable
 to be the arbiter of last resort.

 The Constitutional Amendments of 1994therefore were intendedto strengthenthe independenceofjudges
 bothexternally (vis-&-vis other branches of government) and internally (vis-&vis otherjudges)

 ExternalIndependence

 The Mexican political system has historically manipulatedjudicial independencechanges in the terms of the
judicial office, and in the rules of jurisdiction. Politically sensitive matters such as elections were excluded
 fromthe purview of the Judicial Branch.

 The reforms of 1994 diminished the probability that judicial appointments would be made for "political"
 reasons, rather than on merit. The 1994 reform changed the rules regarding the terms of office for Supreme
 Court justices. Previously, justices were appointed by the President and ratified by the Senate, following the
 US model. After 1994, the President was obligated to submit a list of three names for each vacant post, and
 the Senate makes the appointment by a two thirds majority, after conducting a hearing with the candidates
 (Article 96). The Constitution now also requires that candidatesto the Supreme Court not have occupiedhigh
 political positions, such as Secretary of State, Attorney General, member of Congress, etc. during the year
 prior to their appointment (Article 95, section VI Mex. Const.), and they may not occupy any of these
 positions for aperiodof two years after retiringfrom the Supreme Court (Article 101Mex. Const.).

 Judicial independence has also been increaseddue to the allocation of financial resourcesto thejudiciary. The
 1994 reform extended Article 127 of the Federal Constitution-that                     certain public officials, including
 SupremeCourtjustices, have a right to adequate compensationwhich can be neither waived nor diminished
 duringtheir time in office-to         circuit and district judges (Article 94 Mex. Const.). It also provided that the
 Supreme Court and the Council of the Federal Judiciary prepare a judicial budget that must be included,
 without changes, in the Draft Budget of the Federation for its discussion and approval by the Chamber of
 Deputies(Article 100Mex. Const.).




1995,Anexo, at 429). Of course this is afar cry fromabacklogof almost 38 thousand casesthat hadaccumulatedon the Court's
docketinthe 1950s(Fix ZamudioKossioDiu, 1996,583).
l9SeepressreportsinLa Jomada,Reforma andExcdlsior, December 1994.
2o Some of the mostdistinguishedconstitutionalscholarshaveexpressedrather critical views onthis amendment, See Carpizo(2000),
Cossio Diaz(2001).
                                                           72

  InternalIndependence

  Traditionally, the Supreme Court had the power to appoint, and apply disciplinary measures to federal
  judges.*' Thus, the internal independence ofjudges couldbe compromised.The introduction of examinations
  for the selection and appointment of lower federal judges has weakened the internal links of dependence
  between them. A greater degree of judicial independence and power must be coupled with more developed
  and effective accountability mechanisms, which has indeed been observed in Mexico since the 1994Judicial
  Reform.

  Prior to 1989, there were no special rules governing the Supreme Court vistas, visits to federal judicial
  circuits to inspect the operation of the courts, detect any irregular behavior, and address complaints that
  attorneys or judicial staff might have. The 1995 Organic Law of the Federal Judiciary created a monitoring
  system that is much more developed. It established an auxiliary agency of the Council of the Federal
  Judiciary, the Visitaduria Judicial (Article 98 ff.). The Law also defined rules on the procedures that must
  accompany avisita.

  The Organic Law alsocontainsthe specific disciplinary measures which canbe applied tojudges andjudicial
  officials (Articles 129 ff.). According to the Council of the Federal Judiciary's reports, disciplinary measures
  seemto be more frequently applied, includingthe dismissal and non-ratification of judges.22But in its report
  on Mexico in 2001, a UNagency estimated that corruption affected between 50 and 70 percent of federal
  judges, adding that the Council of the FederalJudiciary hadnever punishedafederaljudge for corruption.


0  Accountability

  Significant progress has been made in recent years improving the accountability and transparency of the
  courts. In April 2002, the Congress passed the Federal Law on Transparency and Access to Public
  Governmental Information, under                          all obligated subjects -including the Federal Judiciary- have to
  makepublicly available all information relating to their internal0perations.2~




  Several developments in the Mexicanjudiciary in recent years concern its efficiency. The most important
  strategy employed by both the federal and the state judiciaries to cope with growing caseloads and the
  problem of backlog hasbeenthe establishmentof new courts.

  Despite significant growth in the number of courts, however, the average number of cases per court i s not
  very different from what it was in 1970. Cases have also become more numerous and complex. The
  increasingcomplexity of administrative tasks has interfered with the adjudicative activities of the high courts,
  which had traditionally been charged with the administration of the court system. This was especially true of
  the FederalJudiciary, where day-to-day administration was conducted by the president of the Court with the
  support of only two justices The establishment of judicial councils for the Federal Judiciary, the Federal
  District and 14 states offered a separationbetweenadjudicative functions and administrative tasks. InMexico,
  as in many other countries, administrative powers have been wrestled away from the Supreme Court, not the
  Ministry of Justice. As a result, this dynamic fosters the possibility of internal conflict betweenbothjudicial


 %Jntil 1994,an informaljudicial career existedat the FederalJudiciary: young recruits wouldascendthe internalhierarchy ofjudicial
 postsup to the position of clerk ("secretario") at the SupremeCourt. From there they couldbe appointedas district judge and,
 occasionally, circuit judge by the Court, at the proposal of one of the justices. For an excellent description of the merits and flaws of
 this systemsee Cossio (1996).At the state level a similar system was inuse, although stability was much more precarious.
 22 Between 1995 and 1998,the Council decided not to ratify 9 district and 2 circuit judges; only 2 district judges were dismissed from
 their posts. According to article 97 of the Mexican Constitution, district and circuit judges are appointed for a term of six years, at the
 endof which, if they are ratifiedor promoted to higher office, they can only be removed from office through impeachment.
   InAugust 2002, three senators from different parties submittedto the Congress a billfor the amendment of this Law. It would
 require the Federal Judiciary to publish all its decisions.
                                                                 73

 bodies. The administrative role of the Council is contr~versial?~ for the most part trial judges recognize
                                                                              but
 that their needs andproblemsreceivemuch more attention thanthey didpreviously.

  Equitable Access

 A lack of access to the courts is a reality for the majority of the population-most                   notably marginalized
 groups such as women, indigenous groups, and the poor-who                     have had to turn instead to quasi-judicial
 institutions such as the National Ombudsmanfor Human Rights. Despite the growth in the number of courts,
 there is no evidencethat a large sector of the populationhas increasedits accessto the court system.

 Lawyers

 Incontrast with public defenders' offices located in the states, federal public defendersare relatively well
 paid and assigned manageable workloads. In 1997 these, offices were transformed into an agency with
 technical autonomy-the         Federal Institute of Public Defenders (Instituto Federal de Defensorlu Pzibiica)-
 permitting the defense of defendants during the criminal investigation phase, and providing legal advice in
 other non-criminal areas of federal law. However, the Institute can only manage a very small portion of the
 actual demand.

 Judges

 With respect to the selection and appointment ofjudges, the Council of the Federal Judiciary has introduced
 some changes into the judicial selection and appointment process. It determined that the admission
 examination for training programs i s equivalent to the first stage of the examination for appointment,
 provided a candidate successfully completes all courses andtrainingpractices.25

 A very highturnover rate that has resultedfrom the acceleratedgrowth of the Federal Judiciary. At the end
 of 1995 there were 472 federal judgeships (176 district judges and 296 circuit judges). At the end of 2001,
 this numberhadgrown to 764 (252 district judges and512 circuitjudges), an increaseof 61.6 percent.During
 the same period, however, a total of 412 districtjudges (63.5 percent of their total number at the end of 2001)
 and320 circuitjudges (62.5 percentof their total number at the end of the same year) were selected, either by
 examination or by direct appointment, on the grounds of the urgent need to appoint new judges. This has
 weakened the application of the requirements to become a judge, and decreased the competency levels of
 candidates.

 The new system for the selection and appointment of judges has a visible positive effect-it                          makes the
 judiciary more open, merit-oriented, independent and accountable. At the same time, it i s less prone to
 clientelism, cronyism and political manipulation. However, it is doubtful that the training programs
 implemented as arequirementfor appointmentcan by themselvessuccessfully foster a new mentality among
 judges and a deeper reflection on the role of adjudication insociety.

Although the FederalJudiciary is the most influentialjudicial institution in Mexico, it i s only one among many
court systems. The 31 states and the Federal District each have their own judiciaries, which deal with the
majority (about 80 percent) of the total cases nationwide. Historically, reform efforts have neglected to focus
on local judiciaries to an even greater extent than the federal courts. And the greatest challenge to federal
judicial reform may be state judicial reform. The federal and the state judiciaries are inextricably linked for
historical reasons, so reformof either the former or the latter alone i s insufficient.

111.        Judicial Reforminthe States andFederalDistrict


24Gonzfilez Placencia(2002) reportsthat opinions were evenly divided among court clerks when asked about the role of the Councilof
the FederalJudiciary.
"See,example,"Acuerdogeneral24/2Ol,quefijalasbasesparaeldtcimoconcursointemodeoposicidnparaladesignacidnde
magistradosde circuito", and "Acuerdo general25/2001, que fija las basesparael quinto concurso intemo de oposicidnpara la
designacidndejueces de distrito", bothof April 25,2001, at http://www.cjf.gob.mx.
                                                            74

       The reformprocess at the state level began in 1995 and is still unfolding, although the depth, manner and pace
       of reformvaries greatly from state to state. The most important changes at the state level are:


        0 &dependence. Many states are experimenting with differentprocesses aimedat ensuringthat the selection
        and appointment process of state appealsjudges is professionally oriented. Inmost states, traininginstitutes
        havebeenestablishedandexaminationsare routinely applied to the selectionandappointmentprocessof
        lowerjudges andotherjudicial officials. Statejudicial budgetshave grown greatly inthe last five years as
        judiciaries have gainedfinancial independence.


        0 Accountability. Many states have attemptedto make monitoringanddisciplinary proceduresmore reliable
        andeffective.


        0 mciency. About halfof the Mexicanstates have establishedaCouncil of the Judiciary, which has allowed
        them to effect geater separationbetweenjudicial andadministrative tasks, increasingefficiency and
        enhancinggrowth.

          EquitableAccess. Access tojustice has beenincreasedprimarily through the establishmentof new courts.

         IV.      Relationship betweenthe FederalJudiciary andthe State Judiciaries

        Under the 1824FederalConstitution, cases filed in localcourts were required to be resolvedentirely by those
        courts-there     was no appeal of state decisions before the federal courts. This changedin the latter part of the
        19th century through the amparo suit, which allows the review of state judicial decisions by the federal
        courts. The amparo brought about a defacto unification of the federal and state judiciaries. As noted, it has
        developed into a highly complex system for the review of all types of decisions by public authorities
        (including courts), both local and federal.

        Most changes inthe composition andjurisdiction of the SupremeCourt duringthe 20th century were aimed at
        reducing the growing caseload and decreasing the backlog within the Court, caused by the large number of
        cases brought under the amparo provision.26Justices were successively added to the Supreme Court, and new
        circuit courts were establishedto take over some of the Court's business.

        As discussed above, state judiciaries complain that interpretations by federal courts in amparo suits are
        inconsistent, making the granting or denial of an amparo rather ad hoc. Moreover, many state judges think
        that the quality of federal decisions has declined, and that statejudicial decisions are thus often superior, and
        state judiciaries are displaying a new assertiveness and are trying to claim back their judicial autonomy.
        Furthermore, state courts must now use their scare time and money to hear commercial cases, which belong
        to the federal jurisdiction, because federal courts are too busy with amparo cases. Members of the Federal
        Judiciary complain that they are forced to do thejob of statejudiciaries becausethey must review many local
        judicial decisions.

         V.       IncreasingProfessionalism of Lawyers

        In Mexico, legal education has stagnated and remains grounded in legal-theoretical models of the 19th
        century. And, beginning in the late 1960s, enrollment in public law schools began to increase dramatically,
        resulting in a markeddecline inthe quality of instruction. There is no equivalent to a bar examination, so that
        a university degree (and in certain cases, not even that) is requiredfor someone to be licensed as a lawyer.
        Law schools enjoy a large degree of autonomy to decide the type and quality of education they provide.
        Programsare therefore neededto help modernize andstandardize legal education.

         VI.      Some Primary Reflections on the Future of Judicial ReforminMexico


26 Taylor(1997:145 ff,) andFix-Fierro (1998).
                                                            75

Past efforts at judicial reform in Mexico have neitherbeen based on empirical analysis, nor benefited from a
systematic or holistic participatory approach. They have lacked the direction that can only be provided by an
informed group of reform strategists and stakeholders, and such individuals were notably absent from past
reform efforts. Nevertheless, the 1994 reforms gave impetus to a new reform process. Judicial reform in
Mexico appears to have been respondingto social demands and expectations, no longer dictated solely by the
interestsof political and legal elites. Furtherreforms, however, would have a greater impact if they were built
upon a solid foundation of consultation, research and collaboration between key stakeholders, in order to
maximize the effectivenessand sustainability of future reformmeasures.

Unfortunately, in the absence of such a sustained reformprocess, it appears that legal andjudicial reform in
Mexico will follow a less formal process and will instead manifest itself in the redefinition of the role of
courts in society, its nature and extent determined largely by societal pressures. But there is another reason as
well-political   and institutional trends are towards greater local autonomy, and thejudiciary will not be left
untouchedby this development.

A well-functioning democracy depends upon an effective judicial system. Society expects the courts to be
"guardians of democratic promises", but according to opinion polls, citizen trust and confidence in the
judicial system remains low. Transparency is essential to increasing the legitimacy of courts and building
citizen confidence in those courts. The current political environment in Mexico, with an increasingly
independent judiciary and a multi-party government, has the potential to improve judicial performance. If
judicial modernization, transparency and accountability can be achieved, judicial reform has a chance to
flourish.




                                                    76

    Annex 11:ParticipatoryApproach and Mappingof ModernizationPlans

  MEXICO: StateJudicial ModernizationSupportingAccessto Justice Project


Introduction:

Adopting a strategic perspective is essential for judicial modernization. The sustainability of
judicial modernization efforts depends on continuous leadership and commitment, the
effectivenessof humanresources, adequacy of financial resources, relevanceof planning, support
from stakeholders,and attainmentof clear results-on-the-groundthat generate benefits.

Mexican state judiciaries vary enormously in their attributes such as capacity, size, budget,
structure, social context, and performance. This diversity of needs requires flexibility in approach
to cater for implementation complexities. The modernization needs also vary from state to state.
And experienceexistsinmany states that needsto be sharedandleveragedfor optimalchange.

In view of the above factors and risks, a "participatory approach" is proposed for advancing
judicial modernization (See Box 11).Under this framework, flexible "building blocks" (thematic
components of the Project) and working guidelines or eligibility criteria (see ahead), prepared on
the basis of extensive consultations in states and external advisory group meeting and studies,
would guide the design and implementation of state judicial modernization plans (subprojects).
There i s also a key focus on learningandknowledge-sharing during semi-annual monitoringand
evaluation reviews.

This Annex provides the following outline of the participatory approach:

 >  Part A. describes the consultative "reflection and strategic planning" process adopted so far
with states for the preparationof statejudicial modernization plans (subprojects).
 >  Part B. describes the technical eligibility criteria (or working guidelines) for assessing the
viability of judicial modernization building blocks supported under individual state plans, and
appliesthemby mappingsome state modernization plans.

                                             Box 13.1




                                               77

PartA. Reflection and Strategic PlanningWorkshops for Internal andExternal
Stakeholder Consultations

As noted elsewhere, modernization plans have so far been drafted by eleven states
(Aguascalientes, Baja California, Chihuahua, Colima, Guanajuato, Nayarit, Oaxaca, Quintana
Roo, Puebla, Sonora, and Estado de Mexico) and are in different stages of internal
approvaVpublication. Copies of these plans are available inProject files.

All of the involvedstates conductedhighly participatory strategic planning workshops, combined
with the results of studies, which served as the inputsfor the modernization plans.The workshops
were aimed at generally sensitizing the participantsto modernization conceptsand processes,
familiarizing them with the "good practices'' used for this purpose, and examining ways of
bringing about desired changes.

Other workshop inputs derived from consultation with users groups such as justice sector
officials, NGOs, legal practitioners andcivil society entities.

Design of Judges and Court Administrator Workshops (and follow-on work sessions). The
workshops involved a highly representative, cross functional group. It typically included about
10-25 percent of each state's sitting judges and court administrators from different functional
areas, along with support staff. A contributing component was the validation and approval of the
modernization plan by the full Plenary Chamber of each state judicial branch and/or judicial
council.

The workshops were runthrough brainstormingsessions and exercises. These concentratedon the
basic principles of contemporary strategic and tactical planning models, and their adaptation (as
much as possible) tojudicial institutions and practices. The participants were briefedon important
elements of modern organizational models: flexibility, innovation, open information flow,
proactive supervision and continuous improvement. In the discussion, these characteristics were
underlined as a means of attaining more accessible, competent and credible organizational
functioning, with the potential of obtaining significant results.

Duringthe sessions, the participants worked towards achievingthe following goals:


0     Diagnosethe current situation of the Judicial Branch, analyzing its structure and organization,
human resources, processes and technology;
e     Define a vision of the desired future with selected, prioritized objectives
0     Design anddevelop a strategic planfor accomplishing the objectives;
0     Discusshow to implement the plan and supervisethis process;
e     Discuss how to periodically gauge progress and results for the purposes of continued
improvement.

The aforementionedgoals were addressedinthe following ways:

(i)Afirst targetwasthediagnosisofthecurrentsituationofthe iudiciarv, thebranch's prospects
and its objectives. There was an analysis of its present internal and external conditions.
Following a "360+ type" evaluation, opinions were sought from the various actors involvedinthe
provision and reception of justice administration services. The questionnaire used was aimed at
determining the motivations of employees; their client relationship strategies and activities, the



                                                78

attitudes of users towards the judiciary; and the extent of enhanced efficiency and effectiveness
that should be gained through improvement efforts. Subsequently, a brainstorming session
discussed the strengths, weaknesses, timeliness of services, and existing constraintshisks in the
states' judicial branch. This analysis served to identify some impedimentsto modernization.

Another analysis concernedthe efficiency of the pertinent organizations, which was carried out
through assessment of the problems and challenges facing the Judicial Branch. Workshop
participants (grouped by specialties) discussed problems in the political-judicial, administrative,
jurisdictional, client and inter-institutional relations areas.

Indiscussing external factors that affect the Judicial Branch, the working groups analyzed socio-
economic forces and technological changes. They considered new socio-economic conflicts,
changes in lifestyles, educationallevels and citizen participation. The group discussed the extent
to which judicial processes now use technological innovations, and how successful were the
changes that reflected their advancements.

Through additional interdisciplinary discussions, the participants addressed definitions of their
institutional missions and visions. In this segment, there was a "sensitization exercise" designed
to reduce resistance to change. This sought to help participants to visualize the desired future of
their organization. For this portion, the experience of other countries and Mexican states (e.g.
Brazil, Venezuela, Guatemala, Tabasco, Nuevo Lebn, Guanajuato, Quintana Roo, Chihuahua)
was discussed.

Through this initial part of the workshop, the groups identified the "building blocks" of the
Judicial Branch at local levels. The core concepts included the provision of open access to
justice, transparency, efficiency, development of human resources, and functional and
institutional enhancement. There was discussion of the strategies needed to put in place the
intended goals. These included the creation of legislative, procedural and institutional policies;
organizational improvements; technology updates in information and communications;
infrastructure adaptations; human resources development; public education and dissemination
programs; knowledge exchange; and stakeholder involvement.

(ii)The secondworkshoptotks dealtwithstrategicdanning itself. Theparticipants addressed
how to define and make operational the strategies needed for achieving institutional
modernization. To this end, the participants discussed the uses of five tools: [a code of ethics,
operational pyramid, implementation web, clearinghouses andthe Gantt chart.]

o A Code of Ethics was stressed as an essential element for progressive and sustainable
modifications of values, attitudes, and work patterns. ("Ethics" were defined as the combination
of fundamental, perennial or universal values, plus the attitudes and behaviors routinely assumed
towards the world, institutions, individuals and things.) The participants in the discussions
identified four pertinent actions. To address the first, they answered a questionnaire concerning
individual and group value hierarchies (based on the Theory of Values of EdwardSpranger). This
related to personal interests, personal motivations, favorite pastimes, entertainment, professional
goals, self-improvement, educational interests, desired image, role in the company and personal
goals. The second action concernedthe "the ideal code of ethics" It dealt with the main values -
natural, theoretical, political, economic, social and aesthetic. The third piece concernedthe gaps
between real and ideal behavior codes, which touched on individual behavior changes and the
institutional re-alignment toward more ideal behaviors. The fourth involved the definition of
performance controls and indicators usablefor facilitating compliance with suchCodes.



                                                  79

o An Operational Pyramid was discussedas aconceptualstructurefor the practical application
of institutional objectives. It underlines the difference betweenthe design of good intentions and
their application in practice. The pyramid consisted of 5 functional parts: objective, strategy,
actions, expected results, and indicators to measure performance. Participants conducted an
exercise in which they hadto set realistic goals andfollow through with their realization.
o An Implementation Web is a comprehensive visualization of the modernization process
supported simultaneously by all areas in the institution. Its purpose i s to see that the actions
proposedin the operationalpyramids are coordinatedin a comprehensive manner.
o The idea of Clearinghouses was defined as a means of coordinating efforts for obtaining
mutual commitments on the execution of the actions proposed in strategic plans. Agreements
would be defined in writing, and participants would agree and commit themselves to their
fulfillment.
o For monitoring all the processes, the Gantt chart covers in a general summary table the
pyramids integrated with their programming, budgeting, andcontrol indicators.

(iii)Theremainingsegmentofthe workshopdealtwith the implementation, supervision and
periodic review of the modernization plan. During the discussion, it was agreed that judicial
modernization i s a learning process that has to be carried out systematically, and that provisions
needto be installed for the timely correction of gaps or errors.

These workshops were followed (and in some cases preceded) data gathering and organizational
analysis sessions and validation exercises spread over several days. The following table outlines
some of the points discussed at the judges and court administrator workshops.

                                       Reflection andPlanning:




           what should                    L
                             { Define tie desiredfuture
             we do?               I S S I O d vision)
                                  . .
                                    Select and priorize the Objectives
                                              To achieve the vision
                                          4                               Behavior

                                      Designthe strategic plan to
             do it?             achieve the objectives of the vision
                                          +                              I *Ganttchart
                                    Develop the strategic plan to
                                           achieve the objectives




           How are we                                                   Improvement Proceis
             doingit?




                                                     80

Part B. Technical criteria or                 Working Guidelines and their Application in Mapping
(evaluating) ModernizationPlansfrom Different States

As noted elsewhere, the technical criteria to be used by BANOBAS in the selection of States to
participate in the Project include that the Judicial Modernization Plan be consistent with the Project
objectives' and be viable in terms of having an integrated institutional perspective, promoting a
culture of service; provide an efficient distribution and management of resources, and be developed
through a participatory process including consultation with relevant stakeholders. Additionally, the
Plan shouldbe viable without the need for legislative reform.

     0    IntegralPerspective: Judicial Modernization Plans should be the product of an organizational
          analysis and should set general and specific objectives and related strategies, measures, and
          activities, derived from such analysis.

     0    Promotion of a culture of service: The Judicial Modemization Project should state how the
         judicial branch proposes to interact with its users (to serve society), andinform them about its
          operations. How does the Judiciary plan to analyze the characteristics of its users in order to
          effectively serve them. How does the Judicial Modernization Plan link its modernization plan
          to the needs and roles of other parties for a better administration of justice (e.g., prosecutors,
          public defenders, etc.); identify vulnerable users and provide services in accordance with
          their needs.


     0    Efficient distribution and management of resources for the implementation of the Judicial
          Modernization Plan: How will the resources requested be used to meet the needs so as to
          meet the tests of efficacy (the relationship betweenthe quality of services provided, and their
          ultimate benefit for users); efficiency (the relationship between results obtained and their
          costs); and service quality (the relationship betweenresults obtained and proper standards of
          judicial services).

     0    Viability without constitutional or legislative reform, including only such modernization
          activities (and corresponding resources) that do not require constitutional or legislative
          reformandcan be implementedunder current legislative framework. Studies andreviews that
          would facilitate future reforms may be considered.

These working guidelines have multiplepurposes. One is to facilitate consultations with internal and
external stakeholders.A secondi s to help direct the development of the modernization plans andtheir
evaluation by BANOBAS to make go / no-go decisions. A closely related aim is to help provide a
basis for future learning within the Project (with an eye to the diverse applications of the
modernization buildingblocks scheme among the different states). Also, they are intendedto helpthe
participating states (as well perhapsas others) define, establishand implement investment priorities.




* Plus financial criteria whereby participating states should indicate: (a) their commitment and capacity to assume Credit
obligations, pursuant to the provisions of organic laws (Nomtatividud);and (b) their commitment to provide, in a timely
manner and as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Subproject, including the
counterpart funds requiredto ensure the timely implementation of the Judicial Modemization Plan.


                                                             81

Application of technical criteria (working guidelines) to eleven state modernization plans.

The table at the end of the Annex compares the statejudicial modernization plans of Aguascalientes,
Baja California, Chihuahua, Colima, Estado de MCxico, Nayarit, Guanajuato, Oaxaca, Puebla,
Quintana Roo, and Sonora against the four technical criteria described above. Some subjects of
special interest for individual states are shown inthe right hand column.

The primary analysis shows the following:

Integral Perspective: Generally plans include an overall diagnosis of institutional problems, reviews
of administrative andjudicial structures, of the supply and demandfor judicial services, as well as an
evaluation of organizational strengths/weaknesses, opportunities and issues. These were based on
analyses of policies, institutional relationships, users, organization and structural matters, human
resources, and functioning, at state and federal levels.

A comparison of the issues and problems confronting the participating local judiciaries with the
envisaged results of the modernization plans showed that: the problems identified are generally
targeted for specific change and improvement activities, under a global strategy and comprehensive
action plans; the modernization plans clearly state the vision and mission, general and specific
objectives, strategies and activities; and the objectives are typically oriented towards increasing
productivity, improving and facilitating access to justice, improving inter-institutional relations, and
developing human resources. The Puebla and Guanajuato Plans, in particular, specified improving
the independence of judges, while the Quintana Roo Plan focuses on strengthening                 public
confidence.

As regards the modernization plan components (building blocks), notable targeting was placed on
institutional strengthening, culture and knowledge, efficiency and efficacy, and access to justice.
Emphasis in strategies were given to institutional capacity building, ADR mechanisms, human
competency and development, and strengtheningadministrative management. The Guanajuato Plan
alone referred       to strengthening judicial ethics. The Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, and Sonora
Modernization plans also underscored actions oriented towards transparency. Oaxaca' s plan
proposes the creation of institutional control and supervision mechanismsas well as the evaluation of
civil society's perceptionsof thejudicial function.

The plans illustrate the unique context of each state judiciary. There were, for example, several
approaches proposedfor the goal of improving the social condition of women, the incorporation of a
gender perspective in the courts' norms for their decisions, reforms to guarantee equitable, non-
discriminatory accesstojustice for women's needs.

The plans set forth the establishment of ADR programs to provide alternatives to the formal
administration of justice. Given Mexico's multicultural diversity, it would be appropriate for each
state to establish norms for such "informal" dispute resolution          systems which reflect their
populations. Already, there are several states' laws which confer legitimacy on existing practices of
internaljustice amongindigenous communities, based on ancestraltraditions.

Promotion of a culture of service: All plans focus on strengthening thejudiciary's relationship with
society, improving access to and the quality of services, but the mode and mechanisms vary. The
Oaxaca Plan, for example, includes a strategy for institutional strengthening to better serve the
indigenous population. An emphasis on access and quality are included in Guanajuato's plan.
Alternatively, the plans of Colima and Sonora address the quality of services through measures


                                                    82

regardingjudicial staff upgrading by strengtheningthejudicial career, the creation of an incentive and
merit recognition system, and training programs. Plans from the Quintana Roo, Puebla, and State of
Mexico judiciaries are oriented towards improving services and user satisfaction. Chihuahua's Plan
focuses on strengthening relations, in particular with the executivebranch.

Mobilizationfor plan implementation and Costs: Typically, the plans propose a three-staged
approach: (a) preparation or creation of the proper institutional environment (including inter-branch
consultation to secure financial resources); (b) the development of activities (including piloting) for
organizational and technological change; and (c) sustaining the modemizatiodreform activities. For
example, the Oaxaca Plan proposes three stages over 6 years, while the Colima Plan contemplates
three time periods of 3 years. The time horizon and resource constraints differ due to the different
level of complexity of activities, size of thejudiciary, prioritization, sequence, election cycle of state
institutions, etc.

Plan costs range between about US$3 million and US$26 million. Many states have detailed cost
breakdown and funding scenarios. There was no cost estimate in the Chihuahua state Plan. The
Estado de Mexico Plan required several working sessions given the size of the state and other
complexities. Most of the plans have defined intermediate and final results to be achieved,
management indicators, and time of execution. But most of the indicators are input indicators except
for Estado de Mexico, Oaxaca and Colima, which have a good mix of quantitative and qualitative
indicators to measure impact.

Legislative Framework (viability): The plans of Colima, Oaxaca, Aguascalientes, Mexico State,
Chihuahuaproposed studies and some activities related to legislative reforms in order to accomplish
the defined strategies and objectives. Meanwhile,        the Puebla judiciary has recently approved
legislative reforms, and therefore proposes activities that would implement the new organic law of the
judiciary. Similarly, Guanajuato and Colima have a new law on ADR, as does Quintana Roo on
indigenousjustice and ADR.

OverallCommentsonMapping.

All plans have been developed through stakeholder consultations. The above indicates that the
participatory process of consultation and plan development has good strategic elements and may
serve as the useful basis during implementation of the Project in a few participating states. It also
indicates that the building block working guidelines adopted in the reflection and strategic planning
process (supported by the Bank during project preparation in collaboration with NCSC, SHCP and
BANOBRAS) may serve as useful examples moving forward. It should generally help states conduct
their own planning and modernization initiatives. It also indicates their serviceability for
BANOBRAS to make decisions on funding of the individual modernization plan proposals
(subprojects).

The participatory approach and its elements (consultation workshops, data analysis sessions,
technical working guidelines, periodic learning and knowledge sharing) appear to be flexible to meet
a wide variety of judicial and social contexts, help check strategic alignment of plan elements, and
permit analysis duringthe semi-annual monitoring and evaluation of the Project and subprojects and
their activities.

It should be noted that these working guidelines or criteria are not intended for rigid, uniform
application. Instead,they are couched, and would be implemented in line with the Project's "learning
by doing" policy. This flexibility should assist BANOBRAS to progressively refine its norms and
practices in this new area of lending operations.


                                                    83

LI
0

._
e,

     I     I




I     I     I


5
e,   R

i
0 ac 8
    'E

Annex 12: Terms of Reference NationalCommissionof State Courts Strengthening

  MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupporting Access to Justice Project


   TITLEOF THEASSIGNMENT
   Strengthening of the National Commission of Superior Courts of Justice, as a key element of
   the proposedProjectto facilitate partnershipsandpromotion of good practicesand strategies.

   REQUESTINGINSTITUTION
   National Commission of Superior Courts of Justice of the UnitedMexican States, A.C.

   OBJECTIVE
   Strengthenthe structure and operation of the NationalCommission of State Courts through the
   establishment of mechanisms that facilitate carrying out effectively the coordination of
   actions, decision-making, strategic planning, systematization of processes, and the
   rationalization of their resources. This will result ingreater managerialcapacity and efficiency
   and, thus, respondas the national instances incoordinating andpromoting the improvement of
   the institutional management of the local judicial branches. This would also promote donor
   collaboration andcitizen outreach.

   RATIONALE
   Mexico i s seeking to improve its social, economic, and political development through
   substantive transformations of its public institutions to increase its competitiveness and
   efficiency, develop its humancapital, and increaseboththe social accountability of its officials
   and the transparencyintheir management.

   In this regard, judicial institutions, specifically those at the local level, comprise a very
   important sector of Mexican public institutions and can play an important role in the
   achievement of overall institutional efficiency, both because of their role in the protection of
   social rights and because of their traditional lag in reform and modernization projects. To this
   end, and with Federalparticipation, the World Bank was asked to provide assistance in laying
   the foundations to develop institutional capabilities in the modernization of local judicial
   institutions, basedon the development of policies that take advantage of the sharedknowledge
   of all judicial institutions, with the expectation of generating a future modernization and
   improvement effort.

   Knowledge exchange, both with and among states (including contacts with federal
   institutions), and the promotion of positive experiences through the National Commission of
   State Courts, will make it possible to emphasize the leadership in the sector and reduce
   resistance to change.

   In this regard, the National Commission of State Courts is the body that must act as the
   national coordination and promotion unit of the overall judicial modernization process,
   pursuant to the provisions within its own regulatory framework, which call for its integration
   andpurpose:

    1. Compatibility of the objectives of the Commission provided for in Article 4 of the Statute
   and the objectives of the judicial modernization project. Among the main objectives of the
   Commission are the following: to consolidate and strengthen the administration of justice in
   the general jurisdiction based on the principles of independence, authority, self-regulation,


                                                90

judicial career, legal safety, job stability, and accountability, as established in the Political
Constitution of the UnitedMexican States; to update and modernize the organs, instruments,
procedures, and systems of the administration of justice in the general jurisdiction, so that
justice is carried out promptly, completely and impartially and with absolute respect for human
rights; and to promote the enhancement of laws that affect the administration of justice in the
generaljurisdiction, facilitating their permanentreview for their corresponding adaptation and
updating, among others. In consonance with the objectives of the Commission, the
fundamental purpose of the Project is to improve the institutional actions of the Tribunals and
Courts. This objective will be carried out through a strategy based on active learning on past
experiences and by means of strengthening the actions included in large thematic blocks of
judicial modernization that will make it possible to proceedwithout awaiting legal reforms, as
well as facilitate dialogue and support, in the long run, about a local and national policy of
judicial modernization.

Specifically, the Project intends to: assist in strengthening the development of judicial and
institutional policies; achieve efficiency and efficacy of jurisdictional and administrative
structures; improve judicial transparency and citizen participation; strengthen the access to
justice of the judicial system.

 2. Membership in the National Commission of all the Magistrados Presidents of the Superior
Courts of Justice to represent each local Judicial Branch; participation i s voluntary and only
 those Tribunals that so desire it participate inthe Commission.

 3. The structure and operation of the National Commission consists of a President, four Vice
 Presidents, a Secretary, four Members, a Treasurer, and a Technical Secretary. It also has a
 Publishing Board and specialized organs as appointedby the Board with the approval of the
 Assembly. This correspondswith the division of the Mexican Republic inrelationto the States
 and their Tribunals into four areas and each respective area has a Vice-president and one
 Member. The areas are as follows: the Northern Area, (comprising the States of Baja
 California, Baja California Sur, Coahuila, Chihuahua, Durango, Nayarit, Sinaloa and Sonora),
 the lowlands area (comprising the States of Aguascalientes, Colima, Guanajuato, Jalisco,
 Nuevo L e h , San Luis Potosi, Tamaulipas and Zacatecas; the central area (comprising the
 States of Hidalgo, Mexico, Michoach, Morelos, hebla, Querdtaro, Tlaxcala, and the Federal
 District) and the southern area (comprising the States of Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero,
 Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, Tabasco, Veracruz and Yucath).

 4. Knowledge of the reality and current situation of each local judicial branch on the part of
 the National Commission, as a result of the periodic evaluation of the achievements and the
 sharing of experiences promoting the performance of the jurisdictional and administrative
 functions of the same.

 The aforementioned objectives make it possible to have the necessary conditions for having
 the national instance required in the National Commission of State Courts for the promotion
 of the judicial modernization project to be cofinanced by the World Bank with BANOBRAS,
 andguaranteedby the UnitedMexican States.

 TECHNICALACTIONS
 Inorder for the NationalCommission of State Courts to function as a technical partneragency
 (with BANOBRAS and the Bank) f the modernization project of the local judicial branches,
 three things are required to ensure its coherence and technical consistency: first, the
 development of national strategic guidelines; second, the optimization and rationalization of


                                               91

   resourcesthrough the sharingof experiencesandthe application of economiesof scale criteria;
   and third, the institutional convergence with state and Federal government agencies and
   society ingeneral.

   I.Strengthening the development of strategic guidelines and national coordination
   actions, through the following:

-   Carry out qualitative and quantitative studies on various fundamental subjects to improve the
administration of justice, such as: the legal framework and the role of judges; the position of
judges in society and the perception of the administration of justice system in the community;
access to justice for vulnerable social groups; the cost of justice in the country; the impact of
judicial decisions on society; access to information; current operation of jurisdictional processes;
integrity of the judicial systems; judicial training; alternative conflict resolution; the addition of
technology and the physical adaptation of the tribunals and courts; budgetary autonomy and
alternate financing means; development of human capital and salary updating; judicial
federalism; and harmony of competencies,amongothers.

   -     Design andimplement a monitoringand evaluation systemof innovations andfunctional
   andoperationaltransformationsof the modernization processesinthe localjudicial branches.

-   Design and implement a database o f public and private legal research institutions; experts,
specialists, and national and international advisers on reform and judicial modernization issues;
and national and international consultant firms specializing in institutionbuilding, and implement
integrated administrative andjurisdictional management information systems.

-   Promote semi-annual meetings to share information on the progress and validation of
improvement proposals of judicial management with judicial officials from all the localjudicial
branches.

-   Design and implement an administrative and logistical support system for the operationof the
NationalCommission of State Courts

-   Provide computerandcommunication equipment to the National Commission of State Courts

-   Provide office materials, equipment, andfurniture.

   11. Improvement of knowledge exchange activities (Good Practices) and national and
   international experiences, through the following actions:

 -   Systematizeandpublishthe best practicesof each localjudicial branch.

 -  Provide technical assistance to the local judicial branches on the preparation of the Judicial
    Modernization Planswith the participation of groups of advisers.

 -   Designandimplement an interandintra-stateexchangeprogramthrough the establishmentof
     interactive informationchannels such as the WorldBank program known as GlobalDistance
     LeamingNetwork and its partner the "Development Gateway Foundation".

 -   Designand implement adistance education program of basic courses for the training of
    judicial staff with the participation of groups of advisers.



                                                92

    -    Promote technical meetings(workshopsand seminars) with specialist staff on subjectsrelated
    to judicial modemization and with the participation of national and international groups of
    advisers and experts.

    -    Coordinate actions to work on common issues related to local judicial branches at the
    corporate level, suchas strategicplanning, alternative means of conflict resolution, code of ethics,
    etc., to maximize economic and resource efficiency intheir modernization plans.

    -    Promote technical missions to observe experiences in localjudicial branches and injudicial
    branchesin other countries.

    -    Promote the participation of judicial officials from the different local judicial branches in
    national and international events relatedto reform andjudicial modernization issues.

       111. Establishment of convergence mechanisms with other State and federal government
       agencies, as well as with society ingeneral, through the following actions:

    - Design and implement a mass communication program via various media, including
    community actions (Outreach Programs) with other actors related to the localjudicial branchesto
    disseminate the progress made in judicial modemization at the national level and thus motivate
    and encourage local and national leaders, usingagreements and competencies programs with the
    participation of the group of advisers.

    -    Design and implement a coordination and cooperation program with social organizations,
    users, and other public and private institutions in the organization of working and consultation
    meetings, with a view to evaluating and validating common strategiesof thejudicial branches, the
    solutions designed, the results obtained, andthe impact of the implementation.

PROPOSALFORFINANCIAL CAPACITY BUILDING
The design of a financial mechanismthat facilitates the transfer of federal funds (subsidy) directly to
the National Commission of State Courts, so that it carries out this strengthening program with the
necessary evaluation stages on project administration, expenditures, and programming of the
resources.

One such mechanismcouldbe the creation of a public trust fund, where the federal institution would
act as trustee as provided for in the Federal Law of Government Institutions, and the fiscal agent
designatedas the trust fund institution for overseeingthe application of the resources in the programs
of the National Commission of State Courts, in accordance with applicable legislation, and with the
accountingaudit mechanisms required for transparency and correct administration of funds consistent
with establishedstandards.




                                                   93

                                  Annex 13: External Advisory Group

      MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupporting Access to Justice Project


External Advisory Group Meeting
The first External Advisory Group meeting took place in Mexico City on June 5, 2003. The meeting
was organized by Task TeamLeader so that an external evaluating team could provide guidance and
validation of the Project with the participation of Bank representatives.

The following membersandguest observers were present:

Group Members
Group members were invited on the basis of their expertise in the area and their familiarity with the
country's different regions. It i s worth notingthat experts were invited on a personal basis and not as
representativesof their institutions. Nevertheless, it is expected that the group will continue to grow
with the inclusionof expertsfrom different disciplines and regions of the country and elsewhere.

The meetingtook place at the Bank's Mexico Office with the following participants:

Ana MariaAlvarado                  InstitutoTecnol6gico de Estudios Superiores Monterrey, Monterrey
CeciliaAzar                        Proyecto de Mediaci6n de la American BarAssociation
JosC Antonio Caballero             Institutode InvestigacionesJuridicas, UNAM
JosC LuisCaballero                 Universidad Iberoamericana, SantaFC
Hugo A. Concha                     Institutode InvestigacionesJuridicas, UNAM
AngClicaCuCllar                    Facultad de Ciencias Politicas y Sociales, UNAM
HCctorFix Fierro                   Instituto de InvestigacionesJuridicas, UNAM
Alfonso Fragoso                     Universidad Iberoamericana, Le6n
Omar Guerrero                      Facultad de CienciasPoliticas y Sociales, UNAM
Ana Laura Magaloni                 Centro de Investigaci6ny Docencia Econ6mica
JosC Ovalle                        Instituto de InvestigacionesJuridicas, UNAM
Miguel Olguin                      Asesor del TribunalSuperior de Justicia de Tabasco
LuisPhsara                         Centro de Investigaci6n y Docencia Econ6mica
Miguel Sarre                       Instituto Tecndlogico Aut6nomo de MCxico
GuillermoZepeda                    Centro de Investigacionespara el Desarrollo, A.C.

Objective
The purposeof the meeting was to present the Project to the External Advisory Group members and
ask for their input and cooperation. The Group was asked to contribute to assessing the Project's
methodology and objectives. Members' expertise was also sought to provide useful input for
improving the projects' scope and to beginthe processof `learningby doing' in the external context.
Knowledge sharingwas also akey objective of the meeting.

Methodologyfor the meeting
In order to accomplish the meeting objectives, a participatory methodology was employed
throughout. The general discussion was guided by a PowerPoint presentation. The method included
specific presentationsby facilitators as well as individual and group working sessions. Duringthe
meeting, participants received material containing explanations of the Project as well forms for
providingtheir input when required.


                                                    94

The meeting began with a brief introduction by FernandoRojas (LCSPS). He explained the scope of
the Project and asked for the Advisory Board members' participation in reviewing the project's
viability. H e also stressed the importance of building better communication channels between
judiciaries, as well as for information generated by academic sources. The group was informed that
periodic meetings would be held to assess the Project's development, and that group members could
be invitedto participate in specific project tasks.

Followingthe introduction, Messrs. JosC Antonio Caballero and Hugo Conchaexplained the Project's
framework and methodology. This session combined a presentation of the Project with a series of
exercisesto obtain the Board members' perspectiveson statejudiciaries as well as to test the Project's
validity. Participants provided oral feedback on the Project, and in some instances were asked to
format their responsesinwriting and to discuss specific topics related to the Project in small groups.

The meeting concluded with closing remarks by TTL. These remarks covered various aspects of the
Project, and stressed the importance of the Group's input for the Project development and
implementation. Additional materialson the meeting can be consulted in Project files.

Outcomes
The meetinggenerateda number of important results. The Group expressed general satisfaction with
the Project's methodology, and no specific recommendations were made in that regard. However,
group members were particularly active in providing ideas to help identify and troubleshoot potential
problems, and in defining analytical perspectives to improve the Project's framework. The sector
problems identifiedby the Group included the following:

        C The Group generatedideas for developingjudicial policies to determine the supply of legal
        services. Some members stressedthe limitations of usingdemandas the sole indicator for
        determining the supply of legal services, and suggested ways of linkingsupply to other
        indicators.
        0 A numberof approaches were suggestedfor addressingbudget problems. On the one hand,
        discussionfocused on the importance of creating a budget proposal for state congresses as well
        justifying budget needs. Onthe other hand, participants identified internal problems in
        administering and controllingthe budget.
         C There was a generaldiscussionregarding criminal proceduresand the criminal system in
        general. Group members identifiedlegal, institutionaland operational problems.
         -
         - The public imageofjudges andthejudiciary was deemedcriticalto the process of
        strengtheningthejudiciary.
         -
         - Judicial independencewas consideredfrom an internalperspective.Inthis regard members
        stressedthe relevanceof buildingstronger institutionaltools for safeguardingthe
        independence ofjudges.
         3 Membersexpressedconcernabout the potential obstacleof overcomingentrenchedhabits
        and behaviors inside thejudiciaries, as well as the difficulty of managingchange.

        Group members also discussed and made suggestions in regard to the proposed indicators for
        the judicial modernization `buildingblocks' or thematic components. Finally, Group members
        expressed their interest in participating in future advisory group meetings and in assisting in
        advancing the Project, once all the arrangements have been finalized with BANOBRAS,
        Comisi6n Nacional de Tribunales Superiores de Justicia and other concerned agencies. Next
        meeting of the External Advisory Group would be planned as part of the first semi-annual
        monitoring andevaluation review of the Project.



                                                   95

                    Annex 14: OrganizationalChartof BANOBRAS2

     MEXICO: StateJudiciai ModernizationSupportingAccessto Justice Project




InJanuary 2004. BANOBRAShas an overall staff of about 1000andhasmovedrecently to its new offices in
SantaFe Mexico City.


                                               96

                               Annex 15: Statement of Loans and Credits

       MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationProjectSupportingAccess to Justice

                                                           29-Apr-2004
                                                                                                                          Differencebetween
                                                                                                                               expected
                                                                     Original Amount in US$Millions                           and actual
                                                                                                                           disbursementsa


Project ID       Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                 GEF    Cancel. Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
           FY




PO68290     2004 MX E-Businessfor Small Bus, Devpl. Pr.           58.40        0.00                 0.00    0.00   58.40       3.90      0.00

PO35752     2004 MX Irrigation& DrainageModernization            303.03        0.00                 0.00    0.00   303.03      0.00      0.00


PO35751     2004 MX CommunityForestryI1(PROCYMAFII)               21.30        0.00                 0.00    0.00    21.30       0.00     0.00

PO59161     2003 GEF MX-ClimateMeasuresin Transport                0.00        0.00                 5.80     0.00    5.44       2.66     0.00

PO60686     2003 MX MunicipalDev in RuralAreas                   400.00        0.00                 0.00     0.00  396.00     176.00     0.00

PO70108     2003 MX Savings8 CreditSectorStrengthening            64.60        0.00                  0.00    0.00   37.00      -0.20     0.00

PO74655     2003 MX Rural FinanceDevelopStructAdj Loan           505.06        0.00                  0.00    0.00  300.01       0.01     0.00

PO65988     2002 GEF MX Consolidat,ProtAreas (SINAP11)             0.00        0.00                16.10     0.00    6.88      11.19     0.00


PO77602     2002 MX Tax Admln InstitutionalDevelopment            52.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   51.31     20.35      0.00

PO60577     2002 MX SoutheastReg'l DevelopmentLIL                  5.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00    4.28       2.23     0.00

PO57531     2002 MX Basic Ed. APL II                             300.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   72.73     -22.27     0.00

PO66321     2001 M X 111 BASICHEALTHCAREPROJECT                  350.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00  321.17      49.77     0.00


PO65779     2001 MX FEDERALHIGHWAYMAINTENANCEPROJ                218.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   60.52      45.52     0.00

PO64887     2001 MX DISASTERMANAGEMENT(ERL)                       404.05       0.00                  0.00  200.00  181.27     232.22     0.00

PO63463     2001 METHANECAPTURE8 USEAT A LANDFILL                  0.00        0.00                  6.27    0.00    0.92       5.56     4.77

PO60908     2001 GEF MX-MESOAMERICANCORRIDOR                        0.00       0.00                 14.84    0.00   15.21       6.92     0.00

PO66674     2001 GEF MX.lndigenous&CommunityBiodiversity            0.00       0.00                  7.50    0.00    6.12       5.03     0.00


PO66938     2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                    3.07       0.00                  0.00    0.00    2.02       2.02      1.84


PO60718     2000 GEF MX ALTERNATIVEENERGY                           0.00       0.00                  6.90    0.00    4.77       8.90      0.00

PO07610     1999 MX FOVl RESTRUCTURING                            505.50       0.00                  0.00    0.00  182.40     182.40      0.00


PO44531     1998 MX KNOWLEDGE8 INNOV.                             300.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00  105.23     105.23    -11.67


PO49895     1998 MX HIGHER ED. FINANCING                          180.20       0.00                  0.00    0.00   72.76      69.06      0.00


PO07713     1996 MXWATERRESOURCESMANA                             186.50       0.00                  0.00   54.00   32.07      86.07     11.06




                                                        Total:  3856.71        0.00               59.41    254.00  2240.84    992.58      5.99




                                                              97

                                                      MEXICO
                                               STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                              Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                    Mar - 2004
                                                InMillions USDollars

                                                                Committed                          Disbursed

                                                         IFC                               IFC

N Approval    Company                                 Loan    Equity     Quasi   Panic    Loan    Equity     Quasi    PaRiC

1998          CIMA Mexico                             0.00     4.80      n.00    0.00     0.00     4.80      0.00      0.00

1998          CIMA Puebla                             6.75     0.00      n.00    0.00     3.25     0.00      0.00      n.00

1994101       CTAPV                                   0.40     0.00      n.00    0.00     0.40     0.00      0.00      0.00

1997          Chiapas-Propalma                        0.00     1.00      n.00    0.00     0.00     0.89      0.00      0.00

2001          Comercializadora                         1.53    0.00       1.09    1.88    1.53     0.00       1.09     1.88

2003          Compai-tamos                             1.00    0.66      n.00    0.00     1.00     0.66      0.00      0.00

2002          Copamex                                50.00     n.00      25.00   n.00     n.00     0.00      0.00      n.00

1999          Coppei                                 30.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   30.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001          Corsa                                   7.43     3.00      0.00    n.00     7.43     3.00      0.00      0.00

2000          Ecomex                                  4.75     n.m        1.50    0.w     2.15     0.00       i.50     n.00

1997          Educacion                               6.50     0.00      0.00     0.00    4.90     0.00       0.00     n.00

1998          FondoChiapas                            0.00     3.35      n.00     0.00    0.00     0.11       0.00     0.00

2001          Foja Monterrey                          8.36     3.00       n.00    8.36    8.36     3.00       0.00     8.36

1996          GNorte                                 50.00     n.co       0.00    n.00    o m      0.00       0.00     n.00

1996100       GIBSA                                  10.82     0.00       n.00   36.38    10.82    0.00       n.00    36.38

1998/04       GIRSA                                  35.36     n.00       0.00   47.14   35.36     0.00       n.00    47.14

1989          GrupoCalidra                           22.00     0.00       n.00    0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00     0.04

1997          GrupoFEMSA                              0.00     2.85       0.00    0.00    0.00     2.85       n.00     n.ou
1996199       GrupoMinsa                             12.60     0.00       0.00   17.97    12.60    0.00       0.00    17.97

1998          Gmpo Posadas                           22.37     0.00      in.w     n.00    22.37    0.m       in.oo     0.00

Zoo0          Grupo Sanfandila                        5.69     n.00       0.00    2.20     5.69    0.00       O.MI     2.211

2000          HospitalABC                            30.00     0.00       n.00   14.00    10.29    0.00       0.00     7.21

2000          ITR                                    11.00     0.00       0.00    3.00    11.00    0.00       n.00     3.00

2003          Innopack                                0.00     15.00      0.00    n.00     0.00    15.00      0.00     0.00

1998          Interoyal                               0.00     ani        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.01       0.00     0.00

2003          Lomasde Real                           52.70     n.00      20.00   83.46     1.41    0.00       0.00     0.00

1995/99       Meridd111                              27.08     n.00       n.00   61.75    27.08    0.00       0.00    61.75
mm/w/ni       Mexmal                                  0.00     0.00      10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      10.00     0.00

2003          Mexplus Puenos                          0.00     1.41       0.00    0.00     0.00     1.41      0.00     0.00

2003          NEMAK                                   0.00     0.00       1.51    0.00     0.00    0.00        1.51    0.00

zoo0          OccidentalMex                          30.00     0.00       0.00   40.00    30.00    0.00       0.00    40.00

2001          OCCihOl                                 0.00     9.99       0.00    0.N      n.00    9.99       0.00     0.00

2002          POLOMEX SA.                              8.00    n.00       0.00    n.00     8.00    0.00       0.00     0.00

2002          Pan American                            0.00     6.39       n.00    0.00     0.00     6.39      0.00     0.00

2000          Plata                                   9.50     0.00       n.00    0.00     9 50    0.00       0.00     n.00
2004          Puertas Finas                          12.19     n.00       0.00    0.00    12.19     0.00       0.00    0.00

2000          Qualita                                 0.00     2.50       3.50    0.00     n.00     2.50       3.50    0.00

2000          Rio Bravo                              47 12     n.00       n.00   54.11    47.12     0.00       0.00    54.11

2001          SSA Mexico                             45.00     n.00       0.00    0.00    45.00     0.00       0.00    0.00

1997          SaltilloS.A.                           33.16     0.00       0.00   39.12    33.16     0.00       0.00    39.12

2003          Servicios                                8.25    1.90       0.00    7.50     8.25     1.90       0.00     7.50
              SuCasita                                0.00     10.62      1.62    0.00     0.00    10.62       1.62    0.00
              TMA                                      1.78    0.00       2.82    6.22     1.78     0.00       2.82     6.22

              TM\VC                                   3.00     n.00       0.00    0.00     n.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
                           Total Portfolio:         697.45    93.66      97.04   535.81   443.76    84.78      32.04   361.64




                                                       98

                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval    Company                     Loan         Equity          Quasi    Partic

2004           CalidraI1                    0.00          0.00           0.00    11.00

1998           Cima Hermosillo              7.00          0.00           0.00     0.00

2003           Copamex                      7.00          0.02           0.00    60.00

200I           Ecomex                       3.50          0.00           0.00     0.00

2 m            Educacion                    3.20          0.00           0.00     0.00

200I           GFNorte-CL                  50.00          0.00           0.00    100.00

2004           IAMSA                       37.00          0.00           0.00     0.00

2003           Mexmai                       0.00           5.00          0.00     0.00

2003           Poiomex                      2.00           0.00          0.00     0.00

2034           SuCasitaCLF                 16.47           0.00          0.00     0.00

2003           Tizayuca                    25.00          10.00          0.00    30.00

               Total PendingCommitment:    151.17         15.00          0.00    201.00

                                    Annex 16: Country at a Glance

     MEXICO: State Judicial ModernizationSupporting Access to Justice Project

                                                                 L a t i n  U p p e r -
P O V E R T Y a n d S O C I A L                               A m e r i c a m i d d l e -
                                                   M e x i c o & Carib.     i n c o m e     D e v e l o p m e n t d i a m o n d '
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                        100 9          527           331
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    5 920       3,280          5,040                      Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method,                                    597 0         1,727         1,668


Population (%)                                             14           15            12
Labor force (%)                                           2 4           2 2           18    GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                            per                                       primary
                                                                                            capita                                 enrollment

                                                                        76            75
                                                           74            71           73
                                                                        27             19
                                                                          9                        Access to improved water source
                                                                        86            90
                                                             8            11            7
                                   ol-age populatio        113          130          105        -Mexico
  Male                                                     114          131          106                Upper-middle-income group
  Female                                                   113          128          105                                                       I




                                         19*2-92 1992-02                          2o02                                                         '
(average annual growth)                                                                       Growth of e x p o r t s a n d i m p o r t s ( % )

Ag ricuIture                                   0 7         1 7          3 3          - 0 4   3 0

industry                                       2 5         3 7         -3 5           0 0     2 0
  Manufacturing                                3 0         4 3         -3 7          -0 6
Services                                       2 0         3 1          0.7            14     lo

Private consu m ption                          2 7         2 9          2 7            12       O

General government consum ption                2 1         15           -12           -13     10
~ r o s domestic investment
        s                                      2 5         4 7         -5 2           0 5
Imports of goods and Services                  112         118          -15            16             -Expo           Its     -9-lmporls




                                                       100

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                      1982    1992    2001    2002       1 Inflation
Domestic prices                                                                      (70)                          I
(%change)                                                                 40

Consumerprices                          58.9    15.5     6.4     5.0      30
ImplicitGDP deflator                    60.9    14.4     6.5     4.6      20

Government finance                                                         x)
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                         27.4   23.7     21.8    Z.6         0

Current budgetbalance                   -6.0     5.0      19      0.2
Overall surpluskleficit                 -14.1    1.4    -0.7     -12

TRADE
                                       1982   1992    2001     2002
(US$mi//ions)                                                               Export and import levels (US$ mill.
Total exports (fob)                  24,055   46,196 158,443  H,8B         !00.000
 Oil                                  16,477  8,307   P,799   14,475                                               I
 Agriculture                            1233   2,lP   3,903    3,998
 Manufactures                         5,843   35,420  141353  141,951
Total imports (cif)                    l7,Oll 62p9   F8,396   E8949
 Consumergoods                          157   7,744   19,752   2178
 Intermediategoods                    x),S91 42,830   p6,149  m,m
 Capitalgoods                                                                                                      I
                                      4,502   11556   22,496  20,992
Exportpriceindex (S-m)                   m        91     X M m                      96 97   98    99  00  01     02

Importprice index ( W 5 X X ) )           74      91     "4                              Exports        imports
Terms of trade (=GO)                      171    130      x)1     xn

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                       1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                               Current account balance to GDP (k
Exportsof g d s and Service           28,159  55,387  I71m i73,374
Importsof goods and services          22,841  73,60   184,614 185,419
Resourcebalance                       5,328 -18,233   -B,511  -4045
Netincme                             -P,261 -9,595   -x3,835  -P,282
Netcurrenttransfers                     1043  3,386    9,338   r),m
Currentaccount balance                -5,890 -24,438  -18,m -14,058
Financingitems(net)                    2,315  26,W    25,347   s,ai
Changesin net reserves                 3,574  -1745   -7,239   -5,793

Memo:
Reservesincluding gdd (US$mi//ims)       914  18,975  44,814  50,607
Conversion rate(DC,/maMS$)           5.64E-2     3.1      9.3     9.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                       1982    1992    2001    2002
(US$mi//ions)                                                                :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mlll
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed   86,081 1P,315   158,291 153,923
  IBRD                                 2,652  11966   x),M x),596                      G:         A:
  IDA                                      0       0       0        0                 18,000   '0,596

Total debtservice                     8,684   20,751  48,729  35,254
  IBRD                                   328   1874    2 , m    2,093
  IDA                                      0       0       0        0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                         76      14
  Official creditors                    1577     615    -669    -432
  Privatecreditors                      6,391   -531   3,198   -3,932
  Foreigndirect investment              1,655 4,393   25,334   t3,627
  Porifdioequity                           0  4.783       8 1    -#I                            F:
World Bank program                                                                            116,503
  Commitments                            540   1,3B      860    1322         4 - IBRD                  E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                          408   1,352     749    1247         3 - IDA  D- Other         F- Prlvate
  Principal repayments                    x33    981    1,314   1356         ;- multilateral
                                                                                 IMF                   G.-..Short-
                                                                                                       .
  Netflows                               275     371    -565     -x)8




                                                    101

Map Section




    102

