Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3604 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%);Sub-national 
government administration (30%);General industry and trade 
sector (20%);Micro- and SME Finance (10%) 
Project ID 
P102302 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Lesotho 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning,  
Box 395 Maseru 
Kingdom of Lesotho 
Date PID Prepared 
November 22, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 20, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 17, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
While Lesotho has achieved respectable growth rates in the last few years, poverty remains widespread 
and unemployment levels are high.  The growth fueled by a sharp increase in mining output has not been 
broad-based as the sector is not labor absorbing and has few forward and backward linkages in the 
economy.  The garment sector employs about 50,000 workers, but prospects for further increases are 
limited under the current circumstances.  Particular objectives of the growth strategy are to address the 
most critical constraints facing the private sector to achieve private sector led broad based growth which 
is considered to be an essential ingredient for poverty reduction.   
After more than 35 years, the elected local government system in Lesotho was reestablished in 2005 
through the election of the Local Authorities (128 Community Councils (CCs) were elected and formed 
the basis of 10 District Councils (DCs), incorporating traditional authorities (Chiefs), alongside with the 
pre-existing district administration representing the central government. The new system of local 
authorities was home grown and supported across the political spectrum, leading to a swift 
establishment of the elected councils.  However, service delivery, poverty reduction and growth are 
hampered by weak implementation capacity and the difficulties of the terrain and the inadequacy of the 
infrastructure. Decentralization is aimed to improve service delivery for the Basotho people, who live 
predominantly in remote rural areas.  
By supporting the implementation of policy and institutional reforms, the proposed PRSC series is 
expected to contribute to broad-based private sector led growth, poverty reduction and improved service 
delivery. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed PRSC aims to contribute to the Government’s medium term development objectives as set 
out in the PRS and the Growth Strategy.  The operation will contribute to strengthening the business 
environment and promoting economic diversification leading to broad based and employment 
generating growth.  It will enhance the oversight of public finances and the procurement and financial 
management systems, thereby increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector spending, 
which currently accounts for about 50 percent of GDP.  It will create effective inter-governmental 
resource transfer mechanisms with full accountability at the central and decentralized levels of 
Page  2
government. Reforms supporting decentralization will improve governance, empowerment and service 
delivery at the local level. 
 
The PRSC will also contribute to the harmonization agenda through a greater alignment with key donors 
and government systems. It is designed to strengthen and support domestic accountability, reduce 
transaction costs and develop and use Lesotho’s own systems- rather than setting up and using parallel 
donor systems.  A unified Performance Assessment Framework will be used by Government and all its 
Budget Support partners to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the program, in line with the 
budget timetable. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed poverty reduction support credit (PRSC-1) is the first in the three year PRSC program and 
aims at supporting actions already undertaken by the government in all the components of the program.  
The proposed operation is part of a joint effort by Lesotho’s key development partners (DPs) to provide 
predictable and performance based budget support to implement Lesotho’s overall poverty reduction and 
growth strategy.  As a result the proposed measures are part of a joint Performance Assessment 
Framework agreed between IDA, the Government of Lesotho and other DPs.  While the PRSC 
operations together with the contributions by other DPs will provide financial support for the 
Government’s program, each operation will disburse against specific prior actions as identified in the 
PAF.  The reform program is organized into three components: 
·
The 
first
 component of the Program focuses on institutional reforms that propel growth 
by creating an enabling investment climate.  The reforms focus on simplifying the business 
environment, facilitating trade, enhancing skills and making land and other necessary 
infrastructure available. 
·
The 
second
 component is directed at strengthening the link between the PRS and the 
budget and strengthening the fiduciary framework including financial management; 
accountability and transparency of budget execution as well as procurement. 
·
The 
third
 component supports the ongoing decentralization process in Lesotho.  In 
particular, the reforms are aimed (i) to strengthen local governance and the ability of 
communities and individuals to access services and hold service providers accountable; (ii) to 
strengthen the ability of service providers to effectively respond to the demand and scale up their 
service and infrastructure provision; and (iii) to assist the local governments and other local 
actors to contribute to local development through improved agriculture and natural resource 
management.  
4. Environment Aspects 
None 
 
5. Tentative financing: 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
Total 20 
6. 
Contact point
:
Page  3
Contact: Preeti Arora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5369+3129/27-12-431 3129 
Fax: 27-12-431 3134 
Email: parora@worldbank.org 
Location: Pretoria, South Africa (IBRD) 
Contact: Melanie Jaya 
Title: Program Assistant 
Tel: 5369+3108 
Fax: 27 12 431 3134 
Email: mjaya@worldbank.org 
Location: Pretoria, South Africa 
