Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4449-LS 
GRANT NUMBER H387-LS 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Grant and Credit) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 20, 2008
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4449-LS 
GRANT NUMBER H387-LS 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 20, 2008, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
LESOTHO (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support 
 
of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has 
decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the 
Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby 
agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit 
(collectively, “Financing”) in the following amounts: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to four million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000) (“Grant”); and 
(b)  
an amount equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000) (“Credit”) 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association 
to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
 Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the minister responsible for Finance and 
Development Planning. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
 
P.O. Box 395 
 Maseru 
100 
 Lesotho 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(266) 22 310 157 
 
(266) 22 310 622 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Maseru, Kingdom of Lesotho, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
By: /s/ Timothy Thahane 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Ruth Kagia 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1.  A One Stop Shop for facilitation of the issuance of manufacturing and trading 
licenses and processing import permits and export visas has been established by 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Trade and Industry, Cooperatives and Marketing and 
is operational as evidenced by the letter from the Principal Secretary, Ministry of 
Trade and Industry, Cooperatives and Marketing, dated April 17, 2008. 
2. The first phase of preparation of NSDS, including the completion of 
 
the: (i) inception report on the design of the NSDS; (ii) stakeholder consultations 
on the NSDS; and (iii) situation analysis in key line ministries, has been finalized 
as evidenced by the Inception Report dated November 2, 2007. 
3. 
Medium term macroeconomic and fiscal framework for the central government 
budget has been finalized by the MFDP as evidenced by the budget 
documentation for 2008/09 through 2010/2011 issued by the MFDP. 
4. MTEF is being piloted in six line ministries as evidenced by budget 
documentation for 2008/09 through 2010/2011 issued by the MFDP.  
5. 
The MFDP has adopted an IFMIS implementation plan as evidenced by the letter 
from The MFDP dated April 14, 2008. 
6.  The Public Procurement Regulations have been adopted as evidenced by the 
relevant legal notice published in the LGG on January 5, 2007.  
7. 
Secondary education enrollment has increased by 10% as evidenced by a letter 
from the Ministry of Education and Training, dated April 17, 2008.  
8. 
The national OVC Strategic Plan for the period 2006-2011 has been finalized by 
the MHSW as evidenced by the OVC Strategic Plan. 
9.  The HIV/AIDS annual operational plan for 2007 to implement the National 
Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS for 2006-2011 has been completed by the National 
AIDS Commission as evidenced by the said plans. 
Page  7
6
10. 
The Local Government Service Act has been approved by the Recipient’s 
Parliament and it has been published as evidenced in the LGG of 
 
January 30, 2008. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
 single 
tranche. 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount  
of the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for 
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable  
to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make  
 
a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly 
 
 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such 
 
payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
 request 
shall 
be 
 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2009. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 1 and December 1: 
 
commencing June 1, 2018 to and including 
December 1, 2027 
1% 
commencing June 1, 2028 to and including 
December 1, 2047 
2% 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Cabinet” means the Recipient’s cabinet of ministers. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national  
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant 
or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  10
9
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4. 
“IFMIS” means Integrated Financial Management Information System. 
5. 
“LGG” means Lesotho Government Gazette, the Recipient’s official gazette.  
6. 
“MET” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education and Training. 
7. 
“MFDP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Development Planning. 
8. 
“MHSW” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. 
9. 
“MTEF” means medium term expenditure framework. 
10. 
“NSDS” means national strategy for the development of statistics. 
11. 
“OVC Strategic Plan” means the Strategic plan for Implementation of the 
National OVC Policy. 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed  
to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth  
or referred to in the letter dated April 16, 2008 from the Recipient 
 
to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support 
 
of the Program during its execution. 
Page  11
10
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
Page  12
11
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
