Document ofDif
The World Bank                                      i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3402-BU
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 19, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00           -    FBU 89
FBu 100           -    US$1.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                   British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)     3                        3.3 feet
l cubic meter (m )                       35.3 Cubic feet
l hectare (ha) = 100 ares                2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                 0.62 mile
l square kilometer (m )                  0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                          2.20 pounds (lb)
l liter (1)                              0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.2 Imperial gallon (imp. gal)
1 ton (metric ton)                       2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BNDE      -  Banque Nationale de Développement Economique
(National Economic Development Bank)
BCC       -  Burundi Coffee Company
CAMOFI    -  Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement
(Fund for Mobilization and Financing)
COGERCO   -  Caisse de Gerance et de Reserve Cotonniere
(Cotton Management and Reserve Fund)
EPA       -  Fonds d-Aide et de Cooperation
(French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
FAO       -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FECOBU    -  Fédération des Cooperatives Populaires du Burundi
(Burundi Federation of Peasants- Cooperatives)
FED       -  Fonds Europeen de Développement (European Development Fund)
ILO       -  International Labor Organization
ISABU     -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(Burundi Institute of Agricultural Science)
ITAB      -  Institut des Techniques Agricoles du Burundi
(Burundi Institute of Agronomy)
OCIBU     -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(Burundi Industrial Crop Development Office)
RDC       -  Regional Development Company
UNICEF    -  UJnited Nations Children Fund
FISCAL YE.AR
Government: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .............................................  1
A.   Project Background . .....................................    1
B.  Sector Background ......................................   2
C.   The Institutional Environment  .........            .................    8
D.  Marketing, Processing and Prices  .......              ................  13
E.   The First Two Coffee Improvement Projects  ....               ..........  16
II.    THE PROJECT AREA  ...........            ................................  20
A.  Location and Physical Characteristics  ....                ..............  20
B.   Socio-Cultural Aspects and Socio-Economic Infrastructure  21
C.  Development Projects in the Kirimiro Region ....                 ........  25
II.    THE PROJECT .         ................................................  28
A.  General Description ....................................  28
B.  Detailed Features  ......................................  29
C.  Project Costs  ..........................................  35
D.   Financing ...........           ...................................   37
E.  Procurement  ..........           ..................................  37
F.  Disbursements  ..........................................  38
G.  Accounts and Audits  ....................................  39
H.   Environmental Impact ...................................  40
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ................................  40
A.  Project Organization and Staffing  ......................  40
B.  Management of Project Components  .......................  42
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................  43
V.    TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS  .......... ..               ...............  44
VI.    MARKETS AND PRICES           ...................    ......................  46
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .................................  4°
VIII.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                   .     .    51
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. F.M. Patorni, N.R. Brouard, B. Mbida-Essama, J.C. Salle and
Y. Wong You Cheong which visited Burundi in March/April 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   f
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
SUPPORTING TABLES, ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Table 1   -    Project Costs Summary
Table 2   -    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 3   -    Regional Development Company Cash Flow
Table 4   -    Government Project Cash Flow
Table 5   -    Economic Analysis
Table 6   -    Farm Budgets
Annex 1   -    Materials Available in the Project File
Chart 1   -    Implementation Schedule
Chart 2   -    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Chart 3   -    Ministry of Rural Development
Chart 4   -    RDC - Kirimiro
MAP - IBRD15319:  Location of Project Area
MAP - IBRD15320: Project Area



BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      Rural development has become a major theme of development strategy
in Burundi. With a growing scarcity of cultivable land and few other natural
resources, the Government believes that broad-based rural development efforts
offer the most realistic prospect for increasing agricultural production and
for feeding a growing population. Past efforts to increase production through
emphasis on the development of cash crops have had some success, but many
schemes fell short of yielding the anticipated benefits. Now the Government
has more diversified objectives which include foodcrop development, reaffores-
tation and erosion control. A key feature of the Government's strategy to
implement rural development projects is the creation of Regional Development
Companies (RDCs), which would gradually become responsible for all rural
development activities.
1.02      The proposed Project is a six-year program to increase agricultural
production and improve rural services in the Kirimiro region in central
Burundi. The Project was prepared by "Societe Mixte d'Etudes du Burundi"
(SOMEBIJ), a mixed-capital consulting firm established in Burundi, and reviewed
by various Ministries, in particular the Ministries of Planning, of Agriculture
and Livestock, and of Rural Development. The Bank's Regional Mission in East
Africa (RMEA) provided guidance to SOMEBU during Project preparation and
discussed progress with the relevant Ministries. An IDA pre-appraisal mission
visited Burundi in November 1979. A detailed preparation report was completed
by SOMEBU and approved by Government also in November 1979, and was the basis
for appraisal of the proposed Project. This report is based on the findings
of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Burundi in March/April 1980, composed
of Messrs. F.M. Patorni, N.R. Brouard, B. Mbida-Essama, J.C. Salle and Y. Wong
You Cheong.                                                     J
1.03      A number of changes to the preparation report were discussed during
the appraisal mission and accepted by Government. The proposed program to
improve rural roads was reduced to the necessary minimum. The digging of
trenches along contour lines on pastures was removed from the Project descrip-
tion, as the cost of this component would not justify the limited benefits
which would arise from it. Similarly, a foodcrop marketing and storage com-
ponent was reduced to small pilot activities (para. 3.14) because its benefits
are doubtful and because it would place an excessive management burden on the
Project entity. However, a survey of foodcrops marketing would be carried
out under the proposed Project. A small medium-term credit component for
the purchase of heifers was also eliminated for similar reasons. In view



-2-
of the problems facing the livestock sector (paras. 1.16 - 1.18), the proposed
livestock component was reduced in scope to include only pilot activities
(para. 3.14). A livestock policy study was included in the Integrated Rural
Development Project/Ngozi III (para. 3.18). Finally, it was agreed that a
number of small components (such as improvement of rural housing, small
literacy programs and appropriate technology development) should not be
specifically included in the Project, but that funds should be allocated in
the Credit for pilot projects which would be discussed on a case-by-case basis
for eventual inclusion in the Project's annual work programs (para. 3.14).
1.04      This would be IDA's sixth credit for agricultural and rural
development in Burundi. The first project was for coffee improvement in
the Ngozi province in Northern Burundi (Cr. 147-BU) and received an IDA credit
of US$1.8 million. It was signed in 1969 and fully disbursed in June 1976.
It was followed by a second coffee improvement project (Cr. 593-BU) in the
same province financed by IDA (US$5.2 million) and by the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (US$1.2 million). This second credit was signed in
1975 and is expected to be fully disbursed by September 30, 1981. These
two projects were moderately successful and are described at paras. 1.43 to
1.54. A fisheries project (Cr. 626-BU) financed by an IDA Credit of US$6
million and cofinanced by the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development
(US$1 million) was approved in 1976. Its implementation has been slowed down
by delays in recruiting staff and shortages of materials and supplies. Normal
progress of the project is constrained by weak institutional performance and
financial difficulties. A forestry project (Cr. 918-BU) for an IDA Credit of
US$4.3 million and cofinanced by FAC (France, US$1.86 million), UNDP (US$0.70
million) and EEC Special Action Account (US$1.2 million) was approved in 1979,
and is being implemented on schedule and without any major problems. A third
rural development project in the Ngozi province was appraised in July/August
1980. Another rural development project is being prepared for north-eastern
Burundi (Muyinga province).
B. Sector Background
General
1.05      Burundi is a small (25,000 km sq) landlocked country (Map).  The
.nearest major seaport, Dar-Es-Salaam, is about 1,200 km away. Most imports
come by rail from Dar-Es-Salaam to Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika and by boat
from there to Bujumbura. Exports follow the same route in reverse. Delays
through Tanzanian ports and railways are a major impediment to the flow of
goods to and from Burundi. The population of nearly four and a half million,
increasing at about 2% a year gives Burundi one of the highest population
density (over 160/km) in Africa. Bujumbura with a population of about
175,000 is the only major,urban center, and more than 90% of the population
live in the rural areas where population density varies from about 50/km sq
to over 300/km sq. About 50% of the population is under 20 years old. Burundi
is one of the 25 "least developed" nations in the world with per capita GNP



estimated at US$140 in 1978. Real GNP growth over the past decade has stag-
nated and the standard of living in the rural area may even have declined.
Per capita income in the urban sector is estimated to be four to five times
that of rural areas.
1.106     Burundi consists of four major eco-climatic zones. From west to
east, they comprise: (a) the Imbo, made up of a number of plains with
altitudes of from just below 800 to 1,000 m, annual rainfalls of 800 to
1,000 mm and average temperatures of 24 0C; (b) the Zaire-Nile Crest with
altitudes of 1,800 to more than 2,500 m, annual rainfalls of 1,300 to 1,800 mm
and average temperatures of about 15 C; (c) the Central Platau with altitudes
of 1,500 to 2,000 m, annual rainfalls of 1,100 to 1,500 mm and average
temperatures of about 18 C; this is the most densely populated and the most
economically important area; (d) the savannahs of the north and east, with
altitudes below 1,600 m annual rainfalls of 800 to 1,200 mm and average
temperatures of 200 -25 C.  There are four seasons:  a short season in January
followed by the major rainy season in February to May, then the major dry
season from May to September and finally a short rainy season from October to
December. Of Burundi's total land area, about 40% of the total land area,
excluding lakes, is under cultivation. Another 20% or so is considered arable
but is not being utilized; about 23% is pasture land, 3% is forest and the
rest is occupied by towns, wasteland, lakes and rivers.
1.07      Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic activity.  Over
the last few years, it has accounted for about 60% of the Gross Domestic
Product and provided almost all of the foreign exchange earnings, with coffee
contributing about 90% and animal skins, tea and cotton making up most of
the rest. During the same period, food and beverage imports accounted for
about 15% of the total value of merchandise imports, underlining a chronic
foodcrop production deficit.
1.08      More than 90% of Burundi's population derives its livelihood
directly from agriculture and much of the rest is directly or indirectly
dependent on it for employment. Most agricultural activity is of the
traditional subsistence type. There are an estimated 650,000 farming units
with an average farm size of below one hectare. About one quarter of the
farmers raise livestock. In addition to being the mainstay of the subsistence
economy, fooderops also represent the single most important source of money
iLncome for farmers (mainly the sale of banana "beer"). Export crops, mainly
coffee and to a lesser extent cotton and tea, provide about 20% of rural cash
income. Agricultural production faces the following serious constraints:
(a) the insufficiency of arable lands and the small size of the farms combined
with population growth which increases pressure on the land; (b) the lack of
adequate services, in particular for the supply of inputs and extension; (c)
soil erosion and degradation caused by the cultivation of steep slopes, poor
farming practices, inadequate anti-erosion measures, burning of agricultural
residues and grass, overgrazing, little or no fallow practice and the lack of
fertilizer application. All these factors have contributed to a decline in
subsistence foodcrop production per capita over the last decade and a worsening
of the already poor nutritional status of most of the rural population.



-4 -
Land Tenure
1.09      Although by law all land in Burundi belongs to the Government, in
practice, tenure is regulated by a combination of traditional land laws and
modern regulations. Under the traditional system, individuals are granted
usufruct rights over, not ownership of, the land to be cultivated on a permanent
basis and own all the crops produced on that land. These rights are usually
transferable from father to sons or close relatives, with each heir receiving
only a fraction of the original plot. Uncultivated and unutilized land
belongs or reverts automatically to the Government, or else must be formally
registered with modern title deeds to remain private. Only about 1-2% of all
land is considered private land. Land rights are acquired through inheritance,
outright sale, lease, gifts or Government allocation for settlement purposes.
Efforts to change traditional land practices in rural areas have met with
little success because of organizational complexities and psychological
resistance from farmers. To expropriate cultivated land, the Government must
pay compensation; it can, however, acquire other land, including grazing land,
without compensation.
Agricultural Production and Production Systems
1.10      Food Crops.  About 90% of cultivated land is planted with foodcrops,
with over 25% of this under bananas, the other main foodcrops being cassava,
sweet potatoes, beans and maize. There are two harvests a year in most
places. Data on foodcrop production and yields are unreliable and scanty, but
what is available indicates that overall production has only slightly increased
over the last six years due to the extension of cultivated land but per capita
production has remained stagnant at about 750 kg of produce per capita
because of declining yields and population growth.
1.11      Because of its varied eco-climatic conditions, Burundi has a
considerable diversity of cropping patterns. Traditional farming methods
based on the family unit are predominant all over the country and most
farmers lack adequate know-how and resources to adopt modern techniques
which are limited to the outlying regions (Imbo and Kumoso) and concern
only a few coffee and tea plantations in the interior. There are two main
cultural seasons corresponding to the major and the short rainy seasons. Two
types of land are exploited: the hills and the valleys. Little or no fallow
is practiced because of limited land availability. Intensive farming and
inadequate erosion control measures on slopes contribute to rapid land
degradation. Valley plots are drained and farmed with beans only during the
major dry season. More than 85% of farming activities are carried out on
hill slopes where the average farm size is about 0.8 ha. The average farm
consists of several separate plots located in most cases on the same hill.
Most of the farm area planted with foodcrops is used for multiple intercrop-
ping. There is no integration of livestock and farming activities, and
cropping competes with grazing and coffee growing for the same land.
1.12      About half of the labor requirements at the f arm are provided by
women. Most of the seeds used come from the family farm. Farming tools
are rudimentary and limited mainly to the hoe for digging up the ground
and to the matchete which is used for cutting grass before burning.
Practically no pesticides or fertilizers are used because they are either
not usually available or too expensive and their usefulness is not well known
by farmers.



- 5 -
1.13      Commercial Crops.  The main cash crops are coffee, tea, cotton and
to a lesser extent rice. Coffee is grown by about half the farmers and is by
far Burundi-s most important export crop. It accounts for about 90% of
foreign exchange earnings and generates about one-third of all government
revenues. Almost all coffee is of the arabica type and its production varies
from year to year mainly because of climatic conditions.  Coffee husbandry
standards vary according to regions but mulching could be much improved in
general and would lead to higher productivity. Tea was introduced just over
ten years ago and its production is still negligible but is expanding because
of a favorable high altitude climate. Cotton production decreased for a
number of years due mainly to its low farmgate price but has picked up again.
Recent production data of these crops are shown below:
1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
-----------  000 tons ------------
Coffee
Arabica              21    19    23    20    15    21
Robusta               1      3     2      2     2      2
Tea                   0.6   0.9   0.8       1   1.4   1.4
Seed Cotton           4.7   4.5   3.8   3.0   5.1   6.1
1.14      Arabica coffee is mainly grown in the Ngozi, Gitega and Muyinga
provinces (Map) which all have an average annual rainfall of 1,100 to 1,500 mm
and altitudes of 1,500 and 2,000 m. Over one-third of total production comes
from Ngozi.  Smallholder Arabica coffee is grown in small stands covering from
0.04 to 0.10 ha with 80 to 180 trees per farmer. Most of the plantations are
on flat or gently sloping lands located close to the rugo (a fenced yard
around the dwelling). Coffee yields vary from one region to the next with
Ngozi having the highest yield because of its better soils and climatic
conditions, and as a result of the first two coffee improvement proiects.
Fertilizers have been applied on and off and only in Ngozi as the government
has at different times banned and then authorized fertilizer imports. Country-
wide insect control campaigns are usually organized and financed by OCIBU
(Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi) (para. 1.31). Pruning is not
properly done, except in area covered by the first IDA-financed coffee project
and mulching material is fast becoming hard to find. Yields have been generally
decreasing and vary from around 200 gr/tree in Gitega and Muyinga to about 450
gr/tree in Ngozi on the average. These numbers should be viewed with caution
as no reliable data base exists. Due to the scarcity of land suitable and
available for coffee development, the improvement of productivity through
improved husbandry practices will become increasingly important. Potential
for developing other crops appears limited, although the Government is trying
to develop a sugar agro-industry.



1.15      Modern Agricultural Sector.  Modern agricultural techniques are
being tried: (a) in the settlement schemes called "paysannat"; (b) on indus-
trial plantations; and (c) on irrigation schemes. Settlement schemes were
started by the Government in 1949 to transfer people from the densely populated
central plateau area to the sparsely populated lower areas in an effort to
remedy the land shortage problem. Physical and social infrastructures are
provided (roads, schools and dispensaries) as well as an improved technical
package and extension services. Farmers have the usufruct of a 1.5 to 4.0 ha
plot but must conform to set agricultural practices. Settlements to date
cover about 40,000 ha and promote industrial crops: cotton (Rusizi Plain),
rice and sugar cane (Ruzizi and Kumoso). Despite the unfamiliar and unpleasant
conditions prevailing in the plains which slowed down the immigration of
highland people towards the settlements, the "paysannat" schemes have achieved
some success and produce most of the rice and cotton in Burundi. Industrial
plantations of robusta coffee are privately owned and cover an area of about
800 ha on the Ruzizi Plain; they operate under modern agricultural techniques
and produce about 75% of Burundi's robusta coffee. Industrial plantations of
tea cover about 4,500 ha at high altitudes and belong to the Government. An
irrigated settlement of about 5,000 ha has been established under European
Development Fund financing in the Imbo Plain.  About 3,000 farming families
grouped in 6 villages have been settled and given rights over about i ha each
for the irrigated farming of rice, maize and sorghum and the dry farming of
cassava and groundnuts. A Regional Development Company provides physical
(drainage canals, roads) and social amenities, and extension services. The
farmers pay for water, do some maintenance work and follow set agricultural
practices. Climatic adaptation of the settlers, demanding agricultural
methods, and the lack of livestock raising possibilities are some of the
major problems encountered by the irrigation project. A number of settlers
have returned to their original regions.
1.16      Livestock.  There are no reliable statistics on livestock.  It is
estimated that there are in Burundi about 800,000 heads of cattle, 600,000
goats, 300,000 sheep and 30,000 pigs. Poultry is also kept in some regions.
About 25% of the farmers own some kind of livestock. Milk production is
estimated at about 55 million liters a year and meat production at 10,000 tons
carcass weight. The density of cattle varies from 15 to more than 60 heads
per km sq. Extension of livestock is limited by the scarcity of pasture and
because cattle are bred extensively more for prestige than for economic and
nutritional reasons. During the rainy season, they graze freely on communal
pastures and fallow lands and in the dry season, move down to marshland in
valley bottoms. The lack of organized grazing, the high stocking rates and
repeated burning cause overgrazing with a resulting decrease in the carrying
capacity of the pastures. Grazing, food cropping and coffee growing all
compete for the same land. Cattle in general is brought back to a hut at the
"rugo" at night. No fodder or water is provided at the rugo and little or no
manure is collected. Cows are milked in the morning but milk production is
low (about 300 liters per lactation). The herd composition in the country is
about 2% bulls, 439 cows, 24% heifers, 18% bullocks and steers, and 17%
calves. The cattle are mainly the Ankole breed. There is a high incidence



of diseases and parasitic infections; veterinary services are inadequate and
poorly maintained. As a result, mortality rates are high, especially among
calves. Offtake is estimated at six to seven percent.
1.17      Burundi goats are small, stocky and well-adapted to local
conditions. Sheep raising is not a traditional activity and has only
recently been introduced. Goats and sheep roam around the rugo for grazing
or are tethered where pasture is available. Very few of them are dipped.
Farmers have no access to improved breeds or to selected sires or dams.
Milking goats are currently being introduced from Germany in the Central
Plateau region, but on a very small scale so far. Pigs and poultry are also
raised in the hi:Lls where they rummage for food and receive virtually no care
or supplementary food.
1.18      Given the rapidly declining grazing lands, the competition between
grazing and agriculture for land in many areas and the traditional attitudes
affecting cattle raising (para. 1.16), there is an urgent need for the Govern-
ment to define a national livestock policy before any significant activities
can be undertaken. Surveys and studies to assist Government in defining such
policy would be undertaken under the Integral Rural Development Project/Ngozi
III (para. 3.18).
Fisheries
1.19      Burundi has about 2,850 km sq of territorial waters.  Fish production
has fluctuated in the last few years between 11,000 and 20,000 tons per annum,
dropping to 14,000 tons in 1978 due to departure of foreign fishermen.  A
number of studies have suggested that potential yields could be significantly
higher. Catches from the northern lakes have been estimated at about 1,000
tons per annum. There seems to be some potential for increasing production
there and for developing fish ponds.
Forestry
1.20      Burundi forest resources occupy about 3% of the country's total area
and are being depleted. The total area of forests, savannah woodland and tree
plantations does not exceed 90,000 ha. Data on forest exploitation and wood
consumption arS poor.  Total annual wood consumption is tentat ve1y estimated
at l million m , equivalent to an annual consumption of 0.25 m per head,
which appear well below minimum normal requirements. Wood product imports are
small and mainly consist of sawn timber. Plantation of forest is being
assisted under various projects including an IDA-financed forestry project
(para 1.04). A rural afforestation program would be carried out under the
proposed Project.
1.21      Other agricultural products include vegetables, fruits, tobacco,
cinchona bark and honey, all of which have no major significance for farmers
compared to those discussed above.



- 8 -
C. The Institutional Environment
1.22      The main institutions concerned with agricultural and rural
development are described in the following paragraphs. They include:
(i) the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
(ii) the Ministry of Rural Development;
(iii) the Cooperatives;
(iv) training institutions;
(v)  institutions in charge of banking and credit;
(vi) parastatal institutions; and
(vii) the local administration.
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
1.23      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Chart 1) is responsible
for direction and coordination of all activities in the agricultural and
livestock sector. The Minister is assisted by three Directors General for
agriculture, livestock, and planning respectively. The Director-General
of Agriculture is responsible for four departments: (i) Agronomy, responsible
for production and distribution of improved seeds, extension services, crop
protection, erosion control, soil fertility, and for the supervision of
various projects; (ii) Rural Works, responsible for irrigation, drainage,
water supply and land reclaimation; (iii) Waters and Forestry, responsible for
fisheries, reafforestation, soil protection and wildlife management; and
(iv) Land Tenure and Surveys. The Director-General of Livestock is
responsible for three departments: Animal Production, Animal Health and
Veterinary Laboratory. The Director-General of Planning is responsible for
agricultural training and for projects identification, preparation and
coordination.
1.24      Agricultural services are regionalized at the provincial level,
separately for each department:  most departments are represented at the
"arrondissement" (district) level (para. 1.35).  The Ministry is the
umbrella organization for several parastatal agencies (para. 1.29).  In
general, the Ministry is understaffed and field extension agents are
poorly trained, poorly supervised and lack adequate logistical support.
The 950:1 farmers to extension agent ratio reported by the Ministry appears
very weak.



- 9 -
The Ministry is receiving technical assistance under the ongoing Second
Technical Assistance Project (917-BU). Two internationally recruited
experts have joined the Directorate of Planning in September 1980 to assist
respectively in (i) project identification and preparation and (ii) in the
setting of a monitcring and evaluation system for the projects under the
responsibility of the Ministry. An expert in agricultural statistics
arrived in June 1980 and is employed in the Department of Statistics in
the Ministry of Planning to set up a data collection system operating on a
permanent basis, and to train statisticians.
Ministry of Rural Development
1.25      The Ministry of Rural Development (Chart 2) was created in 1979
out of the former Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
as a technical ministry conceived to supplement the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock in its rural sector activities. It has one director general
which supervises three departments: (i) the Cooperatives Department which
oversees an ILO/UNDP-financed cooperative project in the Ngozi area; (ii) the
Rural Housing Department which seeks to promote better housing in the rural
areas; and (iii) the Department of Hydraulics and Rural Electrification. Like
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Rural Development
is understaffed.
Cooperatives
1.26      Since 1976, the Government has tried to give a new impetus to the
development of cooperatives. The Cooperatives Department in the Ministry of
RLural Development is responsible for all cooperative development activities.
Emphasis is put on the training of staff and a cooperative training center
has just been opened. Cooperatives in Burundi fall into two groups: religious
and government supported. Many religious missions started and continue to
support a group of about 37 cooperatives totalling about ten thousand members.
These cooperatives formed a cooperative union in 1975 (Federation des Coopera-
tives Populaires du Burundi - FECOBU). FECOBU s members operate stores where
they retail essential goods such as candles, salt, palm oil, blankets, soap,
nails, etc. at low prices and purchase foodcrops from farmers. These crops
are resold to farmers at below market prices. FECOBU serves as a clearing
house for its members and has recently become involved in coffee marketing.
It also provides technical assistance to its members in accounting and manage-
ment. Government-supported cooperatives are for the most part financed by
bilateral and multilaterial organizations. They seek to play the same role as
FECOBU-s members and, further, to provide agricultural inputs to their members
at a later stage. Despite some notable results, insufficient farmers parti-
cipation and lack of trained cooperative officers are some of the serious
problems still facing cooperative development in Burundi.



- 10 -
Training Institutions
1.27      Burundi has four agricultural training institutions.  A small
new agricultural department created in 1974 at Bujumbura University produces
about a dozen graduates per year. The "Institut des Techniques Agricoles
du Burundi" (ITAB), in existence since 1965, offers a four-year course to
students who have reached half-way through high school. Up to 1978, about
126 agronomists and 16 veterinary technicians had graduated from ITAB.
A forestry section has.recently been added. The number of graduates is
expected to reach about 30 per year in the near future. Women have recently
been admitted to ITAB for the first time.  The "Ecole Professionnelle
Agricole" (EPA), a three-year post-primary agricultural school at Karuzi,
started in 1958, and trains about 25 field assistants (moniteurs) per year.
The Gihanga vocational school offers since 1969 a one and a half year training
course for future extension agents and produces about 15 graduates per year.
Although almost all the graduates from these institutions are employed by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, they are still not sufficient to
meet the country's needs for trained agricultural manpower. Most of the
training offered is not suited to Burundi's needs and the high mobility of
the existing staff reduces their efficiency. A heavy input of expatriate
technical assistance is constantly required and most of the better qualified
local staff are trained overseas.
Banking and Credit
1.28      The overall banking system includes the Central Bank (Banque de la
Republique du Burundi), three foreign-owned commercial banks (Banque de Credit
de Bujumbura, Banque Commerciale du Burundi and Banque Belgo-Africaine), the
Government-owned savings bank (Caisse d'Eparg.,e du Burundi), a development
Bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE)), and CAMOFI
(Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement). CAMOFI was created in 1979 as a
state-owned financial institution to provide short-, medium- and long-term
financing for industrial and rural development projects that are implemented
by government-owned companies.  Its funds comes from its capital and the
deposits of thrift institutions for the most part. The commercial banks have
branches at Gitega, Kayanza and Ngozi; the savings bank has a branch in each
province. The commercial banks finance seasonal working calital needs of
traders in agricultural commodities, but do not extend cred2t to farmers who
are considered too high risk. BNDE was created in 1967 to finance, among
other things, rural development activities and remains the only source of
medium-term agricultural credit, but such credit represented only 10% of its
loans outstanding at end 1978; it went mainly for tea activities. BNDE is 45%
owned by the Government, 33% by bilateral aid agencies and 22% by private
investors. The lack of a nationwide network, the small size of the farms and
the farmers' low revenues, the risks involved in the rural sector and the lack
of trained banking staff in sufficient numbers are some of the major obstacles
which have prevented BNDE from becoming an effective rural development institu-
tion. The French Caisse Centrale, under IDA financing, has been commissioned
to study the feasibility of establishing an agricultural credit institution in
Burundi and has sent one mission to Burundi. Its preliminary conclusion is



- il -
that it would be ill-advised to start a new rural credit institution, but that
there is a need for coordination among the already existing credit institutions
and for using those local parastatals which already provide adequate extension
services to channel any eventual credit to farmers.
Parastatal Institutions
1.29      The Government decided, following the 1976/77 boom in coffee prices
and the resources that it obtained from it,to implement its policy of developing
the public sector to modernize the economy and make up for the lack of private
initiative in promoting productive activities. However, the parastatals are a
heavy burden on the budget, and Government has undertaken to restructure this
sector and to reduce the subsidies given to parastatals. A request for
technical assistance to the parastatal sector was sent to the Bank in February
1980. Following this request, the Bank and Government have entered into a
series of discussions, and a Third Technical Assistance Credit concentrating
on parastatals is to be appraised shortly.
1.30      The following parastatal institutions, with the exception of BCC,
are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
Most of them are generally understaffed and employ internationally recruited
staff to a large extent.
1.31      OCIBU (Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi) is a
financially autonomous parastatal institution established in 1964. OCIBU
was originally intended to be responsible for the production, quality control,
conditioning, marketing control and promotion of all industrial export crops.
In practice, however, it deals only with coffee. Its main activity is to
ensure the quality of Burundi coffee in accordance with internationally
recognized grades. It also establishes and maintains communal coffee hand
pulpers, imports, distributes and supervises the use of pesticides,
fertilizers and other coffee related agricultural inputs, administers the
coffee price stabilization fund (para. 1.39) and a coffee promotion fund.
Finally, OCIBU controls all internal coffee marketing (para. 1.38) and has
been responsible for the implementation of the first two coffee improvement
projects (para 1.04). OCIBU is headquartered in Bujumbura and is administered
by a Board of Directors. It operates four hulling factories inherited from
private companies, whîch are very old and whose operation and maintenance have
become costly. The Government has decided to build a new modern hulling
factory to be managed by OCIBU. The time frame and financing for this project
are not yet well defined. OCIBU's resources come from taxes levied on coffee
exports and from loans and grants from Government.
1.32      ISABU.  Agricultural research is carried out by the Institut des
Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU), largely financed by Belgian aid.
It has a large Belgian technical assistance staff, operates five research
stations and is headed by a director general assisted by six department heads.
The lack of qualified local scientists, equipment and adequate physical



- 12 -
infrastructure has been a serious constraint on all research activities.
ISABU also supervises three pilot projects for tea, foodcrops and livestock.
Its research has been mainly concerned with environmental development, plant
protection, crop production including both perennial and foodcrops as well
as forestry, rural socio-economic studies and animal production. The research
program on foodcrops has been generally less well carried out and its results
less widely disseminated than has been the case for perennial crops, especially
coffee. In December 1979, the Community of the Great Lakes (COL, a regional
grouping set up by Zaire, Rwanda, and Burundi) decided to establish a communal
research organization, the "Institut de Recherches Agronomiques et Zootechniques,"
which should group and coordinate individual research efforts in the three
countries. The present infrastructure will remain unchanged although it is
proposed to construct a central head office. External financing and technical
assistance would be sought.
1.33      Burundi Coffee Company (BCC) was created in 1975 and restructured
in 1980. The Burundi government owns 60% of the shares, the Central Bank
20% and OCIBU 20%. BCC is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry and handles all coffee exports, including the development of
new export markets for coffee and the representation of Burundi at the Inter-
national Coffee Organization (ICO). It is headed by a director general with
two assistants and has a total staff of 15. The major problems facing BCC are
difficult communications with the outside world and poor transportation
facilities to the nearest harbor, Dar-Es Salaam. Whereas the telecommunica-
tions problem is likely to be solved by the operation of a new satellite
system, there is no solution in sight for the transportation problem. BCC is
financed through taxes levied on coffee exports and appears financially sound.
1.34      Other parastatals in operation in the agricultural sector include
SOBECOV (para 1.37) responsible for foodcrop marketing; OTB responsible for
tea processing and marketing; COGERCO responsible for cotton processing and
marketing; SUPOBU responsible for the fisheries; SRDI (Societe Regionale de
Development de L'IMBO) responsible for the Imbo Irrigation Project; SRD-Rumonge
(Societe Regionale de Developpement de Rumonge) responsible for a palm tree
development project and ONB (Office National du Bois) recently created to
coordinate all wood related activities. It is expected that more Regional
Development Companies will be created as the Government seeks to decentralize
development activities (para 1.01).
Local Administration
1.35      Administratively, Burundi is divided into 8 provinces each of
which is divided into "arrondissements" (18 in total or 2-3 per province).
The arrondissements are further subdivided into "communes" (79 communes in
all); communes are subdivided into zones and "collines" (hills) which are
the smallest administrative units. The Ministry of the Interior has principal
responsibility for local administration and works through its appointed
officers: governors of provinces, "commissaires d'arrondissement," commune
administrators and zone chiefs. These officials coordinate the work of the
staff of the technical ministries who are appointed by most departments at



- 13 -
the province, arrondissement and commune levels. For the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Livestock an agronomist (some of them university trained) is in
charge of the agricultural staff of each province and he reports to the
Agronomy Department. At the communal level, an agricultural assistant coor-
dinates all activities and reports to the provincial agronomist. Field
assistants (moniteurs) operate at the hill level. The local administrative
system depends on limited central government budget support which supplements
communal budgets. The communal council is the main executive body at the
communal level but in practice it has only an advisory role. All rural
Burundi citizen are required to work one day a week, on Saturday, on projects
of national interest; these "travaux communautaires" (community labor) are
normally organized by the provincial, arrondissement, and communal authorities.
1.36      Under the new Government policy, Regional Development Companies,
such as that to be established under the proposed Project, would assume
responsibility for all rural development activities. The role of the local
administration is therefore expected to be progressively, but substantially,
modified.
D. Marketing, Processing and Prices
Foodcrops
1.37      About 5 to 10% of total foodcrop production is marketed, by private
traders, in traditional markets with very limited facilities. This small
percentage is a result of the limited quantity of surplus production, an
inadequate storage system, and the lack of appropriate marketing organization.
Prices are determined principally by supply and demand fluctuations. Post
harvest prices are depressed but rise just before the next harvest when
farmers are in need of seeds. Prices also vary regionally. In 1977, SOBECOV
(Societe Burundaise d'Entreposage et de Commercialisation des Vivres), a
parastatal marketing company, was created. Its purpose was to stabilize food
prices through the establishment of buffer stocks and to ensure a constant
food supply to the urban and rural populations. After three years of opera-
tion, SOBECOV has had very little impact and has experienced financial and
management difficulties. It is currently being restructured in an effort
to give it a new impetus. The Government has fostered the development of
cooperatives in a number of regions. These cooperatives purchase, stock and
sell at reasonable prices a limited proportion of the food crop production.
Some of the major problems faced by the cooperatives are lack of trained
personnel, insufficient working capital funds and inadequate or non-existent
infrastructure. An ILO (International Labor Organization) supported project
in the Ngozi province is successfully addressing some of these problems
through cooperative development.
Cash Crops and Coffee
1.38      Marketing of cash crops is regulated by Government and carried out
by private traders and parastatals. Coffee is by far the most important cash



- 14 -
crop. Most of the coffee cherries are processed 1/ in about 650 hand pulping
centers set up and maintained by OCIBU (para 1.31), and the parchment coffee
is sold by farmers directly to private traders licenced by OCIBU. For the
most part private traders are independent businessmen who have developed
strong economic ties with the local population. All transactions are in cash
but traders are known to lend money to farmers in the off-season. This
creates a dependency relationship that is difficult to break. The traders
do not pay any premium to farmers when they bring better processed coffee.
Parchment coffee is transported by the traders or private transporters to
Bujumbura and delivered to OCIBU for hulling, grading, packaging and sale
to BCC (para 1.33) at a set price. Only a small percentage (4% in 1978) of
coffee produced is processed in the washing stations financed under IDA
credits 147-BU and 593-BU (paras. 1.43 to 1.54).
Coffee Price Structure
1.39      Before the beginning of each coffee season, OCIBU proposes to
Governinent a price structure based on its forecast of the FOB export price,
establishing the various margins to be paid from the proceeds of coffee
sales to the producers, the exporters and OCIBU. The Council of Ministers, on
the basis of OCIBU-s proposal, decides on the final price structure. The
price structure for green coffee adopted for the 1980 coffee season is
shown below:
FBu/ton
Producers (green coffee equivalent)*           156,756
Transport to Bujumbura                           2,703
Traders  commission                              4,054      163,513
OCIBU Processing charges                        30,180
OCIBU Handling charges                           7,150      200,843
BCC charges (including transport
to Dar-Es-Salaam)               19,055
Export taxes and duties                         70,770      290,668
Total expected FOB Cost, Dar-Es-Salaam         290,668
* This structure is based on an assumed production of
20,000 tons and a green to parchment yield ratio of 74%.
1/ The following terminology is used in this report:  Cherry, the complete
fruit of the coffee tree, should be picked when it turns red, and normally
contains two beans. These beans are individually covered by membranes,
the silver-skins, and parchment-like shells, all covered by a mucilaginous
substance. Immediately surrounding this is the skin of the cherry. Skin
is removed in the pulping process, and mucilage during washing and fermenta-
tion.  Pulped coffee, when dried, is called parchment coffee.  The parchment
and silver-skins are removed in hulling factories, which produce clean or
green coffee. All coffee trading is in green coffee, which is eventually
roasted before consumption.



- 15 -
The price paid to producers is fixed each year for the next season and is
not adjusted according to final export prices. Likewise, fixed deductions
are made for trader's commission, costs of transport, hulling, bagging,
etc., and to cover OCIBU's normal operating overheads. Deductions, are also
made for a coffee promotion tax, a diversification tax (formerly paid to ICO
but now paid to a Government fund for agricultural development), a selection
tax to pay for improved coffee planting materials, and a tax to cover Govern-
ment's contribution to the cost of the ongoing Second Coffee Improvement
Project, and deductions for BCC's operating and financial costs. The balance
goes to Government, to be allocated between the Treasury and the Coffee
Stabilization Fund. The difference between the expected FOB price and the
FOB price that is actually obtained is credited to the Stabilization Fund, up
to a ceiling of FBu 300 million, any amount above this going to the Treasury.
The objective of the Fund is to provide a buffer to absorb the deficit which
could arise if actual FOB prices are lower than the prices expected when the
price structure for the year is decided. Since 1969, the Fund had positive
balances.
1.40      Average official producer prices and FOB export prices have been
the following over the last years, according to Central Bank Statistics:
FOB export
for Arabica,
Producer   Dar-Es-Salaam
1972                  34.0          85.67
1973                  38.0          94.78
1974                  45.0          89.71
1975                  39.0         100.37
1976                  65.0         235.18
1977                 112.0         478.79
1978                 112.0         240.71
Official producer prices when converted into green-coffee-equivalent prices
are approximately 50% of the expected FOB price, the final percentage depend-
ing on the actual prices obtained by BCC. However, producer prices are not
always enforced (except when sales are made to coffee washing stations) and it
is generally admitted that the private traders cheat on weight. Although in
the short term the present price level may appear as an adequate incentive to
farmers, prices are likely to become a major problem in the near future in the
face of high domestic inflation, projected declining international coffee
prices and increasing input costs. The problem of coffee prices to producers
will need to be discussed within the context of the overall sector dialogue
with the Government. Assurances were received at negotiations that IDA
and the Government would exchange views annually on Government policies
related to coffee production.
Livestock and Meat
1.41      Livestock is mostly sold in small rural markets on a cash basis
and prices are determined by supply and demand. A "transaction" tax of
FBu 200 per head is levied by the communes. About 50% of the cattle brought



- 16 -
to markets are sold depending on the season. Prices vary with markets and
exhibit seasonal fluctuations, but have about doubled in the last three
or four years. Meat is marketed in both the rural markets and in the central
Bujumbura market. Theoretically, prices are set by the Government but there
is no effective enforcement system. Slaughtering is supposedly carried
out at numerous rural stations where facilities are either non-existent or
rudimentary, but it also takes place in villages; there is little, if any,
health control. Meat prices tend to be high and beyond the reach of most of
the population.
Other Products
1.42      All tea processing is done in government built factories and the
tea exported through OTB, a parastatal, and all cotton processing and marketing
is carried out through COGERCO, also a parastatal (para. 1.34). Most of the
traditional fish production is dried on the sand and sold by private traders.
The impact of the parastatal fisheries development company financed under an
IDA credit (para. 1.04) is felt more on the extension and production than on
the marketing side. Most of the trade in wood and wood products is carried
out in Bujumbura. Charcoal is the most important wood-derived traded commodity
in value. No coherent pricing policy exists as yet, but the Government is
taking steps to elaborate such policy. Prices vary widely and have increased
sharply in recent years. Although in principle, the exploitation of the
natural forest and of government and communal plantations is strictly regulated,
and either a permit fee or a communal tax is payable, it is difficult to
enforce the regulations because of shortage of staff, the scattered nature of
the plantations and their poor conditions which generally do not justify
extensive control.
E. The First Two Coffee Improvement Projects
General
1.43      This chapter briefly reviews the implementation of the first two
IDA-financed coffee development projects and draws some lessons from their
experience. The analysis is mainly based on the Project Completion Report,
the Project Performance Audit Report and the Impact Evaluation Report for
the first project and on Supervision Reports and field reviews for the second
project which is not yet completed.
Burundi Arabica Coffee Improvement Project (Credit 147-BU)
1.44      The first coffee improvement project (Cr. 147-BU) was conceived by
the Government, identified and prepared by two different FAO/IBRD Cooperative
missions in 1966 and 1967 and appraised by an IDA mission in March 1968.
Credit 147-BU was signed in April 1969 and closed, fully disbursed in June
1976. The project underwent substantial changes from identification to
appraisal.



- 17 -
1.45      The principal objective of the project as appraised and implemented
was to increase production and improve coffee quality from about seven million
existing trees grown by about 44,000 smallholders on some 4,400 ha in Ngozi,
the main coffee producing region of Burundi. This was to be done over a
five-year period by: (a) strengthening the extension services; (b) distri-
buting fertilizers, other inputs and tools to participating farmers; (c)
constructing and operating four coffee washing stations and rehabilitating
80 communal handpulping centers; (d) implementing a fertilizer trial program
on farmers coffee plots; and (e) repairing about 350 small bridges and
culverts on access roads.
1.46      The project was to be implemented by a specialized department
created within OCIBU. Total project costs were estimated at US$2.1 million to
be financed by an IDA credit of US$1.8 million and Government contribution of
US$0.3 million. A Project Completion Report (PCR) on Credit 147-BU was issued
in September 1976 and a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) in March 1977.
An Impact Evaluation Report has been prepared. Although a great effort has
been made to evaluate thoroughly this project, the most striking fact is that
the OCR, the PPAR and the Evaluation Report all emphasize the impossibility of
drawing conclusive statements about the project's impact because much of the
analysis rests on a subjective review, for lack of data, of the present
situation rather than proven historical developments.
1.47      The main conclusions of the Project Completion Report (PCR) are that
(a) the lack of reliable agricultural data makes it impossible to assess the
project's impact on the volume of coffee production with any reasonable degree
of accuracy; (b) the improvement of coffee husbandry practices was implemented
along the lines indicated in the appraisal report; (c) the application of
fertilizers, if combined with high standards of coffee husbandry and provided
that prices of both fertilizers and coffee make it economîcally profitable, is
justifiable; (d) despite the great interest and useful analysis generated with
respect to the technology and the economics of the washing stations, their
economic profitability is still an open question; and (e) staffing and procure-
ment problems delayed and seriously hindered the normal implementation of the
project.
L.48      Other conclusions of the PCR may be summarized as follows:  Project
Implementation. The project started on schedule but the high turnover of
expatriate staff (three project managers during the life of the project) and
the uneven quality of their performance had a negative impact on, and delayed
project implementation. Some 60 handpulpers were repaired but were either
rarely or inadequately used as farmers were not motivated to improve coffee
quality under the prevailing fragmented marketing system involving hundreds
of small traders who pay no premium for better coffee (para 1.36). The
Washing Station component, however, produced a high proportion (75%) of its
throughput as fully washed with a higher hulling efficiency (80%) than for
traditionally processed parchment coffee (72%). Total actual project costs
were estimated to be nearly 20% higher than appraisal estimates. Government
financed more than 20% of project costs compared to a 16% appraisal estimate
and the credit was fully disbursed two years after the expected closing date
because of the late completion of the washing stations. Procurement procedures
were in conformity with Bank guidelines.



- 18 -
1.49      Organizational Aspects.  OCIBU was called upon to implement the
project because of its experience in the coffee subsector. A special project
department was set up within OCIBU for this exclusive purpose. The Minister
of Agriculture, as Chairman of OCIBU, maintained a consistent and keen
interest in project progress.
1.50      Project Impact.  Given the lack of reliable quantitative informa-
tion, it was thought meaningless to try to disentangle the effect that
various improved husbandry practices and fertilizers may have had on coffee
yields.  Incremental project production was, nevertheless, estimated at 500
tons green coffee/year, compared to 1,580 tons envisaged at appraisal.
Incremental income was estimated to be less than US$10 per farm household at
full development a figure that appears relatively low.  The PPAR generally
confirms the findings of the PCR and goes on to underline the fact that the
needs and weaknesses of the extension service were not treated in sufficient
depth in the supervision reports and that the experimental nature of the
project was not properly reflected during implementation. The Impact Evaluation
Report generally agrees with the conclusions of the PCR and PPAR but believes
more effort should have been made to use the washing stations as a nucleus for
cooperative development.
Second Coffee Improvement Project (Credit 593-BU)
1.51      The second coffee improvement project was prepared by Government
with assistance from the IBRD Regional Mission in East Africa (RMEA), approved
in November 1975 and is expected to be closed and fully disbursed by
September 30, 1981. The objective of this second project, a follow up of the
first one, was to support the development of smallholders coffee and foodcrop
production in Ngozi Province. Its components were (a) the provision of inputs
and the strengthening of extension services to improve coffee and foodcrop
cultivation; (b) the construction and operation of four washing stations;
(c) research and fields trials on coffee and foodcrop development; (d) the
construction or repair of drinking water sources, bridges and culverts;
(e) experimental rural development activities, including the improvement of
small livestock, training of draft animals, the use of water mills and the
establishment of farmers cooperatives; and (f) the provision of technical
assistance. The project was to be implemented by the same OCIBU specialized
department which implemented the first coffee project. Total project costs
were estimated at US$7.5 million to be financed by an IDA Credit of US$5.2
million. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development was to cofinance
US$1.2 million and Government participation was estimated at US$1.1 million.
Difficulties encountered in the design of the first project were taken into
account in the design of the second project.
1.52      Project Implementation.  Project activities started without any
delay under the same management team as for the first project. All the
provincial technical staff of the Ministry of Agriculture were integrated
into the project management team. Implementation of the project has been
affected by many problems, including (a) a high management turnover of
both expatriate and local staff; (b) lack of an adequate supply of construction
materials due to the difficulties of transporting goods from Dar-Es-Salaam;
(c) a weak and inefficient extension workforce as well as lack of senior



- 19 -
management follow-up in the area of foodcrop development; (d) lack of timely
availability of Government counterpart funds and the absence of an adequate
prefinancing mechanism for working capital needs; (e) lack of a Government
policy on inputs such as fertilizers which has created shortages of critical
moments because of Government import bans. The achievements of the project
to date include: (i) construction and better management of the washing
stations due to the recruitment of a competent technical assistant; operating
profit from the washing stations was about US$490,000 in 1979; (ii) a well-run
construction service which has been able to build coffee washing stations,
houses and repair roads at acceptable standards, but much below prevailing
market costs; (iii) the establishment and maintenance of coffee nurseries
throughout the project area.
1.53      Project Impact.  As in the case of the first coffee project, the lack
of a proper monitoring and evaluation system and, consequently, of reliable
data, makes it difficult to make a preliminary estimate of the project impact.
The single most visible impact attributable to the project is farmers growing
confidence in some washing stations. The foodcrop development activities
although improved during the last two years of project implementation have
been a failure due to a number of factors including the rapid turnover of
expatriate and local management, the difficulties associated with the introduc-
tion of new seeds in Ngozi, the project team's inexperience with food crop
development and the extension services failure to monitor farmers demonstra-
tion plots.
1.54      Detailed reviews of the first project and a preliminary review of
the second one underline a number of important lessons. They include:
(i) Data Base. Without a reliable data base and proper follow-up of project
activities, no assessment of project impact can be made and consequently
nothing can be learned about the suitability or otherwise of the technical
package proposed. (ii) Socio-Economic Environment. It is important to
understand the relationships between farmers, traders and extension workers in
the Project area and the factors that are likely to shape their behavior.
(iii) Management & Organization. The general shortage of trained manpower in
Burundi and the weakness of the extension services make it important to assess
the training needs of thé project staff and take appropriate measures to
satisfy them. It is also important to ensure staff continuity. Finally, the
technical package to be extended to the farmers must be within the understand-
ing of extension workers and they must be able to transmit it to the farmers.
(vi) Prices. Participation of the farmers and the success of many of the
proposed programs depend on appropriate prices being paid to farmers for their
coffee. The lack of a clear financial incentive may prevent strong farmer
cooperation. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
proposed Project through (a) provisions made for a monitoring and evaluation
system that will ensure adequate data collection (para.4.16); (b) the emphasis
put on training (para. 4.13) and the reduction of the Project's scope and
complexity (para. 1.03); (c) the criteria for the location of washing stations
(para. 4.08); and (d) provision for a periodic review of coffee prices to
producers (para. 1.40).



- 20 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Physical Characteristies
Location
2.01      The Proj2ct area is part of the natural region of the Kirimiro
over some 1,400 km  and is located in central Burundi on a plateau to the
east of the Nile-Zaire crest divide, and to the south of the Buyensi ecological
zone; it is under the administrative authority of the two provinces:
Gitega and Muramvya.  The natural region of the Kirimiro consists of 12
"communes", most of them in Gitega Province.  Six communes forming a well-
defined ecological region have been selected for Project activities: Gitega,
Mutaho, Giheta, Makebuko, Bitare (all in Gitega Province) and Nyabihanga
(in Muramvya Province). The town of Gitega, with 10,000 inhabitants, is
the major urban center within the Project area.
Topography
2.02      The altitude of the Project area ranges from 1,500 to 2,000 m,
averaging about 1,600 m. The area consists of a multitude of hills with
more or less intensely cultivated slopes separated by frequently swampy
and peaty flat valley bottoms through which a dense network of minor rivers
flows. About 7% of the total Project area is made of valley bottoms, with
little natural drainage. Soils are slightly flooded or saturated with water
throughout the rainy season. About 60% or more of the cultivated land has
slopes exceeding 10% and about 50% has sloped over 20%.
Soils and Erosion
2.03      There is presently no soil map of the Kirimiro region although
ISABU (para. 1.32) has carried out a soil survey and is in the process of
preparing the map. No data are available as the information has not yet
been organized. The soils are predominantly clayey ferrisols and ferralsols
derived from granites and micaschists. In the valley bottoms, soils are
more or less peaty and the potential for production is expected to be
satisfactory once adequately drained. On the slopes, the soils are deep
and well-drained.  In the absence of vegetative cover, the steep slopes
render the soils very susceptible to erosion but the extent of erosion in
cultivated plots is still limited. However, with continued cultivation, the
threat of erosion is substantial unless erosion control measures are taken.
The production potential of the soils on slopes ranges from average to good
but the very short fallow or continuous cultivation, and the absence of
organic or chemical fertilization, are leading to a loss of soil productivity.



- 21 -
Hydrography
2.04      The rivers and streams in the Project area join the Ruvubu and
the Ruvyironza rivers which are tributaries of the Nile and the Zaire rivers.
The Ruvyironza river cuts across the Project area from south to north and
empties into the Ruvubu river. The flows of the rivers vary with rainfall
throughout the year. During the dry season, the flat, wide valleys dry up
and are intensely cultivated.
Climate
2.05      The Project area has a tropical climate moderated by altitude,
which allows a wide range of crops to be grown in single or double cropping.
The rainy season extends approximately from September 15 to May 30, with six
consecutive months of rainfall ranging from 130 to 180 mm (November through
April) and two months averaging 80 mm (May, October). The dry season extends
from June to September.  Average yearly temperatures range from 20 0C to 23 C
depending mostly on altitude.
B. Socio-Cultural Aspects and Socio-Economic Infrastructure
Population
2.06      The total population of the Project area is about 320,000, repres-
enting approximately 80 of Burundi's total population; average density is
222 inhabitants per km . There are about 70,000 families averaging 4.6
persons, with 2.5 adult male equivalent workers per farm. Annual population
growth rate during the past decade has ranged from 2% to 2.5%. About 40% of
the total population is under 14 years of age. There are more females (52%)
than males (48%), due to migration of males (6% of total males) for employ-
ment outside the Project area either to Bujumbura or to settlements in the
Rusizi and Kumozo plains. These people move because they do not have access
to arable land due to the high population density. There are few villages as
most of the population of the Project area live in scattered farms.
Land Use and Land Tenure
2.07      At one time, the entire Project area was covered with tropical
forest which has been progressively cleared for crop production and pastures.
The present land use falls into several categories: land under cultivation,
under extended fallow, permanent pasture, swamps, forest and non-agricultural
land. According to a SOMEBU (para 1.02) survey based on aerial photo-
interpretation, the Project area includes about 97,000 ha of cultivable
land, of which about 73,000 ha are under cultivation. According to these
figures, which are only indicative, the average farm consists of about 1.0
ha of cultivated land whereas the available cultivable land averages 1.4 ha.



- 22 -
There seems to be, thus, still some scope for increasing the area under cul-
tivation on the average farm. Like everywhere else in Burundi, land tenure is
regulated by a combination of traditional land laws and modern regulations
(para 1.09).
Socio-cultural Aspects
2.08      Probably more than 95% of the population of the Project area is
engaged in agriculture. Each family occupies a self-contained homestead, the
rugo, on its plot of land, usually half-way on the hill slope between the
top of the hill and the valley bottom. The rugos are scattered over the
slopes and summits of the hills and seldom grouped to form a village. A
typical family usually farms several plots of land at different altitudes or
in different types of soil, which reduces the risk of crop failure.
2.09      The women s role is fundamental in two respects:  they contribute
substantially more time to farming of foodcrops than men and they carry most
of the burden of children's upbringing. Children usually help with the
women's work on the farm while men tend to concentrate on the cash crops.
Except for the 10% of holdings where they are heads of household, women have
little authority in decision making. The efficiency of extension work is
severely hampered by the imbalance between the women's decisive contribution
to agricultural production and their absence from the decision-making process.
2.10      The education system consists of 31 primary schools with 307
teachers and 10 secondary schools with 192 teachers in the Project area. A
total of about 10,000 children go to primary schools and about 3,000 go to
secondary schools. The school attendance rate (primary education) is about
16%, as compared to the national average of nearly 19%. There is no post-
primary vocational training in the Project area and there is a general shortage
of teachers and facilities for all kinds of schools, vocational or otherwise.
There is one hospital at Gitega, two health centers and on average two dispen-
saries per commune in the Project area. However, lack of funds result in
shortages of drugs, replacement parts for medical equipment, and lack of
vehicles to tour the health centers and dispensaries. Most of the health
facilities are ill-equipped and short of trained medical staff and social
workers and there is a general lack of funds for the purchase of equipment
and drugs. The diet varies with the agricultural seasons although crops such
as cassava, sweet potatoes and bananas are usually available all year.
Despite considerable cattle breeding, meat consumption is minimal and fish
is eaten by only a small portion of the population. The diet consists of
mainly starchy foods and is deficient in fats and proteins. A number of
common health problems is directly attributable to these deficiencies. The
average diet provides about 2,100 calories per day which is approximately the
assessed need for Burundi. Supply of fuelwood is not adequate (para. 1.20).



- 23 -
Water Supply
2.11      Potable water supply in the Project area is very limited, except
around parishes already supplied with piped water. The daily water consump-
tion per family of 4.6 persons have been estimated at 40 1 per day, which
is substantially below the average requirements of 120 1 for such a family
size. Fresh water is usually obtained from springs, of which about 60% have
been conditioned. Maintenance of these conditioned springs is minimal owing
to lack of communal funds. About 500 springs remain to be conditioned in
the Project area and 50% of the conditioned springs require reconditioning.
An FAO-UNICEF project (para. 2.28) has already conditioned about 70 springs
around Gitega. Improvement of water supply would be carried out under the
proposed Project (para. 3.13).
Roads
2.12      The Project area has a relatively dense network of about 150 km
of national, regional and provincial roads and about 900 km of secondary
roads and tracks. In general, the paved roads, which are maintained by
Government, are in good condition except during the rainy seasons. However,
many of the tracks maintained by the communes are in bad although passable
condition, particularly during the rainy seasons, owing to the lack of funds,
equipment and supplies; these tracks are either narrow, badly drained or too
steep. Another obstacle to road transport is the poor state of bridges, which
are often made of wood, which renders some of the tracks impassable during
the rainy seasons. Under the proposed Project, rural roads and bridges would
be improved at specific locations (para 3.12).
Rural Institutions
2.13      Administrative Structure.  The Provinces of Gitega and Muramvya
are headed each by a governor, the direct representative of the head of
state who coordinates all provincial activities. Each is administratively
divided into arrondissements, communes, zones and hills as described at
para 1.35. The six communes of the Project consist of 15 zones and 176 hills.
The governors budgets are funded by the central Government in Bujumbura.
More than one-third of the budgets of the communes is financed by subsidies or
grants from the central government. A very small portion (about 3%) of the
communal income is derived from agriculture or agriculture-related activities.
Only 1% of the communal expenditures are for the agricultural sector. All
communes and the provincial headquarters lack adequate transportation means
and are short of both manpower and equipment. Their most readily available
resources is peasant labor which they use for community work (para. 1.35).
2.14      Technical Services.  Administratively, the technical services at_
coordinated by the governor but technically they report to the appropriate
ministries. In principle, all the technical ministries should be represented



- 24 -
t the provincial level. In practice, due to an acute shortage of staff (para
i 27), only a few manage to appoint a representative at the province.  In the
Kirimiro, there is no Provincial Agronomist at post although there is a
Provincial Veterinarian. However, an Agricultural Adviser is attached to
provincial headquarters. There are about 160 agricultural extension workers
(1 for about 375 farm families) and about 35 veterinary extension staff in
the Project area. Extension workers have inadequate transportation means and
housing facilities and their training has been very limited. The Provincial
Veterinarian coordinates all livestock activities in the province and reports
to the Department of Livestock.  Livestock extension staff are still organized
at the arrondissement and not the commune level, but the posts at the former
level are vacant. At the zone level health technicians (infirmiers) control
the work of health assistants who run both the Primary Veterinary Centers and
Secondary Veterinary Centers. Nearly all of the veterinary personnel are
unqualified and have received little formal training. The Ministry of Rural
Development is represented only by a few agents in charge of servicing the
water installations in the provinces. In general, the lack of transportation
means makes coordination of provincial activities very difficult. The Ministry
of Social Affairs and Labor has a provincial director who coordinates all the
activities of the social centers but has no transportation means to work
properly.
2.15      Research.  Research activities in the province are limited only
to the work being carried out at Rumongwe experimental station. These focus
only on observation trials with foodcrop (beans, maize, soya, groundnuts,
cassava, etc.) varieties and on production of coffee seeds. Consequently,
there is little real research being carried out. Activities with livestock
relate only to manure production for the fields. The head of the station
is a graduate from ITAB (para. 1.27) supported by an unqualified extension
officer. An applied research program would be carried out under the proposed
Project (para. 3.21).
2.16      Cooperatives.  Cooperative organization in the Project area is
weak and involves only a few consumer cooperative societies set up by religious
organizations. The consumer cooperative society of Makebuko was established
in 1966 by the parish which supplied the building and equipment. Over 650
members have subscribed shares over FBu 400 in value. The objective of the
cooperative is to allow members to buy commodities at a reasonable price. The
cooperative in turn purchases farm products from members or from outside the
area, and may store them until the period of glut is over. It has made enough
profit to purchase two trucks. The cooperative society of Makebuko has led
to the establishment of other similar societies in the Project area. Three
similar cooperatives operate in Giheta. Production cooperative societies have
only just been started in the Project area but are very limited in number. A
major constraint facing cooperative development is the lack of adequate
financial resources. The Regional Development Company to be established under
the proposed Project is expected to assist in the development of production
cooperatives as a pilot activity (para. 3.14).



- 25 -
C. Development Projects in the Kirimiro Region
2.17       A number of development projects have been implemented or are still
in progress in the Kirimiro region. The main projects are summarized below
and described in more details at paras. 2.19 to 2.28:
(i) the FAO Fertilizer Program, financed by UNDP and Belgium,
was executed by FAO during the 1972-1979 period, and included
the setting up of fertilizer demonstration plots in food
crops, the training of extension staff in the use of fer-
tilizers and the extension of fertilizer use among small
holders;
(ii) the Integrated Rural Development Project of Gitega-Karuzi and
related sub-projects, financed by UNDP and UNICEF, started in
1979 and should continue until the end of 1981. These
projects aim at promoting socio-economic development around
Gitega, and include activities such as appropriate technology
development, crops storage, training and improvement of
living conditions of women;
(iii) the Seed Multiplication and Distribution Program, financed
by Belgium, started in mid 1977 and should be completed in
1982. The project includes the establishment of 13 seed
multiplication centers throughout Burundi and the distribu-
tion of improved seeds;
(iv) the Forestry Project (para 1.04) aims at establishing rural
nurseries in 30 communes for about 7,000 ha of plantations
(eucalyptus and pine), and would provide technical assistance
and training. Studies on Burundi's energy needs are also
included in the project. The Forestry Project is proceeding
satisfactorily, and its relationships with the proposed
Project in the Kirimiro are described at para. 3.10; and
(v)  the Small Scale Water Supply Project, financed by UNICEF and
Canadian bilateral aid (CIDA), to rehabilitate or construct
4,300 water points during the 1978-1984 period.
The FAO Fertilizer Program
2.18       The purpose of the FAO Fertilizer Program (the Program) was (i) to
carry out simple on-farm fertilizer trials, mainly on food crops, to determine
under what conditions fertilizer use would be economical, (ii) to create, or
extend the capacity of, institutions necessary for inputs distribution,
marketing and credit in the areas where extension services may have created



- 26 -
some demand for fertilizers, and (iii) to train extension staff. The Program
was considered as a pilot activity and placed under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. It was implemented over the period
1972-1979 in the provinces of Muramvya, Ngozi, Gitega and Muyinga; its
activities and results are summarized below.
2.19      Fertilizer Trials.  Most trials were conducted on beans (about
half of the demonstration plots), and most of the rest were carried out on
maize, cereals' cotton, potatoes and peas. The number of farmer's demon-
stration plots harvested each year increased from about 150 in 1972/73
to about 500 in 1977/78. The main conclusion from these trials relevant to
the proposed Project is that fertilizers, when properly applied, more than
double the yield of beans and have a significant impact on other food crop
yields. The trials also showed that, in general, the use of fertilizers
on food crops was financially viable at farm level.
2.20      Fertilizer Distribution, Marketing and Credit.  This part of the
Program was hampered by the lack of Government's clear policy on fertilizer
uses, which resulted in variable and insufficient levels of fertilizers
imports to satisfy demand. In 1978, about 5,000 farmers purchased a total of
130 tons of fertilizers at a price subsidized by about 50%, and this number
could have been significantly larger if more fertilizers had been available.
However, there are no data to indicate the extent of the excess demand which
remained unsatisfied, to identify the constraints to fertilizer use, and to
assess the price elasticity of demand. Systematic surveys would be carried
out under the proposed Project to gather and interpret such data, in order
to assist Government in defining a clear fertilizer policy (para 3.16).
Fertilizers were distributed and marketed through various channels including
the communal administration, a consumer cooperative in Gitega, parastatal
institutions such as OCIBU in the Ngozi area, and one local trader. Sales
by the communal administration and the Gitega cooperative were on credit.
The records available are not detailed enough to assess precisely the level
of credit recovery. Recovery of credit by the communal administration varied
between about 25% and 90% depending on the location. Less than 5% of the
credit by the Gitega cooperative was recovered. Sales by OCIBU and the local
trader were made on a cash-basis.
2.21      Training.  Training activities under the Program included field
visits for students in the agriculture program at the University of Burundi,
a course on fertilizer use for extension officers at the agricultural school
of Gihanga, and the training of about 100 extension agents per year. It is
estimated that about 9,000 farmers throughout Burundi have been exposed to
some training in the use of fertilizers under the FAO Fertilizer Program.
The Integrated Rural Development Project of Gitega-Karuzi
2.22      This project and related sub-projects, started in 1979 and extended
to the end of 1981, are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural
Development. They consist of very small pilot activities, under the
supervision of four expatriate staff. These pilot activities included:



- 27 -
(i) appropriate technology: grain conservation, water
collection and storage methods were tested; bins and
tanks were constructed in a small workshop and put for
sale to farmers; experimental corn shellers and grain
drying tables were also built and a few artisans
trained in this work;
(ii)  training of 9 extension workers and about 70 field
agents in rural development techniques;
(iii) the launching of a very modest cooperative program on
egg production and supply of fertilizers; and
(iv)  a social welfare program for women directed towards
the improvement of nutrition and hygiene in the home,
and the training of three women social workers and
five assistants.
2.23      The impact of the above actions is limited because of their small
size. Few preliminary results are available, because no reliable data base
was available at the start of the project and no monitoring and evaluation
system was set-up. It is expected that these actions would continue, albeit
ini a different organizational context, when the proposed Kirimiro Rural
Development Project is effective. The local staff employed under the various
above activities would be transferred to the Regional Development Company to
be responsible for the implementation of the proposed Project (para. 3.02).
Seed Multiplication and Distribution Program
2.24      This program is implemented under technical assistance from Belgian
Technical Cooperation (CTB). It is to be implemented over 5 years (1978-1982)
and is funded jointly by Belgium (FBu 15.4 million) and the Governnent of
Burundi from its investment budget (FBu 8.0 million). It provides for the
establishment of 13 seed multiplication centers throughout the country and
the distribution of improved seeds.
2.25      In the first year of the program, 9 centers were created or taken
over under CTB funding, and an additional 13 centers were established under
GOB-s investment budget. Although the 22 centers were funded separately, they
are under the single management of the Service of Selected Seeds (SSS) of the
Agronomy Department run by two expatriate staff. About 160 ha were cultivated
for variety trials and seed production; the main crops were beans, soya, pea ,
groundnuts, sorghum, wheat, rice, potatoes, sweet potatoes and cassava.
2.26      Two centers (Mutaho and Rutegama) are located in the Kirimiro
region. The Mutaho center has only just been established. At Rutegama,
training of extension workers is also carried out. As the program has only
just started in the Kirimiro region and trial results have been inconsistent,
no definitive data on the best verieties of crops for the region are yet
available. However, the experience gained indicates that factors limiting
yields are as follows, in decreasing order of importance: (a) insect attack,



- 28 -
irticularly on beans, peas and groundnuts; (b) lack of fertilizers or manure;
(:) lack of improved seeds. In many trials, the local varieties have yielded
as much as the so-called improved varieties. Under the proposed Project, the
RDC-Kirimiro would assume responsibility for these two centers.
The Small Scale Water Supply Project
2.27      The Small Scale Water Supply Project ("Projet Petites Sources")
is financed by UNICEF (US$358,000 to finance the salaries of one expatriate
coordinator and of local technicians) and CIDA (Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency) (US$301,000 to finance materials). The project started in the
end of 1978 and is scheduled to be completed in mid-1984. It aims at rehabil-
itating or developing 4,300 water springs all over the country, and to train
local staff for the maintenance of these springs. The project has started
well, and during the first 8 months of its operation, about 150 springs have
been constructed with local materials and labor provided free by the local
population. Under the proposed Project, about 180 springs would be developed
to reinforce the above Small Scale Water Supply Project in the Kirimiro region
(para 3.13).
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would aim at (i) assisting smallholders in the
Kirimiro region to improve the productivity of their holdings, and thereby
increase their food consumption and income, through the provision of inputs,
the strengthening of extension services and the implementation of appropriate
erosion control measures, (ii) improving rural living conditions by building
or maintaining water sources, equipping social centers and developing wood
resources to be used as fuelwood, building poles and timber, (iii) improving
the quality of Burundi's coffee by building washing stations. The institu-
tional environment for development would be strengthened through the creation
of a Regional Development Company. The Project would be implemented over a
six-year period and would include the following components:
(a) a program to provide extension services and agricultural
inputs for the development of coffee and foodcrop production;
(b) the construction of 6 coffee washing stations and of 12 hand-
pulping centers, and improvement of the operation and mainte-
nance of all hand-pulping centers;
(c) afforestation and erosion control;
(d) a selective improvement of the rural road network, including
the rehabilitation of bridges;
(e) the improvement of rural water supplies;



- 29 -
(f) pilot activities to promote agricultural production and improve
the living conditions of the rural population;
(g) studies, research and Project monitoring;
(h) staff training; and
(i)  the establishment of a Regional Development Company (RDC),
including the provision of technical assistance for Project
implementation.
3.02      The Regional Development Company (para. 3.24) would have principal
responsibility for Project implementation under the general supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAL). Research activities would be
carried out mainly by ISABU. The staff employed by MAL in the Project area
(para 2.15) would be absorbed by the RDC. The Project would be implemented on
the basis of Annual Work Programs prepared by the RDC, reviewed by its Board
of Directors and MAL and submitted to IDA for approval (para. 4.13).. Local
administrative authorities would participate in the Project decision making
process as members of the Board of the RDC. The Project description is
therefore to a certain extent indicative at this stage and provision is made
for modifications during Project implementation if warranted by experience.
B. Detailed Features
Extension Services
3.03      The objective of this component is to develop and strengthen the
existing extension services through on-the-job training of existing extension
workers and provision of continuous training through refresher courses.
The training aspect is dealt with in para. 3.23. The weakness of the existing
extension workforce is the result of many factors including lack of control
and discipline, lack of basic and continuous training, and lack of basic
data which reduces the effectiveness of extension work. The ratio of farmers
to extension workers in the Project area is satisfactory (about 375 farmers
per extension officer), and no new extension officer's position would be
created under the Project. The extension program to be extended to farmers
would include (i) the distribution of inputs such as seeds, seedlings, tools,
and fertilizers and pesticides, (ii) the setting up of a network of demon-
stration plots, (iii) the extension of coffee husbandry methods (spacing, mulch-
ing, pruning fertilizing, pest control, harvesting and drying), and (iv) the
extension of erosion control measures. Extension workers would also assist
farmers in pesticides application while enumerators would be responsible for
data collection within the framework of the sampling based monitoring system
in order to assess the progress and improvement of the programs proposed. They
would visit farmers on a systematic basis following the priorities of the exten-
sion program and their work plan would be closely supervised. Extension services
would provide assistance ultimately to about 70,000 families. The extension



- 30 -
program would be simple and would focus on improved seeds, fertilizer use
seeding and weeding techniques, spacing and disease and insect control. The
main investment items would include vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, housing,
offices, teaching and other materials as well as incremental operating costs
for the extension services.
Agricultural Inputs
3.04      Inputs would be supplied to farmers in order to (a) increase coffee
and foodcrop production by increasing the yields and (b) fight soil erosion.
The combination of bad pruning and the lack of agricultural inputs use have
contributed to declining yields whereas inadequate erosion control measures
have caused rapid land degradation on individual land holdings.  Government
policy on the import of inputs and their pricing to farmers has not been
consistent over the years. Government indicated at negotiations that fertilizers
were at present subsidized in the Kirimiro region, but that they intended to
progressively phase out the present 25% subsidy, if appropriate. Technical
and production aspects, and adoption rates of technical packages by farmers,
are discussed in Chapter V.
3.05      The RDC would purchase all inputs for sale at cost to farmers,
except for the pesticides which would be supplied free of charge and fer-
tilizers on which the current Government policy of 25% subsidy would be
followed subject to review during Project implementation in the context of the
Annual Work Programs. Seeds and cuttings of improved fooderop varieties would
be multiplied by the RDC at the three existing seed multiplication centers.
Fertilizers and pesticides would only be applied in coffee and in the main
foodcrops such as beans and maize.  Tools and equipment would include pruning
shears and saws for coffee and pesticide dusters for both coffee and foodcrops.
3.06      The Coffee Development program would consist of (a) the production
of about 1 million seedlings from the existing three nurseries in the Project
area; these would be distributed to farmers for expansion of plantation where
land is available and for replacement trees in existing plantations; (b) the
production and distribution of setaria (or other grass) rootstocks for the
planting of contour hedges. Research would be undertaken to determine the
most suitable grass or other perennial plant that would also be used for
mulching; and (c) the provision of fertilizers and pesticides, and sale of
hand tools to about 12,000 farmers. Inputs would be distributed by the exten-
sion workers. Farmers' spraying teams would be organized and, under the
supervision of extension workers, they would use the RDC's spraying equipment.
3.07      The Foodcrop Development Inputs would include fertilizers mainly
for maize and beans and improved seeds. Some of the criteria for seed selec-
tion would be (a) early maturity, (b) short cooking time because of the
scarcity of fuelwood, (c) disease and insect resistance and (d) increased
yield.  Several varieties have already been successfully tested over the
years by ISABU (para 1.32) and funds would be provided for additional research
(para. 3.21).  Root-stocks of tripsacum laxum would also be provided for
erosion control.



- 31 -
Construction and Management of Washing Stations
3.08      The purpose of the washing stations component would be to improve
the quality of processed coffee from semi-washed to fully washed, a grade
which fetches a higher price in international markets (para. 6.04). Although
there have been questions about the economic and financial justification of
the washing stations (para 1.47) recent experience under the on-going Ngozi
project indicates that with good management washing stations can be a profitable
proposition and improve coffee quality (para. 1.52). In addition to building
new stations, the Project would support the training of Barundi nationals at
all levels within the washing stations department of the RDC. A total of 6
new stations would be built. The main investment items would be warehouses,
drying racks, housing, furniture, and pulping machinery. In certain instances
where pollution could be a problem, the washing stations will be fitted with
recirculation systems.
Maintenance and Management of Hand-pulping Centers
3.09      The Project would seek to improve the quality of semi-washed coffee
produced by the farmers in existing hand pulping centers through better
management of those centers. In addition to training (para. 3.23), Project
activities would include a transfer of the maintenance services from OCIBU to
the RDC, their reorganization and provision of adequate transportation means
for a better supervision of the center-s operation. In addition to the twelve
hand-pulping centers which would be constructed under the Project, the main
investments would consist of a vehicle, bicycles, housing, a warehouse for
spare parts and a repair shop.
Afforestation and Erosion Control
3.10      The Forestry Program.  The main objective of this program would be
to provide fuelwood, poles and timber which are in very short supply in the
region and the country generally. Other forestry activities would include
the planting of bare mountain tops, the planting of shelter belts on grazing
land and the replanting of existing communal plantations and the planting of
private and individual woodlots. The program would include a tree planting
program on 3,000 ha of land, covering 2,000 ha of Project plantations (1,200
ha of protection plantations, 600 ha fuelwood and pole plantations, and 200
ha of timber plantations), the rehabilitation of 450 ha of communal planta-
tions, 300 ha of new communal fuelwood pole and woodlots and about 250 ha
of private woodlots. The program would only start in year 2 so as not to
overburden the extension staff and would be carried out by the forestry
service of the RDC under the control of an agronomist with forestry experience,
and is in line with the Government-s objective to create individual fuelwood
lots for farmers. Seedlings would be produced by the RDC and supplied to the
farmers at cost. The Project would utilize the nurseries of the on-going
forestry project where appropriate to avoid duplication (para. 2.18). The
major investment items would consist of housing, a pick-up truck, motorcycles,
fencing and planting materials, labor and other costs for the extension
services.



- 32 -
3.11      The Erosion Control Program would aim at controlling soil erosion
and soil degradation. The program would consist of the planting of anti-
erosion hedges on individual holdings, controlled burning and controlled
grazing on communal land and tree planting. Active farmers' participation
will be sought in planting contour hedges of useful grasses and perennial
leguminous plants. The main investment items would consist of fencing and
planting materials for the multiplication centers, transportation equipment,
and labor.
Rural Road Network Improvement
3.12      The road improvement component would be aimed at facilitating the
shipment of coffee from the washing stations by heavier trucks and would
concentrate on building key bridges, constructing access roads to newly
built washing stations and maintaining a limited number of frequently utilized
roads. Secondary roads maintenance would continue to be carried out by the
communes via "community labor" (para 1.35).  The Project would include finan-
cing for construction of about 9 km of new roads, maintenance of 100 km of
roads and building of about 25 small bridges to be identified by the RDC. The
major investment items would be materials, small tools and labor.
Water Supply
3.13      An objective of the Project would be to improve the maintenance
of the existing water supply scheme by training and supervising the fountain
assistants presently employed by Government, and to develop new springs and
wells. Financing would be provided for the construction of about 180 water
sources to be carried out by the RDC or subcontracted to UNICEF which is
currently implementing a similar program in Burundi. The main investment
items would be equipment materials, supplies and labor.
Pilot Activities
3.14      A number of pilot activities would be undertaken under the Project
to test on a small-scale the feasibility of development programs for which
clear technical packages have not so far been developed. Each of the pilot
activities would be proposed by the RDC and discussed with the Association in
the context of the Annual Work Programs. These pilot activities are expected
to include social and nutrition centers, livestock services, the development
of farmers cooperatives, the improvement of food crops storage and marketing,
and the development of selected swampy valley bottoms.
3.15      Under the Project, the RDC would absorb the Burundi staff of the
on-going UNDP/UNICEF projects (paras 2.25 and 2.26), recruit and train addi-
tional female social workers and continue a limited appropriate technology
program. The activities would relate to home improvement, hygiene and
nutrition.



- 33 -
Studies
3.16      Socio-Economic Study.  Reliable socio-economic data on the Project
area are not available. The study would include a summary of the existing data
and literature, and a socio-economic survey of the Project area population
which would (i) serve as a base to the Project Monitoring and Evaluation
System (para. 4.14), (iî) clarify farm production systems, including data such
as farm size, land tenure, distribution of farmer's plots, yields, crop
storage and losses, use of inputs, farm budgets, formal and informal credit,
and consumption, (iii) identify the perceived needs and priorities of the
rural population, and (iv) identify the main constraints to the development
of the population of the Project area. A representative sample of the rural
population (including both farmers and non-farmers) would be randomly selected
for the survey. A sub-sample would be monitored closely throughout Project
implementation to serve as a reference to evaluate the impact of the Project.
Data would be collected by enumerators selected among the rural population
under the supervision of the chief of the extension and training department
of the RDC.
3.17      Fooderops Marketing Study.  A study of the marketing of foodcrops
in the Project area would also be carried out by the RDC or by consultants.
This study would consist in summarizing in a coherent way the information
already existing in Burundi and in conducting appropriate surveys. The
detailed design of the study would be submitted to the Association for its
approval in the context of the Annual Work Programs.
3.18      Livestock Study.  Livestock development faces severe constraints
(para. 1.16) including the lack of a clearly defined Government livestock
policy. Given lack of data and confusion in several policy issues, a system-
atic analysis and review of the livestock subsector is urgently required. A
study of the livestock sector has been included in the Integrated Rural
Development Project/Ngozi III, for the financing of which Government has
requested IDA-s assistance. There are therefore no provisions made for this
study under the Kirimiro Project. The study would seek to help Government
establish a national development policy taking into account the different
potentials of the livestock carrying regions. The study would involve census
taking of livestock population nationwide to obtain a more realistic picture
of ownership in the country, a socio-economic study of farmers attitudes
towards livestock and exploration of possible ways to influence it, a compara-
tive study of the different regions raising livestock including their carrying
capacity, their production systems, the theoretical and de facto patterns of
land utilization between livestock and agriculture and the need for regional
specialization and a study of livestock marketing and proposals for a rationali-
zation of livestock production, including a destocking policy and ways to
implement it.
3.19      Other Studies.  Other studies might be necessary as the Project is
implemented, and funds have been included under the proposed credit for this
purpose. Also, funds have been included for the preparation of future projects
related to rural development.



- 34 -
3.20      Assurances were received at credit negotiations that for all
studies and project preparation work, the terms of reference and proposed
contracts with consultants would be submitted to the Association for
approval.
Research
3.21      The Project would support in coordination with the Ngozi III Project
(paras 1.04, 3.18) the ISABU coffee and foodcrop research program and would
mainly focus on (a) testing of coffee varieties for yield improvement and
resistance to pest and diseases with special emphasis would be put on small
size coffee trees, (b) fertilizer field trials on coffee and food crops,
(c) coffee husbandry, specifically mulching, (d) control of fungus diseases,
correlation between soil types and yields in coffee plantations, (e) mixed
food crop systems, (f) integration of cropping and livestock activities,
and (g) adaptation of food crop varieties in the area. The research staff
would lay down pre-production trials in farmers' plots to test extension
themes and packages. It would coordinate with the monitoring and evaluation
unit on the collection of data on the farming situation in the Project area.
It would be responsible for designing the seed multiplication program and its
implementation (para 4.05), emphasis would be put at the beginning of the
Project on the most important foodcrops such as beans, maize, cassava and
sweet potatoes.  The research staff would also supervise the collection
and quality control of seeds of improved varieties from demonstration plots
laid down in farmers' fields. Proposals would be made to ISABU by the RDC
concerning the major orientations of research needs and activities and sub-
mitted to IDA for approval at the beginning of each year in the Annual Work
Programs.
Project Monitoring
3.22      Project monitoring would be done on the basis of the socio-economic
study described at para 3.16. The monitoring system would be designed by the
RDC manager and the heads of the RDC's main departments. Further details on
Project monitoring are at para. 4.14.
Staff Training
3.23      A training program would be carried out to upgrade the existing
extension staff, to train the staff of the washing stations, to improve the
maintenance and supervision of the hand pulping centers, and generally, to
establish and strengthen the management capability of the RDC. The types of
training to be provided will include (a) initial orientation at induction of
new staff, (b) phased basic training for existing or new staff in skills and
knowledge required for new technology or procedures, and (c) refresher training
and in-service training for existing staff. Training would also be provided
for supervisory staff and, in a number of instances, training in other coun-
tries would be done through fellowships and study tours. The training of
field extension workers and that of the washing stations services would
receive a high priority. The training of the RDC's 160 extension workers
would be completed along with 14 supervisory level positions and about 60
operating personnel for the washing stations. Extension staff training would



- 35 -
be the responsibility of an internationally recruited training and extension
specialist and washing stations personnel training would be done by the
manager in collaboration with the training specialist. The main investment
items would include a training center, teaching material, housing, a vehicle,
and labor. Fellowships for training outside the country would also be
financed.
Regional Development Company (RDC) and Technical Assistance
3.24      The RDC-Kirimiro was created by Decree No. 100/165 of November 20,
1980 to carry out rural development activities in the Kirimiro region. It
reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and would have primary
responsibility for Project implementation. The RDC manager was appointed in
mid-1980 to carry out the activities under the Project Preparation Facility
(para. 3.30). He would be assisted by a team of internationally recruited
technical assistants who would perform the tasks for which the required
expertise is not locally available, and who would train the RDC's personnel.
It is expected that the expatriate personnel to be employed would be provided
by a firm specializing in the management of rural development projects, and
would include the deputy manager of the RDC for 66 months, and technical
assistants to head the RDC-s Accounting and Finance Department (66 months),
the Rural Development Department (54 months), the Construction Department (54
months) and the Technical Department (54 months). Assurances to this effect
were received at credit negotiations. Government is in the process of
selecting the Project's technical assistance team, and the detailed composition
of this team is expected to be finalized shortly. Assurances were received
at negotiations that the terns of reference, qualifications, experience and
condition of employment of all internationally recruited personnel and consul-
tants would be submitted to the Association for its approval. More details on
the RDC are given in Chapter IV.
C. Project Costs
3.25      Total Project costs are estimated at about FBu 1,927 million
(IJS$21.4 million), of which about FBu 1,291 million (US$14.3 million) or 67%
represent foreign exchange costs. Details are summarized in the following
table.



- 36 -
Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  F. Exch.  Cost
-----FBu million-----  -----US$ million-----         (%)      (%)
Regional Develop-
ment Cy.             157.6   280.1   437.7   1.8        3.1       4.9      65        32
Coffee Processing    83.8    98.4   182.2   0.9          1.1       2.0      54        13
Water Supply            5.5      8.7    14.2   0.1       0.1       0.2      61         1
Rural Roads            12.2    32.9    45.1   0.1        0.4       0.5      73         3
Afforestation-
Erosion Control    132.2        7.0   139.2   1.4       0.1       1.5       5        10
Extension Services   11.6    43.7    55.3   0.1          0.5       0.6      79         4
Farm Inputs             5.4   102.5   107.9   0.1        1.1       1.2      95         8
Research, Training,
Studies               18.2    72.7    90.9   0.2        0.8       1.0      80         6
Technical
Assistance              -    211.8   211.8    -         2.4       2.4    100         16
Pilot Projects         27.0    63.0    90.0   0.3        0.7       1.0      70         6
Audits                   -      10.0    10.0    -        0.1       0.1    100          1
TOTAL BASE COST       453.5   930.8 1,384.3   5.0    10.4         15.4      67       100
Physical
Contingencies         43.0    87.3   130.3   0.4        1.0       1.4      67        10
Price
Contingencies        136.2   276.5   412.7   1.5        3.1       4.6      67        30
TOTAL COST            603.4 1,223.9 1,927.3   6.9    14.5         21.4      67       140
The above costs are incremental and do not include salaries for the existing
extension work force (about FBu 20 million annually) which are currently paid
for by the Government and would continue to be paid for under the Project. It
includes however all RDC's costs since its establishment represents an invest-
ment cost. With respect to the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, only the
incremental requirements from year to year have been included as they represent
an investment cost of the Project. Project costs were estimated as of June
30, 1981. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to reflect general
uncertainty about the detailed scope of Project investments. Price contingen-
cies were calculated on a cumulative basis. Local costs price contingencies
were taken at 15% for 1981, 12% for 1982, 1983 and 1984, and 10% for 1985 and
1986. Contingencies for foreign exchange costs were applied at a rate of 9%
in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% in 1983, 6.7% in 1984 and 6.5% in 1985 and 1986.
Taxes and duties included in Project costs are negligible since virtually all
items would be exempt from taxes and duties. Details of Project costs are
summarized in Table 1.



- 37 -
D. Financing
3.26      The sources of funds to finance the Project are summarized below:
FBU             US$
(million)       (million)        %
Government                    190            2.1          10
IDA                         1,737           19.3          90
Total               1,927           21.4         100
3.27      The proposed IDA credit of US$19.3 million equivalent would be on
standard terms to Government. The proceeds of the credit and Government's
contribution to the financing of the Project would be channeled to the RDC
in the form of grants. Regarding the provision of funds to pre-
finance the Project costs and to meet the RDC's seasonal credit needs, the
following arrangements would be made: (i) Government counterpart funds would
be made available to the RDC on a quarterly basis. Each quarterly installment
would represent one-fourth of the yearly estimated contribution and would be
deposited in the RDC Central Bank account no later than the end of the first
month of the quarter, and (ii) the RDC would enter into an agreement with
CAMOFI (para. 1.28), a parastatal finance company, to provide it with short-
term credit with the Government's guarantee.  This short-term credit would
cover working capital requirements for Project implementation and for the
purchase of coffee from farmers at the washing stations. Assurances on the
above were received at credit negotiations. Conditions to the effectiveness
of the credit would be that (i) the first installment of Government counterpart
funds has been deposited in the RDC's Central Bank account, and that (ii) the
agreement between the RDC and CAMOFI has been signed.
3.28      Government would ensure that the recurrent annual needs of the RDC
for funds and foreign exchange to purchase fertilizers and chemicals are met.
These needs would be assessed in the Annual Work Programs, and are expected to
amount to the foreign exchange equivalent of about FBu 5 million in 1983,
increasing to about FBu 45 million in 1986 (in 1981 prices). Assurances to
the above were received at credit negotiations.
E. Procurement
3.29      For the supply of fertilizers and chemicals (about US$1.4 million
including contingencies), individual contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Most contracts for materials, tools, vehicles and equipment (about



- 38 -
US$1.5 million) would be awarded following international competitive bidding
procedures. To facilitate the maintenance of the equipment to be installed in
the coffee washing stations, it would be advisable to purchase the same type
of equipment that is already installed in the existing washing stations in the
Ngozi area. The equipment to be procured under the Project would cost about
US$250,000 and would be purchased directly from existing suppliers. Individual
contracts costing less than US$100,000 would be awarded following Government
procurement procedures which were examined at appraisal and found satisfactory,
with the provision that quotations would be sought from all suppliers repre-
sented in Burundi and offering adequate guarantees of service and supply of
parts. Construction of staff housing, training facilities, offices, warehouses,
roads and bridges (about US$4.0 million) would be done by force account.
Performance of these tasks by the ongoing Ngozi Project's construction depart-
ment has been satisfactory at a cost and execution time consistently and
considerably lower than would have been the case with the use of the local
private construction industry. Implementation of the water supply component
(US$0.3) may be carried out by UNICEF through its team which is implementing a
similar project nationwide, or otherwise would be carried out on force-account
by the RDC, because local and international contractors would not be interested
by this type of works, because of their small size, and remote and scattered
location. Assurances as to the above were received at negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.30      Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed over six years
on the following basis:
Amount
Allocated
(SDR million)
(1)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of          )
local expenditures for incremental inputs,    )
including fertilizers and chemicals.             )
(2)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of          )
local expenditures for equipment and vehicles.)
(3)  90% of total expenditures for civil works        )
and infrastructure, including buildings,         )
coffee washing stations, handpulping centers, )  to be allocated
water supply, rural roads, afforestation         )  according to
and erosion control.                             )  Annual Work
Programs
(4)  (a) 40% of total expenditures for                )
salaries and allowances of RDC staff.            )
(b) 90% of total RDC operating costs,            )
excluding salaries and allowances                )
(5) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local )
expenditures for technical assistance.           )



- 39 -
Amoant
Allocated
(SDR million)
(6)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of           )
local expenditures for studies, training and )
research.                                        )
(7) 90% of total expenditures for pilot projects )
(8)  100% of total expenditures and 90% local          )
expenditures for studies to prepare rural        )
development projects.                            )    260,000    (US$300,000)
(9)  Refunding of principal of advance for             )
Project preparation.                             )    310,000    (US$360,000)
(10)  Unallocated                                       ) 15,630,000 (US$18,640,000)
TOTAL                     16,200,000 (US$19,300,000)
Disbursements against (1), (2), (5) and (8) would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (3), (4), (6) and (7) would be made against statemrents
of expenditures certified by the RDC director and the administrative and
finance manager for local expenditures and against full documentation for
foreign exchange costs. A full documentation would be retained by the RDC and
made available to IDA for inspection in the course of normal Project supervision.
An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3. Assurances
were received at negotiations that all expenditures would be made in accordance
with the Annual Work Programs (para. 4.13).
3.31      An advance of USS360,000 on the Credit under the Project Preparation
Facility was approved in July, 1980 to finance the initial costs of establish-
ing the RDC, including buildings, vehicles, local staff salaries and technical
assistance. This advance would be refunded out of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit. Expenditures incurred after the date on which the Project is approved
by the Association-s Executive Directors would be eligible for reimbursement
as set up in para. 3.30.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.32      The RDC would maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
all Project activities. These accounts and the statements of expenditurc~s
would be audited separately by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
auditors would specifically review and comment on the procedures used for
control of disbursements against statements of expenditure. The audited
accounts would be submitted to the Association within six months of the end
of each fiscal year. Assurances were received to that effect at negotiations.



- 40 -
H. Environmental Impact
Soil Conservation
3.33      The rapid deforestation of the Project area represents a serious
threat to its ecological balance, whereas soil erosion, increasing with the
felling of trees, decreases soil fertility. The reafforestation and erosion
control component would assist the Government-s efforts to control this
process of degradation by providing erosion control measures.
Water Pollution
3.34      Indiscriminate disposal of the effluent from coffee washing stations
may cause considerable water pollution to the detriment of domestic and agri-
cultural usage. Although the Government has not yet proposed or enacted any
legislation with regard to water conservation both quantitatively and qualita-
tively, the Project would provide suitable water recirculation/disposal
systems coffee washing stations in those instances where the return of coffee
factory effluent to the rivers would cause a significant level of pollution.
It is not expected that significant pollution would arise from the use of
fertilizers and pesticides.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Staffing
General
4.01      This chapter reviews the overall organization and management of
the RDC and the different Project components. In an effort to provide for a
more integrated and flexible approach to rural development, the Government has
decided that one of the main objectives of the third Five-Year development
plan (1978-1982) would be the restructuring of the rural sector. In contrast
to the first two five-year plans which concentrated on the development of cash
crops, the third plan has more diversified objectives which include food crop
development, reafforestation and erosion control. The programs to achieve
these objectives are to be carried out by newly created Regional Development
Companies, which would ultimately become financially self-sufficient. Govern-
ment would be their sole equity holder. Their main function would be to
become gradually responsible for all rural development related activities
including the delivery of agricultural inputs and the implementation of
specific projects financed either by the Government or by external donors.
To date, four RDCs have already been created but all of them either do not
necessarily implement integrated rural development schemes or work on a
regional basis. This reflects the still evolving nature of the RDC concept
and the uncertainties still surrounding the scope of their activities and
their relations with existing local and national administrative units. Like
many other parastatals in Burundi, some of them are experiencing serious
financial and management problems.



- 41 -
4.02      In line wi-h tbiis policy, the Government published in November, 1980
the decree establishing the Kirimiro Regional Development Company (Decree No.
100/165), which would have principal responsibility for Project implementation
under the general supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
Its equity is provided by an initial Government grant. The Regional Develop-
ment Company is essentially a public service institution and its commercially
oriented activities are expected to be very limited in scope. Its investment
and operating funds would therefore mainly be derived from Government grants.
It is managed and controlled by (a) the Board of Directors, (b) the Management
Committee and (c) two controllers appointed by the Minister of Finance. The
Board of Directors would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture or his
representative and would include five other Ministers or their representatives
(Planning, Economy and Finance, Social Affairs, Trade and Industry, Rural
Development), and the Governors of the Gitega and Muramvya Provinces. The
Management Committee would be made up of the RDC Manager and four other RDC
employees to be approved by the Board. The responsibilities of the Board
would be: (i) RDC policy making, (ii) review and approval of the RDC Annual
Work Programs and annual investment and operating budgets and (iii) .review and
control of current and past performance. The Board of Directors would also be
responsible for ensuring that Government development policies are implemented
through the RDC, and would meet at least four times a year. The RDC manager
would participate in the meetings of the Board of Directors on a consultative
basis.
4.03      Responsibility for Project implementation would be vested in the
RDC manager. The RDC is headed by a Burundi national who was appointed in
June, 1980. The RDC would consist of the following departments: the Account-
ing and Finance Department, the Rural Development Department, the Construction
Department and the Technical Department (see Chart 3). These departments
would be headed by internationally recruited technical assistants (para. 3.24)
working closely with key Barundi staff. The Barundi staff would gradually
assume management responsibilities and replace the technical assistants. In
addition a research and studies section would be under the direct supervision
of the RDC manager.
4.04      Staffing.  To insure satisfactory Project implementation, it would
be important to have sufficient number of Barundi staff hired in addition to
the technical assistance team. Senior and mid-level staff required for
Project activities would include 17 for the RDC headquarters, 24 for the
washing stations, and 160 for the extension services. Under the statutes of
existing RDC's, all key national personnel are appointed by the Chief of State
based on proposals from the Minister of Agriculture and this applies to the
RDC-Kirimiro. The terms of reference of all key Barundi personnel (RDC
manager and key officers in each department) were discussed at negotiations
and assurances were received that IDA would be consulted on appointments
to the position of (i) RDC manager, (ii) chief accountant, and (iii) deputy
manager of the Rural Development Department. To ensure management continuity,
assurances were received that all key positions would be staffed at all times
during the life of the Project. The appointment of staff to fill the above
three positions would be a condition of credit effectiveness. In order to
alleviate problems of higher staff turnover which are frequent in Burundi,
Government gave assurances at negotiations that it would cause the RDC to
establish a compensation plan to offer adequate incentives to its staff, in
particular by providing for merit allowances.



- 42 -
B. Management of Project Components
4.05      Agricultural and extension services.  The provision of agricultural
inputs and extension services would be the responsibility of the RDC's rural
development department headed by an internationally recruited extension and
training specialist assisted by a Barundi training officer and a Barundi rural
development officer. All the extension work force of about 160 now working
in the Project area would be absorbed by the RDC. Inputs would be imported by
the RDC procurement unit and distributed to farmers by extension agents.
Extension activities would involve principally advice to, and training of
farmers. Extension workers at the "hill" level (moniteurs) would visit farmers
grouped in teams within his sector for practical training sessions. Extension
workers at the "commune" level would coordinate all extension activities at
their level and report directly to the "agronome d'arrondissement" who in turn
would report to RDC headquarters. Improved seeds would be produced at the
RDC's three seed multiplication centers. Coffee tree seedlings would be
produced in nurseries operated by extension workers supervised by the RDC.
4.06      Construction and Management of Washing Stations.  Washing stations
would be built by the RDC's construction department. They would be managed
and operated by Barundi washing station personnel supervised and supported at
the RDC headquarters level by an internationally recruited technical manager,
a Barundi technical officer and two Barundi assistants, one for administrative,
the other for technical matters. Spare parts would be procured and managed at
the RDC headquarters. A central repair and maintenance team would be respon-
sible for all the stations. Among the technical assistant's important respon-
sibilities would be training of key Barundi staff (para. 3.23). A nationwide
technical committee would be set up to define technical operating norms and
monitor compliance to them by the RDC. This committee would be made of
representatives from OCIBU, BCC, and the RDC and would report to the RDC's
Board of Directors. Assurances to this effect were received at negotiations.
4.07      Maintenance of Handpulping Centers.  Responsibility for maintenance
of handpulping centers would be transferred from OCIBU to the RDC and would be
supervised by the expatriate technical manager and the corresponding key
Barundi staff. There would be one provincial technician responsible for
overall program supervision. He would be provided with a pick-up truck, a
driver-mechanic and a centralized parts warehouse. He would supervise one
assistant per commune or every two communes, who would control the work of one
agent per handpulping center hired for the four months of the coffee harvest-
ing season.
4.08      Reafforestation and Erosion Control.  The reafforestation and
erosion control program would be implemented by the rural development depart-
ment of the RDC under the supervision of the extension and training specialist
working closely with the other expatriate agronomist.
4.09      The Rural Road Network would be built and maintained by the RDCs
construction department.



- 43 -
4.L0      Research would be carried out mainly by ISABU under an agreement
to be entered into between the RDC and ISABU, reviewed by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, and submitted to IDA for approval in the Annual
Work Programs (para. 3.21).
4.11      Training programs would be prepared by the RDC manager, assisted
by the RDC staff as appropriate, as part of the Annual Work Programs to be
reviewed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and submitted to IDA for
approval. The main responsibility for carrying out the training program would
rest with the technical assistance team under the overall supervision of the
RDC manager.
4.12      Local Authorities would provide their contribution to decision
making on Project activities through their participation in the RDC's Board of
Directors. Coordination with other projects in the area would be done by the
RDC management team of technical assistants and key Barundi staff who would be
part of the Management Committee (para. 4.02). The Committee would report any
coordinating problems to the Board of Directors which would take appropriate
action or, if necessary, refer the matter to the Minister of Agriculture. The
RDC management would ensure coordination and contacts with other Government
institutions as appropriate, including in particular ISABU and OCIBU.
Annual Work Programs
4.13      The main objectives of Annual Work Programs would be (i) to facilitate
a full annual review of Project implementation progress by both the Government
and IDA, (ii) to make possible adjustments and/or modifications as experience
is gained, and (iii) to serve as a planning, implementation and monitoring
tool. Work Programs would be submitted to the RDC's Board of Directors for
discussion and review, to IDA for its comments, to the Ministry of Agriculture
for comments and finally to IDA for review and approval. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Annual Work Programs and budgets would be
submitted to IDA for its review no later than June 15 of the year preceding
the year of the work program and budget, and for its approval promptly after
each resolution of the RDC's Board of Directors adopting such Annual Work
Program. IDA's approval of the Annual Work Program would be a condition of
disbursement for the activities undertaken during that year. The submission
of the first Work Program covering the period of September 1981 to December
1982 would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14      Monitoring and evaluation would focus on (a) extension activities at
the field level, (b) input procurement, production and distribution at the RDC
level and (c) other activities such as washing stations management, civil
works, and training. Monitoring and evaluation of all agricultural activi-
ties would be an integral part of the extension programs to be carried out.
The monitoring and evaluation unit including the RDC manager, the expatriate
agronomist, and the expatriate extension and training specialist, would be set
up to design a form for data collection by extension workers and to process
the collected data. A Barundi agronomist would be employed as coordinator of
the monitoring and evaluation efforts at the RDC and would process the forms



- 44 -
received from the field. The commune agronomist, with the assistance of the
zone agronomist, would be responsible for coordination at field level. At the
start of Project activities, a basic sampling survey would be made in close
collaboration with the Ngozi Project management team to determine the initial
level and scope of agricultural activities. Monitoring and evaluation of RDC
level activities would be done through regular progress reports issued by the
department heads concerned. Assurances were received at negotiations
that consolidated semi-annual and annual Project Progress Reports would be
prepared and submitted to IDA no later than three months following the end of
the period covered by each report. Key indicators to be emphasized in such
reports would include, for agricultural activities, quantities and values
of inputs produced or procured and distributed, number of demonstration plots,
yields for major crops, coffee production, visits by extension workers,
numbers of farmers contacted and an estimation of their adoption of the tech-
nical package, census of coffee tree population; for construction activities,
it would include results achieved as compared to objectives, for erosion
control, length of grass hedges planted; for the washing stations, the number
of those built and in operation along with the operating results. Funds are
provided for consultancy services to review the monitoring and evaluation
system depending on the performance of the technical assistance team.
Project Completion Report
4.15      The RDC would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) no later
than six months after the Project closing date. The PCR would summarize the
Project performance, evaluate its successes and problems and underline lessons
to be taken into account in the future design and implementation of similar
projects. Assurances were received on this at negotiations.
V. TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
Agricultural Production
5.01      Given the limited know-how and resources of the farmers in the
Project area, the technical improvements proposed under the Project would be
integrated into, and seek to strengthen, the traditional farming system.
Specific activities would include the provision of improved seeds and cut-
tings, fertilizers, and the training of farmers. Three seed multiplication
centers of about 10 hectares would be operated. The centers would produce
improved seeds of maize, beans and sorghum and conduct trials. About 500
demonstration plots would be set up in the six communes covered by the Project,
not only to train and educate farmers but also to produce cuttings of improved
varieties of cassava and sweet potatoes. The plots would be located on the
lots of the more progressive farmers. In collaboration with ISABU, an avocado
tree nursery would be set up. Farmers would be encouraged to rearrange the
pattern of existing banana stands and to keep from expanding them because of
their negative impact on food production.  In the case of beans, in row and
drill seeding would be shown to farmers based on results obtained by ISABU.
It is expected that by Project year 10, about 35% of the Project area's
farmers will have adopted improved farming techniques for foodcrops and
coffee.



- 45 -
5.02      A farm of 0.70 ha has been used to illustrate the likely impact
of the recommended improved husbandry techniques for foodcrops and coffee.
Farm models and budgets are shown at Table 6. Yields were estimated on
the basis of the results of the FAO fertilizer program (para. 2.19) which
was conducted over several years on farmers plots, discounted to reflect
the lower yields which are expected in a real farming situation. The yields
shown below would be obtained by the Project area farmers who adopt improved
farming practices and use fertilizers and pesticides. These yields represent
averages, and actual yields are expected to vary between farmers and from year
to year. The yields of the foodcrops not mentioned in the table (sorghum,
taro) are expected to remain unchanged.
Yield Assumptions
(kg/ha)
----After 10 Years----
Without          With
Present         Project         Project
Beans                      650             620           1,000
Maize                      800              760          1,300
Cassava                  4,000           3,800           5,000
Sweet Potato             5,000           4,750           6,500
Groundnuts                  600             570             750
Coffee                     432             390             606
5.03      After ten years, the production levels would be the following,
assuming an overall adoption rate of 35% for foodcrops and coffee:
Project Area Production
(tons)
---------After 10 Years---------
Without       With
Present      Project      Project      Increase
Beans                16,800         16,100       18,600         15%
Maize                 5,600          5,300        6,900         30%
Cassava              29,400         27,900       32,500         17%
Sweet Potato         29,700         28,200       33,400         18%
Groundnuts              840            800          890         11%
Total Foodcrops      82,340         78,300       92,290         18%
Coffee                1,360          1,230        1,600         30%
Washing Stations and Handpulping Centers
5.04      To improve the quality of processed coffee, six washing stations
would be built with the same technical characteristics as those built under
the ongoing Ngozi Il Project. Each station would have a reception house and
cherry sorting facilities, a three-disc pulper, pre-grader and a grader,



- 46 -
fermentation tanks washing and grading channels, soaking tanks, 30 skin-drying
and 150 sun-drying tables, storage facilities and equipment to measure coffee
humidity. The nominal production capacity of each station would be 180 tons
of parchment coffee per season. Each station would process coffee produced
within a six to seven km radius from its location. In their first year of
operation, stations would have about 50% of the nominal throughput; this
would rise to 75% in the second year and reach about 100% in the third year.
It is estimated that the cherry to parchment ratio would be 4.9 and the
green to parchment ratio 81% as compared to about 6 and 72-75% estimated
under present processing methods. A full development in Project year 6, the
six washing stations are expected to handle about 1,000 tons of parchment
coffee each season, which represents about 60% of the total coffee production
of the Project area.
5.05      Twelve hand pulping centers with each an average throughput of 20
tons of parchment per season would be constructed, and the management and
maintenance of the existing centers would be improved (para. 4.07). Expected
results based on actual experience would be an increase in the proportion of
3A grade coffee produced from 45 to 56%, and a corresponding decrease in the
quantities of grade 3B and rejects from 47% and 8% to 25% and 5% respectively
based an average throughput of 20 tons per center per season. There would
also be an improvement in the cherry/parchment ratio that is difficult to
quantify.
Reafforestation and Erosion Control
5.06      About 3,500 ha would be planted with trees including crestline
plantations, shelter belts on grazing land, conversion of individual fuel
wood lots and communal plantations. Pines would be planted on better soils
and cullatris robusta on the shallowest and rockiest sites. This program
would entail the gradual creation of nurseries that would produc5 about 2,000
plants per annum.  Expected mean annual incremen s would be 12 m /ha for
fuelwood, pole and timber plantations and 5-10 m /ha for protection planta-
tions. Under the erosion control program, root stock centers would be created
in various zones, hills and cells.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
Coffee Demand
6.01      Demand for coffee is primarily determined by established habits,
incomes and prices. Although total demand for coffee has increased steadily,
the growth of per capita demand has slowed considerably in many of the major
importing countries. About 25% of the world coffee production is consumed
in the producing countries, mainly the major ones. About 25% is consumed
in the U.S.A. (from a level of 50% in the early 1950s); a further 40% is
consumed in other OECD countries and 10% in non-OECD importing countries.



- 47 -
Until the early 1950s, virtually all coffee was consumed as ground roasted
coffee. Since then, soluble coffee has captured an increasing share of the
market, a fact which has greatly facilitated the increase in the relative
share in coffee production of Africa and Asia where many countries produce
exclusively or predominantly robusta coffees. Between 1964 and 1969, world
consumption in importing countries increased at an annual rate of about 3%.
Between 1969 and 1974, the rate was slowed down to 1.7%. High prices caused
a sharp fall in consumption, bringing the rate of increase to 0.8%. These
consumption trends varied from country to country. In absolute terms, world
consumption by importing countries has gone from 55 million bags in 1961 to
68.6 million bags in 1978 and an estimated 73.1 million bags in 1979.  Fore-
casts for the next decade call for annual increases varying from 1% to 2.5%
translating into between 65-70 million bags to 78 million bags in 1990 1/.
It is expected that domestic consumption in coffee producing countries will be
stable.
Coffee Supply
6.02      World coffee production is dominated by Brazil and Latin America
wïith 25 and 60% of total production respectively in recent years. Production
has lately been influenced by factors such as unusual frosts in Brazil and a
drop of production in Angola.  Total world production has grown from about 65
million bags in 1970 to about 76.3 million bags in 1978. A number of develop-
ments in major producing countries may further reduce Burundi s share of the
total world production from 0.5% at present. These developments include a
considerable expansion in India and the Philippines of the area planted to
coffee, replanting with higher yielding varieties and emphasis on more inten-
sive cultivation in Guatemala and Honduras and f inally new plantings and
emphasis on higher yielding varieties.
Coffee Trade
6.03      Because of large price variations, the growth of the coffee market
has been uneven with most of the growth concentrated in the 1960s and early
1970s when large stocks were overhanging the market and prices were depressed.
Prices reached a high of $4.70/kg in 1977 constant dollars in the mid-fifties.
This provoked an increase in production from 40 million bags in the 1950s to
70 million bags in the early 1960s. With a slower increase in consumption,
stocks started building up rapidly to reach a maximum of over 80 million bags
in the mid 1960s. Despite the decline in world production since then result-
ing from a tree eradication program in Brazil, the high levels of stocks kept
prices depressed until the devastating frosts of 1975. Coffee supply and
demand have been lately in precarious balance due to more frequent and
unusually harsh frosts in Brazil. A combination of these frosts (1975 and
1976) and low coffee stocks (about 27 million bags) at the start of the
1L977/78 crop year, caused prices to increase to $5.30/kg ($2.40/lb) from a low
of $1.00/kg at the beginning of the frost. Despite the risks of new frosts,
the likely ensuing reduction in Brazil's crop is not expected to check the
downward trend in prices more than temporarily. Prices in 1977 constant
dollars averaged $3.18/kg in 1978 and are expected to decline gradually to
I/   One bag contains 60 kg of green coffee.



- 48 -
$1.85 in 1983 and increase progressively to $2.30 in 1990. These projections
are to be taken within the context of crop uncertainties. One of the salient
features of the market for a number of years has been the so-called special
deals perpetuated mainly by Brazil and Colombia whereby users (and occasion-
ally dealers) are granted discounts below the overt market price in return for
a guarantee to purchase an agreed-upon volume and against a price fall for a
period after the shipment.
6.o4      Burundi coffee is sold to a relatively small clientele of some
20 international dealers by BCC (para. 1.33) after it has been graded and
packed by OCIBU (para. 1.31). BCC generally invites bids from prospective
buyers and, before selling, sets its own terms in addition to the normal terms
for US or European markets. As a small producer, Burundi is very much at the
mercy of events and must follow the market in its ups and downs. The best
defense mechanism may be to make Burundi coffee as attractive as possible to
buyers so that it is sought after on the basis of quality and reliability by
quality conscious consumers in Western Europe. This is the main justification
for investments in washing stations (para. 4.07) to produce fully washed
coffee for which a premium of up to US$ .25/lb has been obtained in the past
over semi-washed coffee.   Prices paid to producers have increased from FBu
34/kg in 1972 to FBu 118/kg in 1979.
International Coffee Agreement
6.o5      The six-year International Coffee Agreement which entered into
force on October 1, 1976, provides for the introduction of export quotas when
prices fall below a specified level. It is not expected that Project incre-
mental production will adversely affect Burundi's position. With total
production of below 400 thousand bags per annum, Burundi is entitled to a
production increase of 5% per annum. The projected incremental production
falls within this rate.
Food crops
6.06      The Project will not have an adverse impact on prices in the present
marketing system for foodcrops where about 15% of total production is marketed
by the farmers themselves and through private traders. Close to the same
level of the total incremental production would be marketed through the
same channels at full development. Prices obtained by producers assisted by
the Project are expected to be about the same as would be the case without
the Project. The expected improvements in marketing would, however, allow for
somewhat lower prices to consumers because they would reduce the usually
strong speculative influence of private traders and would generally work to
reduce price fluctuations.



- 49 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Summary Benefits and Justification
7.01      The proposed Project would be of major importance to Burundi, as
it would contribute to increased food production, and to an increase in the
quantity and quality of coffee, the country's almost only source of export
earnings. The extension and training components would aim at assisting all
70,000 farmers living in the Project area to increase their productivity.
However, it is expected that the extension services' recommendations will be
adopted very slowly, and that about 28,000 farmers would directly benefit
from the Project after about 12 years. The RDC-Kirimiro established under
the Project is expected to continue its operations after Project completion
and expand and intensify its operations over the entire Kirimiro region,
and ultimately provide services to about 100,000 farmers. The Project
would contribute to increasing participating farmers' food consumption by
about 20%, and to increasing their cash income by about 30% from US$90 to
US$120 equivalent annually after 10 years (in 1981 prices).
7.02      The improvement of coffee husbandry methods and the construction
of coffee washing stations and hand pulping centers would increase coffee
production through increased yields, reduction of losses, and would improve
coffee quality. This would increase Burundi's annual coffee production by
about 700 tons in Project year 10 (about 3.5% of the country's total produc-
tion), and by about 2,000 tons in Project year 25 when the Regional Development
Company will have extended and intensified its activities over the entire
Kirimiro region.
7.03      The Project would yield many unquantifiable benefits.  The affore-
station and erosion control component would alleviate environmental degrada-
tion and provide fuel and timber. The increase in food production would
improve nutrition, and, through increasing marketable surpluses, would
increase the food supply to the urban centers. The water supply and social
services component would improve living standards. The research, and monitor-
ing and evaluation components would generate technical and statistical know-
ledge, resulting in the definition or improvement of Government's development
policies. Institution-building would be accelerated through the provision of
technical assistance and training.
7.04      The economic rate of return (ERR) measuring the net incremental
benefits of the Project's directly productive components is estimated at
18%. The Project's benefits are derived from three separately identifiable
sources: (i) the incremental food production by the Project farmers, (ii)
the incremental coffee production resulting from improved farming practices,
and the reduction of losses by the washing stations and hand pulping centers,
and (iii) the improvement of coffee quality through better processing.
Separate benefit streams corresponding to these components are in Table 5.
The ERR on agricultural production (foodcrops and coffee) would be 16%. The
ERR on the coffee washing stations would be 20%.



- 50 -
Basic Assumptions
7.05      In the calculations of the above rates of return, foreign exchange
was shadow priced at 20% above the market rate. If foreign exchange were not
shadow priced, the ERR would increase by about 2 percentage points from 18% to
20% reflecting the fact that most of the Project's incremental production
would be locally consumed foodcrops. The economic life of the Project is
assumed to be 40 years. The rate of return analysis includes all expenditures
for capital investments, replacements, operation and maintenance costs related
to the Project's directly productive components, which represent 80% of the
total Project cost. Costs and benefits arising from the expansion of the
RDC's activities to the entire Kirimiro region and from an increase in adoption
rates following post-Project activities were taken into account. If these
costs and benefits were not taken into account, the ERR would be 14%, which
illustrates the fact that the proposed Project would be only the initial
step in establishing institutional and physical infrastructures for the
development of the Kirimiro region. The Project would not generate any
significant increase in farm labor and therefore no economic value has been
taken into account in the calculations. Coffee prices have been projected
in accordance with Bank forecasts, and foodcrops have been valued at domestic
market prices. If foodcrops were valued at import parity prices, the ERR
would be significantly higher. Costs do not include price contingencies,
taxes and duties. Physical contingencies (representing 10% of Project base
cost), however, are included in the calculation of rates of return.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.06      The ERR is moderately sensitive to changes in costs and benefits.
An increase of all the costs or a decrease in the benefits by 10% would lower
the ERR by 2.5 percentage points from 18% to 15.5%. A decrease of the costs
or an increase in the benefits by 10% would raise the ERR to 20.5%. The ERR
on the agricultural production component would decrease by 3.5 percentage
points from 16% to 12.5% if costs increased by 10% or benefits decreased by
10%. if costs decreased by 10%, or benefits increased by 10%, the ERR would
be 18.5%. For the washing stations component, an increase in costs or a de-
crease in benefits by 10% would reduce the ERR from 20% to 18.5%. A decrease
in costs or an increase in benefits by 10% would increase the ERR to about
22%.
Government Cash Flow and Foreign Exchange Benefits
7.07      The Project's impact on the Government's cash flow is shown at
Table 4.  The cash flow (in current prices) during the first ten years would
show an annual average deficit of about FBu 31 million (US$340,000). A full
development in Project year 20 and thereafter, the annual deficit would be
about FBu 10 million (US$110,000) in 1981 constant prices, which corresponds
to about US$0.80 per farmer's family in the Kirimiro region, and is not
significant. The cumulative net foreign exchange earnings resulting from
the Project and from the continuation of the RDC's activities after Project
completion would be positive until about Project year 30. The annual net
foreign exchange earnings would be positive until year 7, and average about
US$1 million equivalent each year (in 1981 prices). Thereafter, and until



- 51 -
year 30, assuming that the extension and intensification of the RDC's activi-
ties are not financed by external sources, the annual cash flow would vary
between a net deficit of US$1 million equivalent and net earnings of
US$500,000. After year 30, there would be a net annual deficit of about
US$1 million each year.
Risks
7.08      The proposed Project involves substantial risks, whose full scope is
not expressed in sensitivity analysis. Successful development in the Project
area will depend on the effectiveness of efforts to persuade farmers to adopt
new techniques on a wide scale, and relatively rapidly. Improving the organi-
zation and efficiency of extension services and introducing new programs
will be difficult and complex tasks, but are essential to the success of the
Project. Delays might be incurred in recruiting expatriate and Barundi staff,
and in the procurement of supplies and farm inputs. An additional risk is the
possibility that institutional innovations and technical assistance will lapse
following the investment period, without leaving in place a viable system for
continuing services and maintaining infrastructure. The Project would seek to
overcome these risks through its institution-building and training aspects,
and through the flexibility to be effected through Annual Work Programs, which
should permit Project management to benefit from experience and modify programs
as appropriate. Offsetting these risks are two factors: the first, the real
possibilities for improving services, and raising levels of production substan-
tially, the second, that a large number of poor families would certainly be
aided in increasing cash incomes and in raising nutritional levels. Difficult
as they rightly appear, development programs like the proposed Project appear
to offer the best prospect for development in Burundi. In summary, the
risk of not achieving expected returns is significant, although Project
investments would certainly bring a broad range of benefits to large numbers
of people; nevertheless, this type of investment program seems the most
sensible course for Burundi's Government to follow, both in terms of economic
returns on investments, and within the broader context of evolving a develop-
ment strategy suited to the particular and formidable problems which face
Burundi.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(i) the first installment of Government counterpart funds
has been deposited in the RDC's Central Bank account
(para. 3.27);
(ii) the financing agreement between the RDC and CAMOFI has
been signed (para. 3.27);
(iii)  all the following staff will have been appointed: (a)
RDC manager, (b) chief accountant, and (c) deputy
manager of the Rural Development Department of the RDC
(para. 4.04); and



- 52 -
(iv) the first Work Program covering the period of September
1981 to December 1982 has been submitted to IDA (para. 4.13).
8.02      Agreements were received at Credit negotiations that:
(i) IDA and the Government would exchange views annually on
Government policies related to coffee production (para.
1.40);
(ii)  for all studies and project preparation work, the terms
of reference and proposed contracts with consultants
would be submitted to the Association for approval
(para. 3.20);
(iii) Government would employ internationally recruited
personnel and consultants satisfactory to the
Association to assist in the management of the RDC
(para. 3.24)
(iv) the arrangements regarding the provision of funds to
the RDC described at para. 3.27 would be made;
(v)  Government would ensure that the recurrent annual needs
of the RDC for funds and foreign exchange to purchase
fertilizers and chemicals are met (para. 3.28);
(vi) the procurement procedures described at para. 3.29 would
be followed;
(vii) the auditing and reporting requirements described at
para. 3.32 would be followed;
(viii) IDA would be consulted on appointments to all the key
positions of the RDC and these positions would be staffed
at all times during the life of the Project (para. 4.04);
(ix) the RDC would establish a compensation plan to offer
adequate incentives to its staff (para. 4.04);
(x)  Annual Work Programs and budgets would be submitted to
IDA for its review no later than June 15 of the year
preceding the year of the Work Program and budget, and
for its approval promptly thereafter (para. 4.13);
(xi) consolidated semi-annual and annual Project Progress
Reports would be prepared and submitted to IDA no later
than three months following the end of the period covered
by each report (para. 4.14); and
(xii) the RDC would prepare a Project Completion Report no later
than six months after the Project closing date (para. 4.15).



- 53 -
8.03      IDA's approval of the Annual Work Program and budget would be a
condition of disbursement for the activities undertaken during that year
(para. 4.13).
8.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 16.2 million (US$ 19.3 million) to the
Government of Burundi on standard terms.



- 54 -                                                                                 TABLE I
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEIINT RURAL DU IIRIR181O
Prolec;t CTo-s S.mery/Resaee des -outs du prolet i/
(lFB  milliLon
1           2             3            4            5            6             TOTAL         Devises
1. ROGIONAL DEVELOPIIENT COMPANY                                                                                                                                1. SOCLETE XWE[IONALE DE DET6LI)7E39:21
Buildings, Furnuit-r  Eqsipsean              9.3         96.5         68.1            -            -            -             173.9           75                Rotimenta, maniler, aqoipsena
Tehiele                                     98.8         13.2          8.8            -           8.R         13.2             52.B          100                Yeblnuleo
l paroeieg Coatc                             1 4          9.2         10.0         28.6         21.6         21.6              94.1          6O                 Frais deioavnlonoeeenn
persomneî  2/                                2.6         15.3         16.2          16.6         16.9         16.9             864.5          -                 Pensae)  2
Ase-r-t PeAparati-n                         32.4                         -            -            - _                          32.<         100                Preparatio- 0u Prowie
SuuX-l.,ual                                 4 S4.5       34.2        111.8          38.2         47.3         51.7            437.7           64                Sous-tonas )
2. CLPFFPO 1'RolCESTONr                                                                                                                                         2. TEAITEPIENT Di 4(AF6
Woshlng Sestisas Loascrarslon                 -            -          43.4          43.4         43.4           -             130.2          66                 Tomas de laroge-Construccion
dsshing Seations Operati.s.                   -            -           1.7          5.5           9.4         11.5             28,1          14                 Usiees de Isroge -Focnionoemaor
Pulping Ceneers Construction                  -           0.6          0.6          0.6           0.9          0.9              3.6          70                 Ceenees depslpage-p Cog nstraction
Fulping Ceanter  Operseisn                    -           1.4          2.8           3.3          4.6          5.5             18.O          20                 Cenreso depl page - Foscîionse2er4
Vehioles fan Otalatea-ane                     -           1.2           -             -            -           1.1              2.3         lOû                 Tehîrulso pour l'eocroi 5v
Sub-Total 2                                  _            3.2         48.5         53.2          58.3         19.0            182.2          54                 Sous-ool 2
3. WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                 3. PSRoGRATRE SOi_CES
Cpai   Tares cemas                            -           1.0          1.8           2.4          2.4          2.4            I10.      0    BCvosada  na
Opemst1oa sud Maiot-asce                      -           0.2          0.5           0.7          0.9          1.1              3.4            2                 Puuuiorneat steneren
SuboTotas  3                                 _            2.0          2.3           3.01         3.3          3.5             84.2          61                 sous-total 3
4. RURAL ROADS I3iPROVEMLNT                                                                                                                                     4. AMEL0ORATION ROUTES RURALES
Nets Roads                                    .            -           1.7           1.7          1.7           -               5.1          65                 Noursîlea routes
Maintenance                                   -             -           1.5         4.5           4.5          4.5             15.0           65                Enreteien
tridge-                                       -            -           5.0          10.0         15.0           -              2530          80                 Ponts
Sob6Toeat   4                                _            _            8.2          16.2         26.2          4.5             45.i          73                 Sos-tol 4
3. AFFORESTATION - EROSION CONTROL                                                                                                                              5. AFFORESTATION - L4TTE ANTI-EROSII'E
APforeusttiaa                                 -           5.7         89.          17.6          22.7         32.2             91.2          -                  Afforesatinon
Erasisa Contrtl                               -           0.8          6.0         10.2          15.5         15.5             48.D          15                 Lot-e onr i-orosion
Sbo-Tstal 5                                   -           6.5         14.0         27.8          43.2         47.7            139.2            5                Soua-tttl 5
6. EXTENSION SERVICES                                                                                                                                           6. SERVICES DE VULGARISATION
eRoildiego                                    -          13.7         13.7          13.7                        -              41.1          75aiens
"gsipse"n  a  Sehioles                        -           2.7          2.7          2.7            -           2.4             10.5          95                 Equipeeeentecsvehicules
OperEtisg Cases Sehinios                       -            -           0.4          0.7          1.2          1.4              3.7          75                 Foncti-o.e.entrehicoles
S.b-Toasl 6 6                                            16.4         16.8          17.1          1.2          3.8             55.3          79                 Sous-totol 6
7. FARM TNPPTS  2/                                                                                                                                              7. INTRANTS AGRICOLES  3/
Iopses for Food-rope                          -           5.0         10.6         13.2          12.9         13.4             55.1         100                 I--raso    clnores virrieres
-eed Ceoters Foodcrops                        -           6.2          7.0          7.8           3.1          3.1             27.2          86 C6t-e  se.... --
Ilpses for Coffee                             -           0.4          0.9          1.6           1.8          2.3              7.0         100                 -orrants nofe
Seeditoge, Lusatees and ToIs-                             3.5          3.7          3.8           3.8          3.0             18.6          95                 Plst-,  polvenisotens, osails
Svù-Total 7                                   -          15.1         27.2         20.4         21.6          22.6            127.9          95                 Sooa-to   7
e, R55A8CHR. TtUoNÀltJO ARE STUDIES                                                                                                                             8. RgCHERCHE. FORMATIONE ET  UTDDES
SO-eeym,  -os4eooiaR a    EA olotiîa         2.0         16.3          2.0            -          2.0            -              22.3          80                Enquetessoivi et evt ltaoe
Reseseoh                                      -           6.2          6.1           1.4          1.4          1.4             16.5          85                 RE-hseuhe
Teaining                                      -           7.6          4.6          4.6           4.8          3.5             25.1          76                 Pornoeioe
Prep- raeioe oU Projeots                      -            -          10.0         10.0           7.0           -              27.0          80                 Pr-p-ratio- dA  projets
Sub-Total R                                  2.0         30.1         22.7         16.0         15.2         4.9               90.9          80                 Bous-tootal 
9. TECHIRICAL ASRISTANRC                       13.0          34.6        43.2          43.2         43.2         34.6            211.8         100              9. ASSISTANCE TEChNIQUE
10. F510' PROJECTS                                 -          10.0         20.0         20.0         20.0         20.0             90.0          I0 L. PROJETS PILOTES
Il. AUD7TS                                                   2.L0           2.0          2.0        2,0            2.0             10.0         10Q             11. REVTSION DES COMPTES
TOTAL BASE CTST                             69.5        254.1        311.7        263.2         271.5        214.3          1.304.3          67                 COET TOTAL DE BASE
Phys.iel Contingencies  4/                   7.0         24.2         30.0         25.1         24.8          19.2            130.3                             Tmnrsrus physiqses  4/
Prioe Contingeeoies  4/                      4.6         28.6         67.9         86.9         113.9        l10.8            412.7                             Pr-vision pose haosse d-s prie  4/
TOTAL COST                                  81.1        306.9        409.6        305.2        410.2         344.3          1.927.3          67                 COLIT TOTAL
1/  In sid-1981 coesal peices.  Yea  I oser-spoodo eo scaldar year 1981.                                      1/  En pris conseants aoo ..e.a de mi-1981.  L'annee 1 oorrespond asenne calendaire
1981.
2/ RDC persm-nnl  1IsolodieS *     oDetsios o           1fi-ersaeady on the Ministry                            2I  Persmnnel dA  la SRU  emaloset 1so  160 speato deja son l  bodsut do ninastoee de
of  bAetnsltsee hudpet eAd te-hni-ol assistsan.                                                                 EAgeAc,ltrovet *          a     tenholqan.
3/  Tnereamental froms year st ye-r for fentilieers sed chemicss.                                               3/  Sonto ompris dons las coute seulement les ..e.ins toppleenetares Aene anee-sor
lV-t-re pose les engrais e- produits cùimiqes.
4/  physical oontingniesE  cOT except os pilot p-oj ote  s  sadit.  Pnice                                       4/  Impreosa phyaiq-s: n107. sa-f po-r projets piTotes et Hadie.  Osause des peil:
oontingencies:  tn loosI and freine nases, et seighsed sverage of 5.5%                                         ose Tls coots lonaux en on devises-, soe moyeenny   -ond-er  de 5.55, pose ls daustame
fUs  the seon Id RoTf of 1981, 9.3% for 1982, 8.6% for 1983, 8.4%. for 1984,                                   saint   do 1901  9.37. p-or 1982, 8.67 po-n 1983, 8947. p-e  1984, 7.6% pose 1985, et
7.6%. fUn 1985, sd 7.5% for 1986.                                                                               7.57. pose 1986.



55 -                                                          TABLE 2
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL DU KIRIMIRO
Estimated Schedyle of Disbursements
Estimation du calendrier des decaissements
(Us$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                       Quarterly Disbursements   Cumulative Disbursements                    Exercice et trimestres
and Quarter                       Decaissement; trimestriels    Decaissements cumules                            de l'IDA
1981182                                                                                                         1981/82
September 30, 1981                                 0.4                       0.4                                30 Septembre, 1981
December  31, 1981                                  0.1                      0.5                                31 Decembre,  1981
March      31, 1982                                 0.1                      0.6                                 31 Mars,       1982
June      30, 1982                                 0.1                       0.7                                30 Juin,        1982
1982/83                                                                                                         1982/83
September 30, 1982                                 0.2                      0.9                                 30 Septembre, 1982
December  31, 1982                                  0.2                      1.1                                31 Decembre,  1982
March      31, 1983                                 0.6                      1.7                                 31 Mars,       1983
June      30, 1983                                  0.6                      2.3                                30 Juin,        1983
1983/84                                                                                                         1983/84
September 30, 1983                                  1.0                      3.3                                 30 Septembre, 1983
December  31, 1983                                  1.0                      4.3                                 31 Decembre,  1983
March      31, 1984                                 1.0                      5.3                                 31 Mars,       1984
June      30, 1984                                  1.0                      6.3                                30 Juin,        1984
1984/85                                                                                                         1984/85
September 30, 1984                                  1.0                     7.3                                 30 Septembre, 1984
December  31, 1984                                  1.0                      8.3                                31 Decembre,  1984
March      31, 1985                                 1.1                      9.4                                 31 Mars,       1985
June      30, 1985                                  1.1                    10.5                                 30 Juin,        1985
1985/86                                                                                                         1985/86
September 30, 1985                                  1.1                    11.6                                 30 Septembre, 1985
December  31, 1985                                  1.1                     12.7                                31 Decembre,  1985
March     31, 1986                                  1.1                     13.8                                 31 Mars,       1986
June      30, 1986                                  1.1                    14.9                                 30 Juin,        1986
1986/87                                                                                                          1986/87
September 30, 1986                                  1.1                    16.0                                 30 Septembre, 1986
December  31, 1986                                  1.1                     17.1                                 31 Decembre,  1986
March      31, 1987                                 1.1                     18,2                                 31 Mars,       1987
Jure      30, 1987                                  1.1                    19.3                                 30 Juin,        1987



TABR E
BU RUENDI
KRIlMIRO RURAL DEVELOPKENT PRO,IECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL DU KIRIMIRR
RteOcsia1 Denolopseet Ccepacy CasE-Fisc
Cash-_FIsc Sooiese Reolornale de Reoelsppeeen t ll'
-                   3          4's        E    8                T                      i n                   T           2
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                                                             SOUECES TES -OlNOS
.orerrsnont                                          ON69    2E9          S4        21R        229        191T      TIO     )i               99       Es           s; e 
aTs     T Face InpuRs  2R                             -         TE        O8         44         53         69         A6        1'o4         25       15O2        T 7        1 7e                   d eR
WAue ing SI.aI.i'cR  ET                               -         -           T          S        T'>         4          l         TU 16                 lU 16       16          f,            Usines de tavOU    3!
*OTAL SOURCES                   69                         274        313       26R   29      2       273        21           S         R 21       2           h4  2  2 67 2.                TOTAL DES SOENRCES
USES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                                                                EMPLSI DES FONDS
RDC anAd Peoîet                                                                                                                                                                              SRD et Proles
URRgioTR  Development COmpaS0                         NO       15        TU          SU         45         NE          I                      T         T           l         El                Uno54  134  2  35  47  52  41  41  4l  4  41  R o     de   eelpern
TeREnlool Assistant e                                 13        3;        45         45         OR  3 3 3                   -          -          -          -                -              AssIstance   tOtiEun
Uoneesice Essaimes  Ul                                _         SE5       EU         SU         OC         OS         OR 23                  2S        23          23         2E             Sero2ces de OEULnE53atîO3
irputs fo  F-dceope                                   -        il         23         37         45        5         7O          87         !E4      2T4          137        14             Incesn s  c  tmesv
Enos -o  Coîlen                                   -          I          S                              I           4         TO          Ol        RU          SE         (lE             te ecl
.TaSEÎOR  Etaniono                                    -         -         45         49         S3         10         1R         TR          12         0           R2        R2             Usines de laoa5e
Erd lolpons                                           -          S          E          I          E                                            S        T            O                       Cscmedepuîpagemanue
Alorenetation  - Erosion Cooneol                      -          T         14.       OU         43         4û         TU         LU          16        TA          lA         lU            Afleestaionset isets a nti-e1  1v1
Watee ESpply and Rural Roade                          -          2          O          S          E         4           1         1            1              I    T                         Sooeeesteoutesrueales
ReseartO an   T_oioinR                                 2        30         13          O          A          S         E          S            S        S           S           i            RecbetoetFoema
EOE-Notal                                        S69       26E        296       25O 2S        3       255        U91        OS9         23O       Z57        2072        275                 Sois-toton
Ehoot-Teerm Toteneste                                                                                                                                                                        ItnmsrtsoEcouet-tnenio   R1
Ose Poeotaee of EBeerises                                                                                                                                                                    AnOat de sches:
VaT   se-  CEnenUe     51 -                                 -          14         49         AN       141        16R         1            OC i 7  10iE        1          1710                Vueue dee cerises S-
Fon Fnef inasoicU  sf Pro jects  Tosars                                                                                                                                                     FneîOanneomrt touts As pomoet:
Oalae Preeinonced                                 -        RIS        700        RR6        003        173         -          -           _        _            _          _                 Vtleon  peeinanten
leteeest                                          -         13        1T          14         13         1U        _             _           _         _        _             _               I tets
Tonal Interent                                    _         OR         10         10         lA        lA          10        OC           15       1S          OU         OU                  ot  in,
tETAL USES                                        69       274        313        268       29R2       273        201        219         240       2607        282       2RA                  TTAL DES EMIPLOIS
UT To ENEU tonssano onEces.  5Ear 1 conteasponAs Es caUseUse peas OSAi.                                                                V  Eo pr is cscstcmtu  auoUoveau de LABO .  I. atnne I cos#esOooU  s     ne
Et i  ass.o.-d th-  ETs acRC.   tiite  coulA  0ot e_ pand to  "eI rael- caTeodairs TlT  En a suppose que Oe-  ac.-ivits de 1a SRD os eerd-ot
Us tRe  Kinlm-no REUo. Utss of pilr   peojeets a-d  sAditR  tot i-Elsd5d.                                                             pas aet nc s-elies  ne                isor      Au pf            Use ct  An
piRlet sE dca asAlte  esc   pas-          es
RV  Sld tasE  to tRenens.                                                                                                              20' Vedus casE  son ferosicers
31 Et is as-.send that hal of  tUe sortis due to improved coUfne 5uaRlity                                                             E/ RT    suppose que lacolele d-   la plus-malos mesulcat As  ' ase ioracice  dn
coAd be paid ta lancers, OEa o0hcr half btisg reecinsd  by the ROC.                                                                    La Esalise du tAlc serait papas aur Ferolero, Lacsenmoitieetacn
toteenese par Os SRD.
le  Et 127. p.a.  on sx ontht                                                                                                          4/ 0 A1   pan tt suecr scti-
S/ CEerrins puecOascd ot the equts                 Fa,or of PRo 157Tkg uf P-oct-est coifee                                                 TeeUses achEtees  au prio de FûR  1571kg eduisasen  ds calf  perche.
El IctoIdes FBu 19.2  ilLion per ac-am  fIo  the lES e6 tessios olTUSere                                                               61 Comprends FBu  19.2 million Taro   pose paner Oe-  160 tulUa1 itcste As dea
a1-ady paid by UoaroseeR                                                                                                              paYes par Oc Gourerncmest



EURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL DU KIRIMIRO
Tovrrmen t Project Cath-FPov
Cash_flov du ,ouvernement   ll
I         Z         3         4          5         6           7         8         9                               2U Il  12  13         14        15      1640        211-90
SOURCES O  FUNDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOURCES DES POWDS
IDA Credit                                           45       54        288       360        396       396         198        -          -         _         _          -         -           -          -         -           -                   -redit IDA
Taxes on Coffee:  2/                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "Il, e          at,   2
Proposed Peujett  3/                              -         -          4         14        29        43          52        58        63        67         71        73         73          73        73         73         73                    Proî -î Propose   37
Extelnt on Phas/_                                                                                                                     4         14        29        43         52          58        63         67         73                    Phase d'r t.roin 4/
Iocenetfîoetun  sT                                -         -         -         -          -                                1         5        10         15        18        22          27         35      44-54         54                    5ntenaifue Eon  s/
TOTAL SOUUCES                                   _45         54       292       374       425        439        250         59        7Z        91        115       134        147        7S8        171     184-194       20D                     rOTAL DES SOURCES
USES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    USES OF FURNDS
P-ej-lt Imple-euta.ji-  6/                           81       307       410        375       410       344         137       137        137       137       137        137       137         137       137        137        137                  Proînt 5/
Ext-eoi-o und Entend ficaunon   7/                                                            -          -           5         I          s 10     SU         25        3()        30         3) 0       30        30          30                Enttenrion, et    ..ten Sifiltin   7/
lA EdOnroce Charge                             ,               -                     2         5          Y         11         12                  IZ 12      102 12                          1U                    9         l-0                Chargea  IDA
IDA frîncopal                                                                                                       -         -          -                    6         16        16          16         l4        IU          48                PelecApal  SD
TOTAL USES                                        81       307       410       377        415       352         152       159       164        169       190       195        190        193        193        192      223-215                   rOTAL DES EMPLOIS
NRt Cauh plou  _/                                (36,    (253)      (118)        (30       10        87          98     (1(0)       (92)       (78)      (75)      (611      (481         (350      (Z2)    (8)-2      (23)-115)                  Cu4h flow  net 8/
1/ In curent p-iSto  yeus-  lb6,  conetunE el-rrealtor.  Iran   correspondu                                                                                                          1/En prli  curate -enen-s l a 6, cuonnanta par la suite.  L'anone  I curreepund a
tn  calnodur year 1981.  PhySil cuntiencen arr iludd.                                                                                                                                  1'anr   -1-di-  1981.  L    ip-    physiques  -t   l-
2/ FBu 7D ,1111/î- cf iocre -eotul coffee proueuin, lu 198) prlien.                                                                                                                   2/ FBu.  70.111U par 000-e de cafe  pupplemeîasro  eo prlI  de Ifl.
3/ Slt com--n, udopti- ralte 40!..                                                                                                                                                    3/ Si. ooun, taut da.doputio.  4i.
4/ El tooaion  Ireur cf Kirlniro crU 100,  dopti.. rule 4017..                                                                                                                        4/                                       a.rentio  au rEste de lu  melon du f.riol.o .aoo d'adoption  401.
S/ Pr-gnees iv    i-,crer o. f udpti n rate -n  70%  - the vho)e Kirmiro reuico.                                                                                                      I AugOantatIon prugrasine du tu..  d'adopti ana  71', nue toute lu re-gin  du Kîriinru.
6/ E-cludin  FPBu 19.2 mcorrrepunding  ru sal rina of Nrte Ico offîcere as                                                                                                            6/ Ne co-p-redr pas FEu 19,2 m n-rreepoodaor aun aslaîre  de  ruî
p-eot patd ùy Gouernment.                                                                                                                                                              actuel>enene poyes par le Cuo-eemeno.t.
7/ Addidiooal ce uts ofeenaIon servîtes uod n-r-lead.                                                                                                                                 7/ Coue atuppl eeoralrra po         ern Ane de nul ariaatoon rt traie fenseaun.
S/ looloOno CAMOFI pro-fînuoclof.                                                                                                                                                     S  Iceprendu le prn-tonnenen  CAMOFI.



KRI'NIIRU RURAL DEUELUI'8ENT PRUJECU
PROJET NE DEUELOPPEMNU1U RURAL DU UIRNIMIRU
(PB. lilli-) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ S                 S.5
i       i2                                       7               9       lUJ      Il      12      13      14      il       16      17      18       9U    2U        21      20       23      24  onad    Ueie
DUC Unerhead            ~~~    ~~~~ ~~54  134  112  38   47      52      41      41      41       41      Ai      41       41      41      41      41      41       41      41      41      41       41      41       4I      41          64            IntnRgnaede lnniepsen
Tenheical Assistance     1~~~~~3 SS      43      43       43      3    -           -       -       -       -       -           -       - -          -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -          IUU            Asitac   Ceit [u
Nuteneinnlntviceu      -       SU      17       17  1~~~~I       4       4      US      US       21       S       R       N        A       R       R~      R        N       R       A       I        I       N        N       s          79             evc   ngrstc
mUcus - Fnudctups      -      ~~~~~~           ~~~Il  23  37  45  S     72      98     12?     161      182    2 13     242     2 72    3UA      329     3 67    cOU     415    43U       445     46U      475     49U     49U          95Iuut       ulue    iree
leputs - CoUine        -       ~ ~~~~               ~~~~~4  S  7  N  Il  14     2i      26       35      38      44      SI      57       64      US      85      83       87      SU      95       97     SOU     LUS       OU0        95mssts-Cf
WsshUn8 Ittlien-                          -       45      49      53       Il      SU      34      82      N7       21      SU      SU      52      55       56      36      36      36       36      36      36       36      36       36         54             Uie   elng
Nund Pulpen                       -                S       4        S       7       7      SU      15      il      12        7       7       7        7       7       7      -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -          54Cetsdpuaeecl
R..s.a.nhsndTriig                  2      SU      13       6        6       S       5       S       5        5       S       S       S       S        S       S       S       S        S       S       5        S       S                S         NURcertniuetu
Ucus1 Custe               6f9      233     261     2UI     218      184     155     009     312     361     354      348     384    442    4~84       531     544     573      592     610     628     647      665     680     680                                 no  des couic
RENEFITSAVNGE
F-nd- p                           -      -        15      56      66      95     121     149      191     248     313     363    429       48 7    5447    GU      675      728     794    12'.    854       IN4     9l4    944    9)7 2           -             Cul ur-nîni-I-s
Unffe-:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Laie
lep Ile Faruinî            -                2       7      14      20       I6      I3      43      5        71     82       9        9     125     141      517     17U     176  ~14         192     200     208R    216      216        0laeitsinu  tt
Iluehln  Sttos                                      32       65      94      Il 1   120     144     18'4'    231     269     2 NI'    299    315      332     346     355     358    359       360     560    360    36U         360         lU0                  Usine  de tanag
NunA Pulper                                  2        S       6      SU      13      14      1 6      15     SU       lU      55      74       14      14      14      -                                -        -       -                   5                    Uspolpagmasu
Teusi NenefUts  -      -       25      8U~~~~~~~~~~_1(  151  21 7    27U  316  394     SUl7    635      724    824    SUS   I_SOI   1.097  I, 192  1.753  1.328   I 367  I 406   I 444   S 482  I SOU   I 548Toadeantse
Nnt Nenefits        (~~~~~65)  (2337  (2361   (loi)   1371    33     115      87      82      146     281     376    440    467    5 17        566     648     68U      736     757     SUN      797     817    840       868                              _________
UD  -lI
1'  Unets aed Snen8ius ntcns,ss sepunssel An cunstunt ~1981                                                                                                                                                     IL.Ce  flue As ncuse   ntassntspmsenpeiu
pnices, uAthuut ehadea ptccctf nU Unrei~uexcSauge,                                                                                                                     constants de 1981, cana Aunnet de es--ur vIrtuelle a
sn   nlds    hysica   neunenis    She ENU   cne,toeA   hc,                                                                                                                                                                                t -clut  e    ipenspSysliue.   Ce
Std taktng these mue- -cot .Ucnr   n   eedn   e    rse   opte dan...                                                                                                                                                                                                            siu
du usnn d  eetbi Inn  in tere



TULE 6
OLRLIDI.
FIIRIHIKO ;VRULAL DnEvLOptst PRO ICT
nD11f6t  £EPP15    T P   AL DU Xlt017J1
Actes 10 feasa/Aars 10 -p
Passa: Sîtuselof   Alehout Pro-cci         MAtib Pro-ct-
Pittatlor actuelle  Sap  "e P'o°et       Avec le pro 'et
9EANS                                                                                                                                      HARICOTS
(h. cppd   o                                      0.5                 0.37                 0.37                                     Surf-rerIttu-  <ha>
ralOeldc(X8ha                                            °6530                d2L7               7,000  )/                                tecdeceascc ( t0 (cai
Prcd-c,tlo  (kg)                                           240                229                  305                                     rcdoctcco (kg)
TapaI C-ro  calot (FPu)                                 14,160             13,511               17,995                                     Oplec.  cotais de 1a  -scolcs (Fcu)
cf ahlch                                                                                                                                   doot:
Neskptpd                                             2,124               2,026               5,400                                         Ccesr,rclei [ce
Coocoord                                            12,036              01,485              12,595                                         Coece
C-ec cf IoPce CFtb)  2/                                    -                  -                 2,934                                     Cou- dOe  locrocce Cutc)  2/
Net Tc-) Rteppu-                                        14,160             13.511               15061
Nec Ceaf, teorruf                                       2,124               2,026               2,466                                     Oeceoc   eccecairs 055
MAI06                                                                                                                                     AIS
rsa Crpped (h.a)                                         0.10                0.70                0.10                                     S-rf-eruicîosp(ha)
fIelO <1t/.)                                              800                 060               1,300                                     Padeas - Ccp/hp)
Prodoccîe <(kg)                                            80                  76                  130                                    Prodccc-tu  (fa)
focal C-up VOaop (PPc)                                  2,560               2,432               4,160                                     /'aI-o  cotais de la recoice iFru)
cf ehbch                                                                                                                                  d-tc
Ifar/ccced                                             384                 365               1,660                                        Ceercplli.e
Corconsld 2,176                                                          2,067               2,500                                        C =oe
Ces cf lopo-e /FPt)  2/                                    -                  -                 1,586                                     Ceus dee Locrarce  PSu>  /l
tI Vocal Resocrue                                       2,560               2,432               2,574                                     Peceru oct coca)
tpp Ceeb apoeocp                                           364                365                   74                                    tausso  acre3t re cc7
SWEEt POTOfES                                                                                                                             F PAUTES DCOUES
Aess  Cropped  eh.)                                    0085                0.085               0.085                                     Surf-co  -olcite-  (ha,
feldî (Oc/ha)                                           5,000               4,750               6,500                                     tRodsNoso  (tp/ha)
Produccoco /03)                                           425                 404                 553                                     Produccîc(Ko   )
Votai Crop Valce (po)                                   6,588               6,Z62               8,572                                     Val-eus  -eaf  de fa rsc.ics (roui
cf ohicb:                                                                                                                                 dccc
Oorkstcd                                             1,318               1,252               1,014                                        Coaereîalîe
Ccec-sd                                              5,270               5,010               6,858                                        ConaLoas
lac local PececLus  3/                                  6,568 6.262                             8,572                                     PaetIu nta  pecai  3/
fis  Cash Aso7sue  37                                    7,318              7,052               7,0/4                                     tesu  ooars sec  3/
Oas Crodpe dha0 002                                                          0.02                0.02                                     Surf-co c-lcîcea (hb)
Yleld /63/hcaf                                             600                570                  050                                    lfo         Ilec  t/ca
P-cd-t-  Ç/0.)                                              12                 Il                   L5                                    Prod-ctîo- (Es)
Tocal Crocp  olue (Pbc)                                   936                 858               1,170                                       u  -eus cotais de 1l reco/co (FBi )
of uhîc:                                                                                                                                  dccc.
Ve-kte d                                               374                 343                 585                                         cer"ecle
Co,-s-d                                                562                 515                 585                                        Cons
C-et ut 11005e (FPu)  2/                                   -                  -                   317                                     Ceco dse    (aFt)  2
NPa  TotoI Revsnua                                         936                858                 853                                     R5eVc tac cocAi
NpCçah Rteeaue                                             374                343                 268                                    ROecc
AT C"pped (ha)                                            0.00               0.10                0.10                                     Surface  -ulcIv-e <ha)
Yli.d (kg/6a)                                           4,000               3,800               5,000                                     tacdsept /03/ha)
ProductîoD (/0)                                           400                 380                 500                                     Produecot  (tg)
rotaI Crop Volue (FEt)                                  4,600               4,370               5,050                                     Volas totale de la recoice /(FB)
cf ehicho                                                                                                                                 doc
HMskstsd                                               920                 E74               I,I50                                        Ce.erelal
Coeas--d                                             3,680               3,4f6               4,600                                        Ccca-e
Pst  TotRf Pass-s  3/                                   4,600               4,370               3,750                                     -r-scoc   fo-al 3/
la  uabh Rt   -   3f                                       920                874               I,I50                                     tacenue acceca.r.   est  31
TOtAL FOOOCROPS                                                                                                                           Tf/1 T OLTO0ES VIYRIER65  5/
8.c Total Reteace /ftuf                                 2S,844             27,433              32,810                                     R            -aIc tac cotai  (Fau)
._at haelt Or_ec..  FBP)                                 5,120              4,860               3,672                                     tacenc D -i-tlsa cgt -rFo/
COFFRE                                                                                                                                    CAFE
urea OCopped (hg)                                       0,045               0,045               0,045                                     Surface eclti-ee (ha)
YVeld (/3bh.)                                              432                390                 606                                     tacd-eot (/0/ha)
Frcdoctioc (Kgl                                             19                 18                   27                                    Podccts 0KX)
tEdcettat cf 7Aceep  /Ks/  6i/                                                -                      8                                    taducotio  dee partes (K81) ,6/
Croc Valos (FS=)  7/                                     2,983              3,294               6,405                                     Vole-r racolas (PBol  7/
Cot cf  1rpoce                                             -                  _                  ,100                                     C-t dOe  Ictr-ape
tIf Cash                                                 2,983              3,294               3,305                                     RAttes  9trcie cet
CQRROLinATE  bBIE7T                                                                                                                       3U90T CONSOLIDE
aoc Vccsi Rt,eoup                                       31,827             30,727              3R,705                                     Oasecsccotac
O aeh lacacor 8e                               ,        *,103               f,l54              10,977                                     caoaoc  cooscta0e ose
Il        c.lfo  arra sabje.r  ta ylaId acd pradoctjIa  larsease..  felY d                       /  7_ aOtite Os la  orfac-  fait O cbhjt O soetucccrs de seodetesc
ahoca ap5le_ o_îV  co 0.185 ha.                                                                 de prodoccloL. tee credapecce el-deeoe  'app.iqoecc  seaecc a
0,165 ha.
2/  2I0 kg/ha 3 FSV 64/kg La 19Y1 prIce, acaresee d         ut18  (i a.                          2/  210 kA/ha a P7u 64/b  a psla de 1981 auparc  de 1S3 posa tests et
rs= L5,860/ha) ha rsfI-et eopstsd t.crea.e It  f-rtiltsar                                        ccwte I            tcs prette do cout de.  capoS. en   e-. e.ele,
prTce la rgel terse.  ThipP  prîev as s  as Pasra  esaheds.                                      sata nu, IS,PO/hg   0e pria ce tterc et te d'Ydaetote.oherttot
3/  au fercîl tese ne applid esetifîcalIs ot assat pohaccescd                                  dl  Pp d applicatlc d O g rraIe as ccflq"ecoat  eut Ie        " patatae  doocasso
e          iehaVa,  hicOb .et.ft cf reîidol effec-  cf applito-iot co                            it ascice  qui he.efcîIsit de I e'fîsc raiduef Or la tusosa dea
bce c  aaiac.                                                                                   hasdcota code  aie.
tl  ippltceclt,o oî fsrtiloeere a,, greOsdhAtup  ail  te recceag  dosita                        4/  Lopplccaciot d' eaprale aur 11grachtde pers eRagater au  ours du.
rro7citccaieneetettoe. se slcaoclaf vcosellîc  cvf farcI iifcî,                                  Projet, Ces fasartablltts floanctere de cecca opesation t'est apa
proococote le ccc aetabfassea for all ferico ettacocs                                            daecatsrp dac  toas Ire cas.
5/  SorphD,nocacabef{tacotedtooatsdaisaa*roitllcnth faNa                                         S/  ceccDSgcn eet pas prt eeccoapte etsecV egiîRasbla dateshobdpec
bodgRc.  PacArc  baac ealee (shoot TFE= 0,6001 ccc  hebce  ae ta                                 de la frsa.  ha recta ds htere dc Spoaesa /enolrsc P3u 3,6001  'Oee
le acesasd chah tthp accld be comPefoace  hy hoansaa beer s                   rpariectes  c, cnaecppoac gos îpg reoéUAscAn eoccoare tsa»cess
purchares.                                                                                      pas Oas Mc bote de hisse.
61  lacoa-e.  of 32S cf productlor dos ce    roost   cf eh-rryi /icesasr,tacics ds 320 de 1la pdod-cctoc d-e o                                          1 ttratlc,, da sepporc-
pccbaent afd                    -iaschaet/preincecoe ic the aoshitg etatîocs.                    cerlpe(parcbsrt pac.e/cafe sert date les usi. -      e Os  -cSs.
7/  Prooes price FPa  157/kg at pre.t, PBe 183/kR is F'a  i°                                    7/  PrI' a. prottao  PPc 157/kg sccorlcasc, FB= 103/k, -e a.cee 10.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-Sector
No sector or sub-sector report is available.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi. Projet de développement intégré dans la région du Kirimiro (5 volumes),
SOMEBU, Août 1979
B2. Projet de développement intégré dans la région du Kirimiro,
commentaires et rectifications, SOMEBU, Décembre 1979.
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl. Working papers (one volume), June 1, 1981.



BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL DU KIRIMIRO
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE /CALENDR 1ER D'EXECUTION
1981           1982          1983           1984            1985          1986            1987
ACTIVITIES                                                         -     -     -     -     -                        -ACTIVITES
1  2  34    1  2  3  4  1  2  34    I  2  3 4   i  2  3 4   1  2  3   4  ¶  2 13  4
NEGOTIATIONS                         gNEGOCIATIONS
EFFECTIVENEsS                                                                                                                              ENTAEE EN VIGUEUR
COMPLETION DATE                                                                                                           90DATE D'ACH-EVEMENT
CLOSING DATE                                                                                                                      10DATE DE CLOTURE
BLJIL'OINGS RDC                          -       ----              --CONSTRUCTIONS SRD
CO~NSTRUCTION WASHING STATIONS                                                 --                     -                                    CONST. STATIONS DE LAVAGE
HOADS IMPRO0VEMENT                                                                                                                         AE-OAINRUE
AFFORESTATION- EROSION CONTROL                   -                         ---            -       --         ----REBOISEMIENT-LUJTTE ANTI-EROSIVE
V~ATER SUPPLY PROGRAM                            -                                           ~    -i -----PROGRAMME SOUIRCES
SOCI0- ECONIOMIC SURVEY                                                                                                                    ENOUETE SOCIO ECONOMIQUE
AGR;IICLTURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                  DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
FIRST COMMUNE                                   ------                    ----               -       i  --          --PREMIERE COMMUNE
SECOND COMMUNE                                          -                                     a-         ---DEUXIEME COMMUNE
NET T\NO COMIMUNES                                             -  -  -à -mm                     ~ ~ --                                      DEUX COMMUNES SUIVANTES
LAST TVVO COMMUNES               -                                            --- -~                             .--DERNIERES COMMUNES
WorId Bank - 22690    F



ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK
MINISTER'S CABINET
Directorate G eneral                                         Directc                                                      g General  Directorage General
Dirictrate Gnral                                           DiretoraeGeea                                            Agricultu ral and L ivestock
Agricuhtural                                                  Ljvest ck                                                     Planning
Agronomy           Rural Works       Waters and Forestry       Land Tenure          Animal Production      Animal Halth            Veterinary             Agricultural
Department          Department            Department            Department             Department            Department            Laboratory               Training
Worid Bank - 22233
Ci
t"



-  63 -                                        CHART  3
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
| MINISTER'S CABINET
Di rectorate General
for Rural Development
Cooperative                    Rural Housing                   Hydraulics and
Department         Department  ~~i   i Rural Electriifcation
Department                      Department         I   I        Department
Offices
Worid Bank - 22234



ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE RDC
ORGANIGRAMME DE LASRD
UItSI:STR;Y OF AGP ICULtURf AND LIVESTrOCVf
j  ~dN S.'EFE DE L'AGRICVLTURE ET DE L'ELEVAGE|
t   `^A9U      ;    5       | t~~C'CN-.N_,L DADMINI5TRATIONI  r  mOIB 
I      IWASHING STATIONS MANAGEMENT COVM TTEE
g   COMITE DE GESTION USINES DE LAVAGE
SI E        ~ GI        -
AP>. ,ED NE3EARCh                                              
SEe; CEN:9qSicChIRCHE
PpOJUCTfL', r'E SEN E:iCES
. FIAC.ETEV ~                                                     DP.T
| CE%T,NL; AN' fINANCE DEPT                                  RJRAI DEVEIOPME' DEPT.                             CONSTRUCTION DEPT.                                      TY CHNICAL DEPT./
' -1- ADMiN ETF,ftNANCE                                    DEPT OU DEV RURA»                                   DEPT. DES CONSTRUCTIONS                                  DEPT TECHNIOUE
7                                                                                          0SOi                   BI.DGOEPT.            R S                 WAH |ING STAT,ONS      lANODPULPERSP
.c- ` _,-E | | PENSONNEL  | CRATS        |O~MATIN                      rT RURALDEPT. CONSTRUCTION | | DEPT. ROUTIER  |  | USINES DE LAVAGE                                DEPULPEURS
1 R~~~~~~~M  R .Lt1UP.COSR1
"T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
PIo,,J 8.,  22236



BRURLNDI 
KIRIMIRO  RULRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       R W  A N D A
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
PRfOJET CE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL CDJ K/RMIRO  2   
EMPÊLzICEMEN 'DE 1A ZONE DU PROJET                                                                                          -
_ _                                               I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRUN   Ce
(  t                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~- LLMBA~~~~ÇUB[ UKB
k.E        k N20R4Jf>~~~1  E            5'lGt
~~~~l         G  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                         c-cc~~~~~ ANG       
U GANDA ~ ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           -        »           TA ZAI
DRAM  BU5                                  M~~~~~~~~~~~~ P FiN G A ?
BJ Il 1 N YUA N D
c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o
4-Oc.   O                                                                                                                                                 Cc~~~~~~~~~~MBY
29 CC'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~ElRL






IBRD 15320
NOVEMBER 1980
Tl, Ngz
t           <      I~~~ A  H4 O
KILOMETERS °             E             10             I        .
MILEES     l     
2,4                     XI
BURUNDI
- _,X'-   9  9           '4    g                       ~~KIRIMIRO
I $ RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
B T A R E                               PROJEJT DE DEVELOPPEMENT
v,  , J       RURAL DU K/R/MIRO
ZONE DU PROJET
S A N D A                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECU AREA
ZONE DU PROJET
Y                                                                                          -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL ROADO
y  Y     ~~~~~~~~~~~rr~~~~~~~r __                                                                  R~~~~~~~~~~~~OUTES  NVATIONAZES
'G                                      HJ                                                            MAIN ROADS
Y                                                                                  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUTES PRINCIPA4iES
Y                                                                             ®     E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROV.NC AL CAPITAL
N D A V A                                                                                                        CATA/Ef DOR PROVINCE
*  COMMUNAL OFFICES
_UREAU DF COM1MUNE
~~~r __ ..r)                                                                            -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCLTAL BOUJNDARLES
`/M/IT DfS PROVINCES
N Y A B       A N G A                                                                          ARRONDISEMENT BOUNDARIES
/  K~TEG A YITE ORS ARRONVOISEMEN TS
-  COMMUNE 8OUNDARIES
I'MITE CES COMiMUNES
:   /   ,}    ,  BUKIRASAZI      S=                              ?           m                    Z~~~~~~~~~~~~ VIRE
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
2   t   )   U K    R h S A Z I  z                         teM3UR~~~~~~R WA  <N t
At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Itrid 6ant Ta Royg, U K    R A /                              A Z
B..k cr                       .|
The dt tmm ateons  3 d déd Ihe   /   o /                      I l                                          n   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'r
dootlmt oth Pn o t      r ft uz                                       \ 9.X/)\  
dgmenrontheleg3lstatusof~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I                                          vII RWND                     *>
3nv h3moDrv 0r a3v endotsament   8           * * ç  \                                              \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y  't
or acce ;0tdnce ot snoh boundetfits                      8                                      a 3P- |   1 29'3    ,         «      ._-r-~.



