Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3079-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 28, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         -            Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00               -            FBu9O
FBul                  -            US$0.011
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC       -    Burundi Coffee Company
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
ISABU     -    Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(Burundi Institute of Agricultural Sciences)
OCIBU     -    Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(Burundi Industrial Crop Development Office)
RDC      -      Regional Development Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Burundi
Amount:                   SDR 16.2 million
(US$19.3 million)
Terms:                    Standard IDA Terms
Beneficiary:              Kirimiro Regional Development Company (RD")
Relending Terms:          Grant
Project Description: (i) Objectives: (a) assist smallholders to
improve the productivity of coffee and
foodcrop cultivation; (ii) improve the quality
of exported coffee; (iii) improve rural
living conditions by building or maintaining
water sources, improving the road network
and developing wood resources to be used for
fuel and building; and (iv) strengthen the RDC's
management capability through training and
technical assistance .
(ii) Components: (a) a program to provide extension
services and agricultural inputs; (b) construction
and equipping of 6 coffee washing stations and
of 12 handpulping centers and improvement of
the operation and maintenance of all handpulping
centers; (c) afforestation and erosion control
measures; (d) improvement of the road and water
supply network; (e) pilot activities; (f) studies,
research, training and Project monitoring: and
(g) technical assistance.
(iii) Benefits: 28,000 farm families would receive
assistance for coffee and foodcrop development.
The annual incremental cash income per farmer
is exDected to average ahout TTSt 3n.   The
foodcrop component would result in better
nutrition for the families benefitting from it.
The water supply and social services activities
would improve rural living standards. The
reafforestation and erosion component would
assist in controlling soil degradation and
providing wood for fuel and building.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofiMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(iv)  Risks: (a) possible weaknesses of extension services with
the risk that the technical package might be adopted by
the farmers at a slower rate than expected; (b) possible
delays in implementation resulting from problems in selec-
ting internationally recruited staff and/or from slow delive-
ry of materials; and (c) possibility that institutional and
technical innovations might lapse following the investment
period. The Project has been designed to minimize these
risks, in particular through institution building, flexible
annual work programs and a training component to strengthen
extension services.
Estimated Costs 1l
Local   Foreign   Total
…US$ million-
Regional Development Company           1,8     3.1       4.9
Coffee Processing                      0.9     1.1       2.0
Water Supply                           0.1     0.1       0.2
Rural Roads                            0.1     0.4       0.5
Afforestation and Erosion Control    1.4       0.1       1.5
Extension Services                     0.1     0.5       0.6
Farm Inputs                            0.1     1.1       1.2
Research, Training, Studies            0.2     0.8       1.0
Technical Assistance                    -      2.4       2.4
Pilot Projects                        0.2      0.7      1.0
Audits                                  -      0.1       0.1
TOTAL BASE COST                       5.0    10.4      15.4
Physical Contingencies                 0.4     1.0       1.4
Price Contingencies                    1.5     3.1       4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     6.9    14-       2191h
1/ Taxes and duties are included in Project costs but are negligible.



(iii)
Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreign   Total
Government                 2.1        -         2.1
IDA                        4.d      14.5       19.3
TOTAL                      6.S      14.5       21.4
(US$ Million)
IDA FY      1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                     0.7   1.6    4.0    4.2    4.4    4.4
Cumulative                0.7   2.3           10.5   14.9   19.3
Economic Rate of Return
18% on directly productive Project components (amounting to about
80% of total Project costs).
Appraisal Report: No. 3402 dated May 19, 1981.
Map: IBRD 15319.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR THE KIRIMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR
16.2 million (US$19.3 million) on standard IDA terms to finance the Kirimiro
Rural Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1981. Updated country data are provided below and in
Annex 1.
3.        Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$180 in
1979, Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world and is designated
as "least developed" by the United Nations. Of a population of about four
million, only 90,000 are wage earners; the remainder depend mainly on subsistence
agriculture. The Government is facing several critical problems in its
efforts to develop the economy: the capability to prepare and manage programs
and projects is weak; the agricultural labor force is largely untrained;
and population growth keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly
in agriculture. Despite a stated policy of "spaced births", the problems
of population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future. A major
effort must therefore be made to increase agricultural productivity. During
the past decade, agricultural production per capita declined steadily.
The search for more arable land has caused large-scale deforestation and
severe shortages of firewood in the rural areas, which makes the development
of alternative energy sources urgent.
4.        Shipments of imports and exports through the principal outlets
via Tanzania have frequently encountered delays due to bottlenecks in the
port of Dar-es-Salaam, underinvestment in the railway link between Tabora
and Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika, and losses because of theft. However, action
is being taken to make external connections more reliable. The link via
Rwanda and Uganda to the port of Mombasa (Kenya) is becoming increasingly
attractive with the continuing improvement of national highways between
Bujumbura and Mombasa.
5.        Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation
and improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which
was levied on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can
1/ This part is identical to that in the President's Report No. P-3062-BU
on a Nickel Exploration/Engineering Project, considered by the Executive
Directors on May 28, 1981.



-2-
be withdrawn after three years.  In addition, the traditional obligation
for small farmers to provide services to landowners in exchange for the
right to cultivate land was abolished. Likewise, land which was obtained
in an irregular manner for speculative purposes was returned to the State
or to the farmers who cultivated it. Other aspects of the new policies,
which are embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan (1978-82), are: (a) emphasizing
agricultural production to meet the increasing needs for food of the rapidly
growing population; (b) increasing the rate of economic growth substantially
in order to provide greater employment opportunities and more income to
the poorest segments of the population; (c) raising the investment rate
significantly; (d) giving the Government a more active role in mobilizing
financial and manpower resources, and greater participation in mixed enterprises
in the commercial and productive sectors; and (e) fostering decentralization
of economic and social activity away from the capital city through the
creation of development poles and voluntary settlement of the peasant population
in villages. To facilitate the implementation of its strategy, the Government
strengthened the role of planning by elevating the planning organization
to the rank of Ministry and by giving it a key role in selecting and monitoring
public investment.
6.        Recent Economic Developments.   The period 1977-79 constitutes
an important phase in Burundi's economic history, as it has witnessed an
acceleration of economic growth as well as a major effort by the Government
to raise the country's investment rate, traditionally among the lowest
in the developing world. During this relatively short period, the volume
of investment grew by about 75 percent, and the investment rate rose to
more than 12 percent of GDP. However, this effort, which was led and implemented
by the public sector, had important repercussions on the pattern of domestic
demand, domestic inflation, and the mobilization of domestic and external
financial resources.
7.        The growth of domestic demand in Burundi accelerated in the last
few years owing mainly to high producer prices for coffee during 1976 and
1977, and to the rapid growth of public sector expenditures during 1978
and 1979. Public consumption and investment expanded at a rate almost
triple that of the private sector during the period 1976-79. Government's
expenditures more than doubled in current terms and increased from about
16 percent of GDP in 1976 to 21 percent in 1979. Capital expenditures,
particularly for infrastructure and for the financing of public enterpri-
ses, contributed most to this growth. The government overall deficit,
which increased from about 3.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.3 percent in
1979, was covered to an increasing extent through recourse to the domestic
banking system (about half in 1979).
8.        The sharp expansion of domestic credit was the main cause of
the almost 30 percent rate of inflation in 1979, although rising import
prices were also a contributing factor. Owing mainly to high transporta-
tion costs, import prices increased by 33 percent in 1979, more than twice
the international inflation rate. During 1980, domestic credit did not
expand much further, and, in spite of continued high inflationary pressures



-3-
from abroad, domestic inflation has according to preliminary estimates
slowed down significantly to about 15 percent.
9.        Burundi's external current account registered surpluses in 1976
and 1977 but showed deficits in 1978 and 1979. In 1979, the current account
deficit was about US$57 million, equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Underlying
this shift was an adverse movement in the country's terms of trade as well
as an unprecedented increase (55 percent) in the volume of imports. Owing
mainly to a 30 percent fall in the terms of trade, Burundi's current account
deficit widened to US$100 million in 1980, equivalent to 11 percent of
GDP. By December 31, 1980, however, Burundi's international reserves still
stood at the comfortable level of US$95 million, equivalent to five months
of imports, a legacy of the 1976-77 coffee-boom years. The country's growing
deficit has been financed mainly with project-related aid to the Government
and parastatals from multilateral and bilateral agencies. During 1979-
80, these flows averaged US$72 million per annum ( equivalent to 36 percent
of Burundi's 1979-80 imports), compared to US$18 million in 1976.
10.       External Assistance, Major Issues and Prospects.  Because of
the unfavourable outlook for world coffee prices, the medium-term prospects
of the economy are not good (coffee exports constitute about.90 percent
of Burundi's merchandise exports). According to current forecasts, the
price for coffee could fall by as much as one-third in real terms between
1979 and 1984. The impact of this decline in Burundi would have to be
absorbed by the small farmers (through lower producer prices in real terms)
and by the Government (through lower coffee tax receipts in real terms).
Even with a drastic policy of demand restraint, it will be difficult for
Burundi to reduce its current account deficit below 9 percent of GDP.
11.       Burundi's future external capital requirements are likely to
be much higher than in the recent past. In order to sustain a growth rate
of the economy of about 4% p.a. in real terms, medium-and long-term external
capital requirements would have to double to an average of about US$155
million p.a. in current prices during the period 1981-84. Although Burundi
has been remarkably successful in mobilizing external resources, recently
a few high priority agricultural projects have not attracted sufficient
financing. The composition of aid flows also would have to be changed,
since direct balance of payments support (and/or commodity assistance for
essential imports) would have to be provided to a greater extent than before.
12.       Restraining the growth of domestic demand and stimulating the
productive sectors would help Burundi obtain needed external aid. This
would imply close coordination of policies on several fronts: government
expenditures, the taxation of consumer goods and imports, as well as price
policies. Together with the Government's investment program, a more flexible
pricing strategy should constitute the cornerstone of a policy to expand
domestic production. In recent months, the Government has taken important
steps in this direction by raising significantly electricity and water
tariffs, domestic transport fares, gasoline retail prices, and lifting
selectively rent controls.



-4-
13.       If Government policies are successful in slowing down the growth
of consumption from an average of over 5 percent p.a. in real terms during
the period 1976-79 to about 3 percent p.a. during the period 1980-84, the
expected decline in the terms of trade would still lead to a significant
fall in Burundi's domestic saving rate. Public savings play a most important
role with respect to the latter. Reversing the erosion in the Government's
financial situation will require restraint in current expenditures and
a wide-ranging rationalization of Government's programs.
14.       Because of the expected financial constraints, it is highly unlikely
that during the period 1980-84 the volume of investment can be much more
than half of that envisaged in the Plan. Nevertheless, even this reduced
level would still allow the economic growth mentioned above (para. 11)
as well as some increase in the investment rate. Also, a lower level of
investment would be more in line with the country's implementation capacity.
15.       The Government has already taken some steps to reduce investment
levels, but an important issue remains whether the Government will attain
its objective of directing investment to the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture. Population pressure on available land, and its adverse effects
on soil fertility, foodcrop production and nutrition, underlines the urgency
of accelerating rural development. The Government recently launched a
number of integrated rural development projects which, over the next few
years, are expected to benefit an increasing number of small farmers.
However, the preparation of integrated rural development projects has been
hindered by limited knowledge of intensified cultural practices and of
the willingness of small farmers to adopt them. The first major projects,
scheduled to begin implementation in 1981, remain in many respects experimental
and will have to be complemented by adaptive research.
16.       Government policy is to establish regional development companies
(RDCs) to promote integrated rural development, appropriate technology,
village-level organizations, and decentralization of Government services.
To this effect, the RDCs will manage all agricultural, forestry and veterinary
Government staff working in the proposed project areas. These integrated
rural development schemes cut across the functions of various ministerial
departments. Although the Government expects RDCs to cover eventually
part, if not all, of their expenditures with their own earnings, opportunities
to make commercial profits will develop only slowly, and RDCs will probably
depend on Government budgetary allocations for a number of years. In spite
of this financial dependence, the Government intends to endow the RDCs with
full management autonomy.
17.       Despite certain successes, a number of parastatals have been
affected by inadequate coordination with the central Government, management
problems, lack of career incentives for staff, financial weaknesses and,
in the case of agricultural parastatals, lack of small farmer participation
owing to insufficient incentives. Increasing the efficiency of the parastatal
sector constitutes a top Government priority. With IDA assistance, the
Government is assessing the situation of the parastatal sector with the
intention of providing it with the resources, autonomy and flexibility
it requires to achieve satisfactory economic and financial performance.



-5-
18.       To complement the efforts made by the RDCs, it is also necessary
to promote rural development more actively by stimulating the activities
of small and decentralized organizations such as Government-sponsored and
private cooperatives as well as private secular and religious groups, and
by supporting the communal efforts under the UPRONA party. The scope
and efficiency of the activities of communes (the basic administrative
unit) could be greatly improved by providing more resources to local authorities.
Available evidence suggests that these organizations can play a key role
as "transmission belts" between the small farmers and the rest of the economy.
Rural development projects now face the difficult challenge of combining
the vertical integration needed for increasing the production and quality
of coffee with the more participatory arrangements necessary for increasing
foodcrop production and meeting other basic needs. This reconciliation
is critical since the satisfaction of basic nutritional needs guides to
a large extent the socioeconomic behaviour of the farm family. The scarcity
of land is already such that in a number of regions farmers face a choice
between continuing coffee cultivation and gradually shifting to foodcrop
production.
19.       If the Government continues to focus on development, pursues
improvements in policies and strengthens its administration, it may achieve
a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per capita incomes. If mining of
Burundi's nickel resources proves feasible, the prospects over the next
ten years would be much better. However, the commercial viability of exploiting
these deposits has yet to be established. Regional development in Central
Africa will also be important to Burundi's economy. In September 1976,
Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a convention establishing the "Economic
Community of the Countries of the Great Lakes". The Community, which has
its seat in Gisenyi, Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying
intra-regional trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A
major objective of the Community is the electrification of the Great Lakes
region. The three countries have also agreed to set up a joint development
bank, to exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu, and to develop a fishing
industry around Lake Tanganyika. They have also instructed the Secretariat
to investigate ways of improving the transport system around the lakes
in order to ease the transport bottlenecks affecting Burundi and Rwanda.
20.       In the 1977-80 period, total long-term capital inflows to Burundi
amounted to about US$220 million, of which US$90 million (41 percent) was
in the form of grants. Most of the assistance comes from the UN agencies,
Belgium, the European Development Fund, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany,
and the People's Republic of China. On December 31, 1979, Burundi's external
medium and long-term debt amounted to about US$103 million (excluding undisbursed
amounts), of which IDA held 25 percent. Debt service averaged 8.5 percent
of export earnings. Due to the important proportion of grants in external
assistance, IDA will probably continue to hold an important proportion
of Burundi's outstanding debt. Notwithstanding the relatively low debt
service ratio, Burundi, because of its poverty and the instability of its
export earnings, is unable to absorb any borrowing on commercial terms.
External aid should therefore be on grant or very concessional terms and
should continue to include a substantial share of local cost financing.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, fifteen credits
have been made totalling US$92.9 million; one credit (US$1.1 million) helped
improve water supply to Bujumbura; four credits (US$17.3 million) were
for agriculture (two for coffee production, one for fisheries and one for
forestry); three credits (US$19.4 million, including an engineering credit
of US$400,000) helped start a highway maintenance and improvement program;
a US$10.0 million credit is supporting the improvement of primary education
and a second one of US$15.0 million finances vocational and technical training;
two credits (US$4.0 million) were made for technical assistance and the
National Economic Development Bank received a credit of US$3.4 million.
A US$15.0 million credit for an Urban Project aiming at improving the conditions
of the poor in the city of Bujumbura, and a US$7.7 million credit for a
Telecommunications Project became effective in October 1980 and January
1981, respectively. The Second Coffee Project and the Fisheries Project
are being cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (US$1.0
million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2 million), respectively. The Second
Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0 million. The Forestry Project
is cofinanced with a credit of US$1.2 million equivalent made from the
EEC Special Action Account. In August 1980, IFC appraised a glass container
Project. This project was recently negotiated. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and notes on the execution of projects and the
status of disbursements as of March 31, 1981. A Credit for a Third Highway
Project (US$25.0 million) was approved by the Board in April 1981 a Nickel
Exploration Project (US$4.0 million) was approved in May 1981.
22.       Project performance has been hampered by the shortage of local
management capacity and technical skills which is likely to remain a major
constraint to development for some time to come. This situation has particularly
delayed the execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee Projects,
although the implementation of the Second Coffee Project has recently improved.
Problems encountered in the execution of IDA-financed projects were discussed
with the Government during the Second Country Implementation Review held
in Bujumbura in June 1980. Recommendations were made in particular regarding
the training of local staff, accounting, audits and disbursement procedures.
Given existing constraints, however, project performance is, on the whole,
satisfactory.
23.       Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at reversing
the decline in agricultural productivity, improving the transport and commu-
nication network, developing energy resources and strengthening absorptive
capacity through training and technical assistance. A second rural develop-
ment and coffee improvement project (Ngozi III) is to be presented to the
Board shortly. A pilot project to assist the local construction industry
has been appraised. The Second Technical Assistance Project is assisting
the Government in its efforts to improve the planning process and the manage-
ment of the public enterprise sector. A third technical assistance credit
aiming principally at continuing these efforts and assisting in the res-
tructuring of the public enterprise sector is to be appraised in September
1981. A sector mission visited Burundi in May 1981 to determine priority
areas in the energy sector.



-7-
PART III.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.       Burundi is essentially an agricultural economy relying on subsistence
farming and coffee as its main export crop. Over the last few years, agriculture
has accounted for about 60 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and provided
almost all of the foreign exchange earnings, with coffee contributing about
90 percent and animals skins, tea and cotton making up most of the rest.
During the same period, food imports accounted for about 15 percent of
the total value of merchandise imports. More than 90 percent of Burundi's
population derives its livelihood directly from agriculture and much of
the rest is directly or indirectly dependent on it for employment. Agriculture
faces the following serious constraints: (a) the scarcity of arable lands
and the small size of the farms, problems which are compounded by the high
rate of population growth which increases pressure on land; (b) the low
level of farmers' income which limits their ability to purchase fertilizers,
pesticides and other inputs; (c) the inefficiency of the Government extension
services; and (d) the soil erosion and degradation caused by the cultivation
of steep slopes, inadequate anti-erosion measures, burning of agricultural
residues and grass, overgrazing, little or no fallow practice and the lack
of fertilizer application. All these factors have contributed to a decline
in per capita foodcrop production over the last decade and a worsening
of the already poor nutritional standards of most of the rural population.
25.       By law, all land belongs to the Government but in practice tenure
is regulated by a combination of traditional laws and modern regulations.
Under the traditional system, individuals are granted usufruct rights over
land and own all the crops produced on that land. These rights are usually
hereditary.  Uncultivated land belongs or automatically reverts to the
Government. However, to expropriate cultivated land, the Government must
pay compensation.
26.       There are an estimated 650,000 farming units, with the average
farm size below one hectare. In coffee areas farmers typically allocate
no more than ten percent of their land to coffee, and the rest to foodcrops.
About half of the farming is done by women. Farming tools are rudimentary
and limited mainly to a hoe for digging up the ground and a machete for
cutting grass. Few farmers use pesticides or fertilizers. In addition
to being the mainstay of the subsistence economy, foodcrops represent the
most important source of money income for farmers. Export crops, mainly
coffee and to a lesser extent cotton and tea, provide about 20 percent
of rural cash income.
27.       About one quarter of the farmers raise livestock.  Cattle are
bred extensively, more for prestige than for economic and nutritional reasons.
The herd size is estimated at about 800,000 heads of cattle. In addition,
there are some 600,000 goats, 300,000 sheep and about 35,000 pigs. Given
the rapid decline of grazing lands, the competition between grazing and
agriculture for the same land in many areas and the deeply ingrained social
attitudes which affect the way people raise cattle, it is urgent that the
Government define a national livestock policy.  The Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Project for the Ngozi region (para. 23) is expected to finance a study
to analyze the livestock subsector and to assist the Government in establi-



-8-
shing a national livestock development policy. Annual fish production
has varied between 12,000 and 21,000 tons in recent years. Yields could
be significantly increased in Lake Tanganiyka and there is a potential
for developing fish ponds. Burundi forest resources occupy about 3 percent
of the country's total area and are being rapidly depleted.
28.       Modern agricultural techniques are used:  (a) in the settlement
schemes called "paysannats"; (b) in industrial plantations; and (c) in
irrigation schemes. Settlement schemes were started in 1949 to transfer
people from the densely populated central plateau area to the sparsely
populated lowlands. To date, settlements cover about 40,000 ha and produce
crops such as cotton, rice and sugar cane. Industrial plantations of ro-
busta coffee are privately owned and cover an area of about 800 ha; they
produce about 75 percent of Burundi's robusta coffee. Industrial planta-
tions of tea cover about 4,630 ha and belong to the Government.
29.       Because of the limited quantity of surplus production, inadequate
storage and the lack of organized marketing facilities, only 5 to 10 percent
of total foodcrop production is marketed by private traders in traditional
markets. Foodcrop prices are determined principally by supply and demand,
and vary from region to region. In 1977, the Government established a
parastatal marketing company (SOBECOV) in order to stabilize food prices
and supply. This company has had so far little impact and is experiencing
financial and management difficulties. Marketing cooperatives are supported
by religious missions or by the Government. The major problems faced by
the cooperatives are lack of trained personnel, insufficient working capital
and inadequate or non-existent infrastructure. A project financed by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) in the Ngozi province is successfully
addressing some of these problems. Producer prices for export crops are
set by the Government and marketing is regulated by the relevant public
company (para. 34).
The Coffee Sub-Sector.
30.       About 95 percent of Burundi's coffee is of the Arabica variety
grown exclusively by smallholders. The main smallholder coffee growing
areas are Ngozi, Gitega and Muyinga provinces; Ngozi provides over one
third of total production. Most of the production is exported. Mainly
due to weather, Burundi coffee production and exports fluctuate greatly.
Annual production of green coffee has varied between 17,000 and 23,000
tons in recent years. Coffee husbandry standards vary, but mulching could
be much improved in general. Although there are no reliable data, it is
estimated that yields are low, and have been generally decreasing except
in the area of the two IDA-financed coffee projects. About three quarters
of the coffee crop is still pulped by hand on the farms and most of the
rest is pulped at some 325 handpulping centers. Because of frequent breakdowns
the productivity of these centers is low. About 4 percent of the coffee
is processed in washing stations built under two IDA Credits (para. 40).
In general, coffee quality suffers from indiscriminate picking, poor processing
and drying, and inadequate storage and hulling.
31.       Parchment coffee is sold by farmers directly to private traders
licensed by the Government-controlled Industrial Crop Development Office
(OCIBU), or to the washing stations. For the most part private traders
are independent businessmen who have developed strong economic ties with



-9-
the local population and lend money to farmers during the off-season.
Parchment coffee is transported to Bujumbura and delivered to OCIBU for
hulling, grading, packaging and sale to the exporting company (BCC) (para. 34)
at a set price. Producer prices of parchment coffee and coffee cherries
are set before the beginning of each season by the Government in relation
to the expected export price. The Government guarantees the purchase of
all coffee presented for sale during the coffee season. In recent years,
this pricing policy has guaranteed a satisfactory minimum price to the
farmers, and provided the Government with an important source of revenue
after contributions to a Stabilization Fund (whose purpose is to protect
producer prices from export price variations). Although the level of coffee
prices received by farmers represents a reasonable proportion of import
prices, it is expected that the price level will become a major issue in
the future in view of (a) relatively high domestic inflation, (b) increased
cost of inputs; (c) declining international coffee prices (para. 32);
and (d) the possibility of competition between coffee and foodcrop cultivation.
It was agreed during negotiations that IDA and the Government would exchange
views each year on Government policy relating to coffee production (Section
3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
32.       Burundi's exports represent about one half of one percent of
world exports. Over 60 percent of Burundi's semi-washed coffee is sold
in the United States. The small quantities of high quality fully washed
coffee produced so far have been sold on the European market. Coffee demand
from importing countries is expected to increase by 2.5 percent a year
during the next decade. Prices in 1977 constant dollars averaged $3.18/kg
in 1978 and are expected to decline gradually to $1.85 in 1983 and then
to increase progressively to $2.30 in 1990. These projections are to be
taken within the context of crop uncertainties and of the practice of some
exporting countries to grant discounts in return for a guarantee to purchase
an agreed volume. Investments in washing stations under the proposed Project
(para. 50) would allow Burundi to supply quality coffee which would be
sold at a premium price. The six-year International Coffee Agreement,
which became effective on October 1, 1976, provides for the introduction
of export quotas when prices fall below a specified level. With a total
production of below 400,000 bags per annum, Burundi is not subject to quotas
and is entitled to a production increase of 5% per annum. The estimated
incremental coffee production from the proposed Project falls within this
range.
Agricultural Services
33.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for
direction and coordination of all activities in the agricultural and live-
stock sector. It operates through three General Directorates, for Planning,
Agriculture and Livestock. Agricultural services are regionalized with
most departments represented at the level of "arrondissements" (which is
the intermediate level of administration between the provinces and the
coimnunes). The Ministry of Rural Development was created in 1979 to take
over the responsibility of rural housing, water supply and electricity,



-10-
and cooperatives. Both Ministries are understaffed. Most of the Government
recurrent budget for agriculture, representing only 3 to 5 percent of the
total recurrent budget in the past decade, finances the central services
of the Ministries. Extension services are fragmented among the Ministry
of Agriculture, parastatal organizations and various projects and, in most
cases, are weak.
34.       The three parastatals dealing with the main export crops (coffee,
cotton and tea) are basically supply and marketing organizations. The
coffee organization, OCIBU (which has been the executing agency for the
First and Second Coffee Improvement Project, financed by IDA) is primarily
concerned with ensuring that Burundi coffee quality is in accordance with
internationally recognized standards. It also establishes and maintains
communal coffee hand pulpers and washing stations; imports, distributes
and supervises the use of pesticides, fertilizers and other coffee-related
inputs and administers the Coffee Stabilization Fund and a Coffee Promotion
Fund. OCIBU also controls internal coffee marketing and operates four
hulling factories. OCIBU's resources come from taxes levied on coffee
exports and from loans and grants from Government. Coffee export is the
responsibility of the Burundi Coffee Company (BCC), a parastatal under
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
35.       Agricultural research is carried out by the Burundi Institute
of Agricultural Sciences (ISABU). Due to lack of staff and equipment ISABU
has so far been unable to assign personnel exclusively to coffee research.
Burundi has four secondary level agricultural institutes from which about
170 agronomists, veterinary technicians and field assistants graduate each
year. Women have recently been admitted to these institutes for the first
time. The Agricultural Department at Bujumbura University produces about
a dozen graduates per year. Although almost all the graduates of these
institutions are employed by the Ministry of Agriculture, their number
is still not sufficient to meet the country's needs for trained agricultural
manpower and a heavy input of expatriate technical assistance is required.
36.       Agricultural credit is not well developed in Burundi.  The Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), created in 1967, is the only
source of medium-term agricultural credit, but such credit represented
only 10 percent of its loans outstanding at the end of 1978. The lack
of a nationwide network, the high risks involved given the small size of
farms and the farmers' low incomes, and the lack of trained staff are the
main obstacles which have prevented BNDE from becoming an effective vehicle
of rural credit. Commercial banks finance seasonal working capital needs
of traders but do not extend credit to farmers who are considered too high
a risk. A new financial institution (CAMOFI) was established in 1979 to
provide financing for development projects implemented by public enterprises;
its role in rural development projects, however, has been so far quite
limited. Under financing from the Second Technical Assistance Project
(para. 16),the feasibility of establishing an agricultural credit institution
is being reviewed.
Government Objectives.
37.       The Government's third Five-Year Economic and Social Development
Plan (1978-82) declares agriculture as the priority sector. The Plan's
main objectives are soil protection, food self-sufficiency, import substitution



-11-
(wheat, sugar, tobacco, wood), expansion and diversification of exports
(sugar, quinine, fruits and vegetables), development of livestock and fishing,
arresting deforestation, and increasing the retuin on existing investments.
The Plan aims, by pursuing these objectives, to raise rural incomes, improve
nutrition, settle young couples in less densely populated areas, and improve
rural social and cultural services. Rural areas are to benefit from 57
percent of total investment (22% of direct investments and 35% of related
infrastructure). Because of the constraints mentioned above (para. 33),it
is, however, estimated that less than 50 percent of the plan objectives
were met during the period 1978-80. Moreover, investments in the agricultural
sector are being implemented more slowly than investments in other sectors.
38.       To achieve the Plan objectives, the Government is encouraging
the creation of cooperatives (para. 29), and is establishing Regional Development
Companies (RDC), which would integrate Government services in a single
organization, under independent management (para. 16). The RDCs are financially
autonomous legal entities, whose sole equity owner is the Government.
They are essentially public service institutions and their commercially
oriented activities are expected to be very limited in scope. Their investment
and operating costs will therefore be mostly covered by Government
subsidies. The RDCs' main function is to become gradually responsible for
all rural development activities including the delivery of agricultural
inputs and the implementation of specific projects financed either by the
Government or by external donors. The management of coffee washing stations
and of handpulping centers is also to be transferred from OCIBU to the
RDCs. To date, four RDCs have already been created.
IDA Operations in the sector.
39.       Four IDA Credits have been made for agricultural projects and
a fifth one will be presented to the Board shortly (para. 23). In addition,
the Second Technical Assistance Credit finances the services of experts
to assist the Ministries of Agriculture in the identification and preparation
of new projects, in the start-up, monitoring and evaluation of ongoing projects,
and in the establishment of a data collection system on agricultural production.
Overall project implementation has been satisfactory although the provision
of budgetary funds has been a recurrent problem and the fisheries project
has encountered some difficulties (Annex II).
40.       The First Coffee Improvement Project (Ngozi I) has been completed.
The principal objective of the project, which was implemented from 1969
to 1976 under the responsibility of OCIBU, was to increase coffee production
and improve the quality of coffee grown by about 44,000 smallholders in
the Ngozi region. The Project included the following components: (a) strengthening
of extension services; (b) distribution of fertilizers, other inputs and
tools to farmers; (c) construction and operation of four washing stations
and rehabilitation of handpulping centers; (d) fertilizer trials; and (e)
repair of bridges on access roads. The Second Coffee Improvement Project
(Ngozi II) which started in 1976, was to continue the activities started
under the first project and to develop fooderop production. It also included
experimental rural development activities, including the improvement of
small livestock, the use of water mills and the establishment of farmers'
cooperatives. The project is expected to be fully disbursed by September
30, 1981. A Project completion report on the Ngozi I Project was issued
in September 1976, a Project Performance Audit Report in March 1977, and
an Impact Evaluation Report on February 2, 1981.



-12-
41.       The main conclusions of these reports are that in the absence
of reliable data, it is impossible to assess the impact of the Ngozi I
Project on the increase in coffee production. Staffing and procurement
problems also delayed anC' seriously hindered project implementation. Incre-
mental income was estimated at less than US$10 dollars per farm household
at full development. Implementation of the Second Project has also been
affected by many problems, including (a) a high management turnover of
both expatriate and local staff (b) lack of an adequate supply of construc-
tion materials due to transport difficulties; (c) a weak and inefficient
extension workforce as well as lack of management follow-up in foodcrop
development which resulted in a relative failure of the foodcrop component;
(d) delays in availability of Government counterpart funds and absence
of prefinancing mechanism for working capital needs. The achievements of
the Project to date include: (i) the construction and better management
of the washing stations as a result of the recruitment of competent managers
and the growing confidence of the farmers in them; (ii) a well-run cons-
truction service which has been able to construct buildings and repair
roads at acceptable standards, much below prevailing market prices; (iii)
the establishment and maintenance of coffee nurseries throughout the Project
area.
42.       Detailed reviews of the first project and a preliminary review
of the second underline a number of important lessons. They include:
(i) Data Base - A more reliable data base and better monitoring of Project
activities are essential for assessing the Project impact. (ii) Socio-
Economic Environment - It is important to understand the relationships
between farmers, traders and extension workers in the Project area and
the factors that are likely to influence their behavior. (iii) Management
and Organization - The general shortage of trained manpower in Burundi
and the weakness of the extension services make it important to assess
the training needs of the Project staff and take appropriate measures to
satisfy them. It is also important to ensure staff continuity. Finally,
the technical package to be extended to the farmers must be understood
by extension workers and they must be able to communicate it to the farmers.
(iv) Prices - Participation of the farmers and the success of the develop-
ment programs depend on appropriate prices being paid to farmers for their
coffee. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
proposed Project, in particular through: (a) provision for a monitoring
and evaluation system that would ensure adequate data collection (para. 56;
(b) the emphasis put on training (para. 55) and the reduction of the Project's
scope and complexity; (c) provision for a periodic review of coffee
prices to producers (para. 31), and the establishment of a prefinancing
mechanism (para. 60).



-13-
PART IV. THE PROJECT
43.          The proposed Project was appraised in July-August 1980.  Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from May 5 to May 7, 1981. The Government dele-
gation was led by Mr. Sabimbona, Ambassador of Burundi in Washington. A detailed
description of the Project components can be found in the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 3230-BU), dated May 19, 1981, which is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the Project are highlighted
in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. Special
conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex III.
The Project Area
44.          The Project area covers six communes which form a well defined
ecological zone and are placed under the administrati)je authority of the provinces
of Gitega and Muramvya. It has a surface of 1,400 km and a population
of over 220 inhabitants per km2, totalling 320,000. The area is made up of
rolling hills with intensively cultivated slopes and small flat valley bottoms.
Its altitude varies from 1,500 to 2,000 m.    Soils are slightly flooded or
saturated with water during the rainy season. The production potential of
the valley bottom soils is expected to be satisfactory once they are drained;
that of the slopes ranges from average to good but large sections on steep
slopes are subject to serious water erosion. The Project area has a tropical
climate moderated by altitude which allows a wide range of crops. The area
has a relatively dense road network; most roads are passable during the rainy
season.
45.          A number of development projects have been implemented or are
in progress in the Project area: (a) the FAO fertilizer program, implemented
between 1972 and 1979, which demonstrated that fertilizers, when properly
applied, can have a significant impact on foodcrops, especially beans, and
can be financially viable at the farm level; (b) the integrated rural develop-
ment project of Gitega - Karuzi which is under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Rural Development and consists of pilot activities in the use of appropriate
technology for grain conservation, water collection and storage methods,
training of extension workers, the launching of a small cooperative program
for egg production, the supply of fertilizer and a social welfare program
for women; (c) a seed multiplication and distribution program to finance 13
multiplication centers throughout the country and the distribution of improved
seeds; the program is being implemented over a five year period (1978-82)
with assistance from the Belgian Technical Cooperation; and (d) a water supply
project financed by UNICEF and Canadian Bilateral Aid aiming at rehabilitating
or developing water springs. The proposed project has been designed to draw
on the experience of these projects and to integrate some of their activities
and staff. In particular, the local staff employed by the Gitega-Raruzi Project
would be transferred to the Regional Development Company (RDC) which would
be responsible for the implementation of the proposed project (para. 57).
The RDC would also assume responsibility for the two seed multiplication centers
which are located in the Project area, and would rehabilitate or develop
about 180 springs in the Kirimiro area to reinforce the UNICEF Water Supply
Project.



-14-
Objectives and Description of the Project
46.           The proposed Project would aim at (i) assisting smallholders
to improve the productivity of coffee and foodcrop cultivation; (ii) improving
the quality of exported coffee; and (iii) improving rural living conditions
by building or maintaining water sources, and developing wood resources to
be used as fuelwood, building poles and timber. By establishing a new RDC
(paras. 57-58) and strengthening its management capability through training
and technical assistance, the Project would also contribute to institution
building.
47.          The Project, which would be implemented over six years on the
basis of Annual Work Programs, would include the following components:
(a)    a program to improve extension services and provide agricul-
tural inputs;
(b)    construction and equipping of 6 coffee washing stations and
12 hand pulping centers and improvement of the operation and
maintenance of all hand pulping centers in the Project area;
(c)    afforestation and erosion control;
(d)    improvement of the road network and water supply system;
(e)    pilot activities to promote agricultural production and improve
the living conditions of the rural population;
(f)    studies, research and Project monitoring;
(g)    staff training; and
(h)    establishment of the RDC and provision of technical assis-
tance for Project implementation.
48.          Extension Services and Provision of Inputs.  Existing extension
services would be developed and strengthened through on-the-job training of
existing workers who are in sufficient numbers. The extension program for
coffee would include the provision and distribution of inputs, principally
fertilizers, pesticides and seedlings, the setting up of a network of demons-
tration plots, the training of farmers in improved coffee husbandry, erosion
control and pesticide application measures. The foodcrop farming program
would be simple and would focus on improved seeds, fertilizer use, seeding,
spacing and weeding techniques, and disease and insect control. Government
policy on the import of fertilizers and their pricing to farmers has not been
consistent in recent years which has resulted in variable and insufficient
levels of fertilizers imports to satisfy demand. It has been found that ferti-
lizers can have a significant impact on foodcrop yields if properly applied
and on coffee yields if combined with high standards of coffee husbandry.
However, there are no data to identify the constraints to fertilizer use,
to assess the price elasticity of demand and to indicate the extent of unsatis-
fied demand.



-15-
49.          Under the Project, inputs would be sold at cost to farmers (excluding
the distribution cost of the RDC), except pesticides for coffee, which
would continue to be supplied free of charge in the context of nationwide
campaigns. As for fertilizers, at present they are obtained in small quantities
through external aid programs and sold to farmers with a subsidy of about
25%; pending the definition of a new fertilizer policy, this level of subsidi-
zation would be maintained. Systematic surveys would be carried out under
the Project monitoring system to gather and interpret data which would assist
the Government in defining a fertilizer policy; it is expected that by the
end of Project year 3 these surveys will have yielded sufficient information
for this purpose. In the context of the definition of this policy, attention
would be given to devising a pricing policy for fertilizers and inputs which
would aim at gradually increasing the RDC's revenues, in particular through
the introduction of a margin to cover the RDC's costs. This matter would
be reviewed during the annual exchange of views which is to take place between
the Government and the Association on policies related to coffee production
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.          Washing Stations and Pulping Centers.  The purpose of the washing
stations would be to improve the quality of processed coffee from semi-washed
to fully washed, a grade which attracts a higher price in international markets.
In addition to the construction and equipping of 6 new stations, the Project
would finance training of Burundian nationals at all levels to operate the
washing stations. The management of the handpulping centers, now under OCIBU,
would be transferred to the RDC. A technical committee would be set up to
define the technical operating norms of the washing stations and monitor the
RDC's compliance with them.(Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The operations of the washing stations would be reviewed annually in
the context of the Annual Work Programs.
51.          Afforestation and Erosion Control.  The objectives of the forestry
program would be to provide fuelwood, poles and timber which are in very short
supply. About 2,000 ha of land would be planted with trees. Seedlings would
be produced by the RDC and supplied to the farmers at cost. Where appropriate,
the Project would utilize nurseries of the on-going forestry project. The
erosion control program would consist of the planting of anti-erosion hedges
on individual holdings, controlled burning and controlled grazing on communal
land, and tree planting.
52.          Road and Water Supply Network.  Although most of the road network
is passable even during the rainy season (para 44), access roads must be built
and some improvements are necessary to facilitate the shipment of coffee from
the washing stations by heavier trucks. The road improvement component, which
would be carried out by force account by the RDC, would consist of construc-
tion of about 25 small bridges and about 10 km of new access roads and mainte-
nance of the most frequently utilized roads (100 km). Secondary roads mainte-
nance would continue to be carried out by the communes through community labor.
The maintenance of the existing water supply system would be improved through
training and supervision of fountain assistants presently employed by the
Government. Financing would also be provided for the construction of about



-16-
180 new springs and wells to be carried out by the RDC or sub-contracted to
UNICEF (para 45).
53.          Pilot Activities.  A number of pilot activities would be undertaken
under the Project to test on a small scale the feasibility of programs for
which well defined technical packages have not yet been developed. They are
expected to include livestock services, the development of farmers cooperatives,
the improvement of foodcrops storage and marketing, the development
of selected valley bottoms in swampy areas, and the establishment of social and
nutrition centers which would teach hygiene and nutrition and could become
the nucleus of a family planning program. The RDC would absorb the Burundian
staff of some of the on-going projects in the area (para. 45), recruit and
train additional female social workers and continue the program on appropriate
technology. The activities of these social workers would relate to home impro-
vement, hygiene and nutrition. Each of the pilot activities would be proposed
by the RDC and discussed with IDA in the context of the Annual Work Programs.
54.          Studies.  Project activities would include a socio-economic survey
of the Project area which would (i) serve as a basis for the Project Monitoring
and Evaluation System; (ii) analyze farm production systems, including data
on farm size, land tenure, distribution of farmers' plots, yields, crop storage
and losses, use of inputs, farm budgets, formal and informal credit, and consumption;
(iii) identify the perceived needs and priorities of the rural population;
and (iv) identify the main constraints to socio-economic development in
the Project area. A study of the marketing of foodcrops in the Project area
would also be carried out by the RDC or by consultants. A systematic analysis
and review of the livestock subsector is urgently required. However a study
of the livestock sector has been included in the Integrated Rural Development/Ngozi III
Project (para. 21), and therefore no financing for it has been included
under this Project. Other studies might become necessary as the Project
is implemented, and funds have also been included in the Credit for the preparation
of future rural development projects. To carry out these studies, the
Government would employ consultants whose qualifications, terms and conditions
of employment are satisfactory to IDA and would submit the proposed contracts,
including terms of reference, to the Association for its review and concurrence
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.          Research and Project Monitoring.  In coordination with activities
financed under the proposed Integrated Rural Development/Ngozi III Project,
the Project would support the ISABU coffee and foodcrop research program,
in particular with regard to: (a) testing coffee varieties for yield improvement
and resistance to pest and diseases, with special emphasis on small coffee
trees; (b) fertilizer field trials on coffee and foodcrops; (c) coffee husbandry,
specifically mulching; (d) control of fungus diseases and correlation between
soil types and yields in coffee plantations; (e) mixed foodcrop systems;
(f) integration of cropping and livestock activities; and (g) adaptation of
foodcrop varieties in the area. The research staff would conduct pre-production
trials in farmers' plots to test extension themes and would coordinate the
collection of data with the monitoring and evaluation unit. They would be
responsible for the design and implementation of the seed multiplication program.
Emphasis would be initially on the most important foodcrops such as beans,
maize, cassava and sweet potato. Proposals would be made to ISABU by the
RDC on research needs and activities and would be submitted to IDA for approval
at the beginning of each year in the Annual Work Programs. The Project monitor
ing system would be designed on the basis of the socio-economic study by the
RDC managers, with the assistance of consultants.



-17-
56.          Staff Training.  A training program would be carried out to upgrade
the existing extension staff, to train the staff of the washing stations,
to improve the operation and maintenance of the hand pulping centers, and
to establish and strengthen the RDC's management capability. In some cases,
training for supervisory staff would be provided through fellowships and study
tours abroad. The training of extension staff would be the responsibility
of an internationally recruited training and extension specialist and the
training of the washing station personnel would be conducted by the manager
in collaboration with the training specialist.
57.          Regional Development Company Staffing and Technical Assistance.
The RDC for Kirimiro, which was legally established in November 1980, would
have primary responsibility for Project implementation.  The Project would
finance the construction, equipping, operations and maintenance of buildings
and facilities necessary for the operations of the RDC. The RDC would comprise
the departments of Accounting and Finance, Rural Development, Construction
and Technical. During Project implementation these departments would be headed
by an internationally recruited team of experts working closely with and training
key Burundian staff. The RDC manager, a qualified Burundian, was appointed
in mid-1980 with IDA approval to carry out the preparation activities financed
under the Project Preparation Facility. It is expected that the personnel
to be internationally recruited would be provided by a firm specializing in
the management of rural development projects, and would include the deputy
manager of the RDC for 66 months, as well as experts to head the RDC's Accounting
and Finance Department (66 months), the Rural Development Department (54
months), the Construction Department (54 months) and the Technical Department
(54 months). The Government is now in the process of selecting the technical
assistance team. The terms of reference, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment of the consultants would be satisfactory to the
Association and the consultants would have the necessary authority to carry
out their responsibilities, pursuant to their terms of reference. The proposed
contracts, including terms of reference, would be submitted to the Association
for its review and concurrence (Section 3.02 (a) (b) and (d) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
58.          The Burundian staff would gradually assume increasing responsi-
bilities and eventually replace the expatriates. To ensure satisfactory Project
implementation, a sufficient number of Burundian key staff would be employed
at all times under the Project (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4 of draft Development
Credit Agreement). Under the statutes of existing RDCs, all key national
personnel are appointed by the Chief of State on the basis of proposals from
the Minister of Agriculture. The terms of reference of key Burundian personnel
were discussed at negotiations, and it was agreed that (a) IDA would be consulted
on all appointments to these positions; and (b) the Government would consult
IDA before making any changes in these positions (section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In order to retain qualified Burundian staff,
the RDC would establish a compensation plan which would offer adequate incen-
tives to its staff (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A condition of credit effectiveness would be that, in addition to the RDC
manager, already appointed, the Deputy Manager of the Rural Development Department
and the Chief Accountant have also been employed (Section 6.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



-18-
Implementation
59.          The Project would be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs and budgets prepared by the RDC. The annual work program and budget
would be submitted by June 15 each year to IDA for comments before its review
by the Board of Directors of the RDC and, following Board review, would be
transmitted to IDA, for approval, by the Minister of Agriculture, with his
comments (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Submission
of the first Work Program and Budget for the period September 1981 to December
1982 would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01 (b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). For each year, communication
to IDA of a satisfactory work program would be a condition of disbursement
against activities for that year (Schedule I, para 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
60.          The RDC would be managed by a Board of Directors, and a Management
Committee. The Board of Directors would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture
or his representative and would include five other Ministers or their
representatives (Planning, Economy and Finance, Social Affairs, Trade and
Industry, Rural Development), and a representative of local authorities.
The responsibilities of the Board would be: (i) RDC policy making; (ii) review
and approval of the RDC annual work programs and annual investment and operating
budgets before their submission to the Minister of Agriculture; and (iii)
review and control of current and past performance. The Management Committee
would comprise the manager, four other RDC employees to be approved by the
Board as well as representatives of farmers in the area. It was agreed during
negotiations that the Government should inform IDA, sufficiently in advance,
of any modifications envisaged in the composition of the Board of Directors
of the RDC (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
RDC's equity has been paid in by the Government and its investment and operating
funds would initially be financed through Government grants.
Project Costs and Financing
61.          Total Project costs are estimated at about US$21.4 million, of
which about US$14.5 million or 67% represent foreign exchange costs. These
costs are incremental and do not include salaries for the existing extension
workers who are currently paid for by the Government and would continue to
be paid by the Government under the Project. They do, however, include all
RDC's costs since its establishment represents an investment cost. With respect
to the cost of fertilizers and pesticides, only the incremental requirements
from year to year have been included as they represent an investment cost
of the Project. Project costs were estimated as of June 30 ,1981. A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to reflect the general uncertainty about the
detailed scope of Project investments. Price contingencies were calculated
on a cumulative basis. Local cost contingencies were estimated at 15% for
1981, 12% for 1982, 1983 and 1984, and 10% for 1985 and 1986. Contingencies
for foreign exchange costs were applied at a rate of 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982,
7% in 1983 and 1984 and 6.5% in 1985 and 1986. The total cost of consultant
services, representing 240 man/month, has been estimated at US$2.4 million
excluding contingencies (which corresponds to US$10,000 per staff month,
including fees and international travel, and excluding provision of local
housing and transportation facilities). Taxes and duties included in the
Project costs are negligible since virtually all items would be tax exempt.



-19-
62.          The Project would be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 16.2 million
(US$19.3 million). Funds from the Credit would be made available to the RDC
in form of a grant. The Credit would finance 90 percent of total Project
costs including the equivalent of US$4.8 million in local costs. Government
counterpart funds would be made available to the RDC on a quarterly basis,
and each installment, which would represent one-fourth of the yearly estimated
contribution, would be deposited in the RDC Bank account no later than the
end of the first month of each quarter (section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Deposit of the first installment would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness (section 6.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Under the proposed Project, the RDC would sign an agreement with
CAMOFI (para 36), according to which CAMOFI would provide a line of credit
to the RDC, sufficient to prefinance the expenditures of the RDC under the
proposed Project; repayment of the principal, fees and interest due under
this agreement would be guaranteed by the Government (Section 3.09 (a) and
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Signature of this agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (section 6.01 (d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would also ensure that
the recurrent annual needs of the RDC for fertilizers and pesticides including
subsidies and provision of foreign exchange as necessary, are met. (Section
3.08 (b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). These needs
would be assessed in the Annual Work Programs, and are expected to increase
from about US$50,000 in 1983, to about US$500,000 in 1986 (in 1981 prices).
Procurement
63.          For the supply of fertilizers and pesticides (about US$1.4 million
including contingencies), individual contracts exceeding US$100,000 would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Contracts over US$100,000 for materials, tools, vehicles
and equipment (about US$1.5 million) other than washing stations equipment
would also be awarded following international competitive bidding procedures.
To facilitate the maintenance of the equipment for the washing stations (about
US$250,000), it would be advisable to purchase the same equipment that is
already installed in the existing washing stations of the Ngozi area. This
equipment would therefore be purchased directly from existing suppliers provided
that adequate justification for the award of the contract is provided to
the Association. Contracts costing less than US$100,000 would be awarded
following Government procurement procedures which were examined at appraisal
and found satisfactory, with the provision that quotations would be sought
from all suppliers represented in Burundi (Schedule 3 (C) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). As local and international contractors would be unlikely
to be interested in these small, remote and scattered works, construction
of staff housing, training facilities, offices, warehouses, roads and bridges
(about US$4.0 million) would be done by force account in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. Implementation of the water supply component
(US$0.3 million) may be carried out by UNICEF (para. 45) or on force account
by the RDC (Schedule 3 (C) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
64.          Funds from the Credit account would be allocated in accordance
with the annual work programs and would be disbursed over six years on the



-20-
basis of: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for
equipment and vehicles, (b) 100 percent of foreign and 90% of local expenditures
for incremental inputs including fertilizers and other chemicals; (c) 90%
of total expenditures for civil works and infrastructure, including buildings,
coffee washing stations, hand pulping centers, water supply, rural roads impro-
vement, and afforestation and erosion control; (d) 40% of total expenditures for
salaries and allowances of RDC staff; (e) 90% of total expenditures for other
operating costs for Project implementation; (f) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures for technical assistance; (g) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for studies, research and training;
(h) 90% of total expenditures for pilot projects; (i) 100% of total expendi-
tures and 90% of local expenditures for the preparation of rural development
project; and (j) reimbursement of US$360,000 advance under the Project Prepa-
ration Facility. Disbursements against (a) (b) (f) and (i) would be fully
documented. Disbursements against (c), (d), (e), (g), and (h) would be made
against statements of expenditures certified by the RDC director and by the
administrative and finance manager for local expenditures and against full
documentation for foreign exchange costs. A full documentation would be retained
by the RDC and made available to IDA for inspection in the course of Project
supervision. Upon effectiveness, disbursements would be allowed for expendi-
tures incurred after the date of Board presentation (Schedule I (4) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts, Audits and Project Completion Report
65.           The RDC would maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
all Project activities. These accounts and the statements of expenditures
referred to above (para. 64) would be audited separately by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and would be submitted to the Association within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.)
Benefits and Risks
66.           The directly productive components of the proposed Project are
expected to result in increased foodcrop and coffee production and in impro-
vements of coffee quality. It is expected that the extension service's recom-
mendations would have been adopted by about 28,000 farmers (out of about 70,000
farmers in the Project area) by Project year 12. The RDC is expected to continue
its operations after Project completion and ultimately provide service
to about 100,000 farmers. The economic life of the Project is assumed to
be 40 years. It is estimated that Project activities would help to increase
participating farmers' consumption of food by 20% and their cash incomes by
30% (from a yearly total cash income of US$90 to US$120 equivalent in 1981
prices) by Project year 10. Coffee production would be increased through
better yields and reduced losses; the increase is estimated at 700 tpa by
Project year 10 and 2,000 tpa by Project year 25. The economic rate of return
(ERR) from directly productive components representing 80% of Project cost
has been calculated at 18%. The ERR for the coffee washing station component
would be 20% and for agricultural production, 16%. Foreign exchange was shadow-
priced at 20% above the market rate; if foreign exchange were not shadow
priced, the ERR would increase by about two percentage points. Costs and
benefits arising from the expansion of the RDC's activities to the entire
Kirimiro region and from an increase in adoption rates following post-Project



-21-
activities were taken into account. If these costs and benefits were not
taken into account, the ERR would be 14%, which illustrates the fact that
the proposed Project would be only the initial step in establishing institutional
and physical infrastructures for the development of the Kirimiro region.
The ERR is moderately sensitive to changes in costs and benefits. An increase
of all the costs or a decrease in the benefits by 10% would lower the ERR
by 2.5 percentage points from 18% to 15.5%. A decrease of the costs or an
increase in the benefits by 10% would raise the ERR to 20.5%.
67.          The Project is expected to result in other benefits which are
difficult to quantify. The afforestation and erosion control components would
have a beneficial environmental impact and the increase in foodcrop production
would improve the diet of the rural population. The water supply and social
services activities would improve rural living standards. Finally, the pilot
activities would test hypotheses which might later serve as the basis of future
projects. Government's cash flow (in current prices) would show an annual
average deficit of about US$340,000 during the first ten years. At full develop-
ment in Project year 20 and thereafter, the annual deficit would be about
US$110,000 in 1981 constant prices, which corresponds to about US$0.80 per
farmer's family in the Kirimiro region. The cumulative net foreign exchange
earnings resulting from the Project and from the continuation of the RDC's
activities after Project completion would be positive until about Project
year 30. After year 30, there would be on average a net annual deficit of
about US$1 million each year because of the combined effect of imports of
fertilizers and repayment of the IDA Credit.
68.          The proposed Project involves substantial risks whose full scope
is not reflected in the sensitivity analysis. Successful development in the
Project area would depend on persuading farmers to adopt new techniques relatively
rapidly on a wide scale. Improving the organization and efficiency of
extension services and introducing new programs would be difficult and complex,
but essential to the. success of the Project. Delays could result from problems
in recruiting international or Burundian staff or from slow delivery of materials.
An additional risk is that institutional and technical innovations might
lapse following the investment period, without leaving a viable system for
continuing services and maintaining infrastructure. The Project would seek
to overcome these risks through its institution-building and training components
and through flexible Annual Work Programs. Offsetting these risks are two
factors: first, the possibility of significantly improving the quality of
extension services and raising levels of production substantially; second,
the likelihood that a large number of poor families would increase their cash
incomes and improve their diet. Programs such as the one proposed under this
Project appear to offer the best prospects for development in Burundi; institu-
tional changes and farm-level innovations introduced under this Project should
provide models which could be replicable elsewhere in Burundi in future projects.



-22-
V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separatly.
70.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. The additional conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit are as follows:
(a)    employment of the RDC manager, the Deputy Manager of the
Rural Development Department and the Chief Accountant
(para. 58).
(b)    submission of the annual work program and budget for the
period of September 1981 to December 1982 (para. 59);
(c)    signature of a pre-financing Agreement between RDC and CAMOFI
guaranteed by the Government (para. 62); and
(d)    deposit by the Government of the first quarterly install-
ment, (para. 62).
71.       I am satisfied that the Proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 28, 1981



-23-                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE. 3A                                                      Page  1  of  5
_URUITDI - SOCIAL 1'T1D/AIOPS DATA SHEFI
Pl FUNDI                      REFERNCE. GROUPS I! ElCHTtD AVrP,RAG S,
1A-iD AREA (THOUSASD SO. KH I                                                      - MOST PECEFTT ESTIMATE)-
TITAL             27.8
AGRICULTURAL      17;.                                 MOST RECFNT           LO1 INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1975 /b ESTIIIATE lb   AFPICA SO1TH OF SAHAFA  AFPICA SOUTH DF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   60.0        90.0     180.0                260.0                    868.0
ENE1GY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      11.0/c       16.0      12. 0                80. 0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (IILLIONS)      2. 7         3.4       *.0
U1BAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.2          2.2       2.3                 17.3                     28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        8.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         21.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EFI.                      95.0        121.0    142.0                  27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. EM4. AGRICULTURAL LAND    168.8       208.6     231.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.5         42.5      43.9                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                         54.6        54.7       53. 1                52.2                    51. 6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.9         2.8        3.0                  2.8                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2. 0        2.4       2.1                  2.7                      2.7
'JRBAN                              1. 9        2. 4      3. 2                  6.8                     4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAD)      4& 0         47.0      47.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.0         22.0      20.0                 19.6                     18.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2. 6/d       2.8       3. 1                 3.2                      3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANRUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WEMEN)   ..           *           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0        101.0      9.6                  91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREt4ENTS)                  91.0        98.0       97.0                 90.2                     92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          56.0        61.0       60.0                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0         30.0      30.0                 I8 4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        36.0       28.0                 27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0        42.0       45.0                 45.3                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIHOUSAND)                             .        140.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         .                  23.2                     31.0
URBAN                               ..         77.0      94. 0e               538.0                    66. 8
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 1S.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OE POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         ..                 28.9
URBAN                               ..          ..       95.Ofe               67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         71390.0     55830.0   45020.0               30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6340.0       7490.0    6180.0               5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            820.0        740.0        ..               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                               ..         30. 0
RURAL                               ..       1790.0
AIMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                                 ..                ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        5.0
AV ERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                                      ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                                           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWIELLIPGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                          ..               ..



ANNEX I
-24-
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
BWRUSNDt - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                       REFERl!NC2 CROUPS (WEICITED AVEGCES
- OST RECENT ESTIMATE) _
POST RECENT            LOW  INCOMI             mIDDLE INCOIE
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH oF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     MTtAL                 18.0        30.0       23.0                  57.7                     61. 7
KALE                  27.0        41.0       29.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEUALE                 9.0        20.0       1. 0                 54.1                      51.4
S£COUARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          2. 0      3.0                  MO.O                     20.6
HALE                   1.0         3.0        4.0                  13.7                     29.2
IFEIALE                1.0         1. 0       2.0                   7. 1                    14. 7
VOCATIOKAL EtaOI. (5 OF SECONDARY)  35.0          24.0      13.0                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        37.0       32.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          15.0         12.0     .16.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITEDACY RATE (PERCENT)        13. 9/         .       25.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.9          1.1       1.5                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         20.0        20.0       31.0                  31.5                     83.5
nV RECEIVERS FER THCUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..         ..                   1.8
NEWSPAEa ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CI&CULATION PER
TBDUSAND POPULATIO..                               0.1      0.3                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                            .                    .                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (ThOUSANDS)      1398 7       1715.2    195&80
FEMALE (PERCENr)                   45.1         44.8      44.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGICULTURE (PERCENT)               90.0         87.2      85.0                  80.7                     54.3
TiDUSETRT (PERCENT)                 3.0         3.9        4.8                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                52.7         51.2      49.6                  42.2                     38.8
AZLE                                 51.5         57.2      55 8                  55.1                     48.4
FENAEZ                               47.0         45.3      43.4                  29.5                     29.4
ECONDSIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0. 9         0.9       0.9                   1.2                      1. 3
7NCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT CF PRIVATE INCONE
RECIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                            ..                ..
LMEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEEOLDS                   ..
LWEST 40 PERCENT OF NOUSENOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS                                          -
ESTLIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URA                                  ..           ..     213.0                 138.2
iDEAL                                ..           ..     136.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTT INCCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UtA                                  ..          .           .                 107.0
sumAL                                ..           ..      37.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URAN                                             ..       55 0jA
UAL                                  .            ..      85.0                  66.9
not available
Not applicable.
/c   Tb- group everages for each indicator are population-weighted arittteic aeone.  Coverage of countries
smong the indicators depends on availebility of data and Is not tmifor.
a    Vales othervioe noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between t969
sad 1971; and for Most Recent Estiaste, between 1974 and 1978.
Ji   1962; Ld 1957; le 1979.
Host recent estimate of CNP per capita Is for 1979, population end related estmaZtes have also been
revised; 411 other dats are as ot Apr11, 198O.
0ctober, 1980



ANNEX I
-25-                                                                            Page 3 of 5
DnpMITIomo it SOCiAL. INDtCATeS
Nots:Alhogh  hedae  ted.ta    rnentegnrlpjde   h  met   shorita-ive end reliable,it should also be notd that they eay not be iteta-
aticnaliycompsrohl  hacauco of she teh of enedardimeddefintions an -ocpt. otad by difftoreet cotrc  in -ollecting the data.  The date  m    oe
cllc.uoo   odeerh.   reeof-giae   sdct   rnsbadoa.treecranmt  d                                     _trtetbwenouri.
therfeeo  gop   t   I)eecncaac   no   f the eubject co-try ed Ill     "otry groop eitb sahbt- higher aveag  iniom  thee the country grou
of hesujet  oonry(scae  or  Caitl  uri"a ol .fr        ..ere  gro.  ehy-  'Middle Incom  North Africa en  Middle Cas" iechO-e  becoao  atne
tol -oloalafiglel   So oha   1  -eeee  group data thai avrae  oeoultn   igtdaithmtic  estoac   niaoredaoeol   bea
toast half ot the countries in a group baa deta C on than indicaton.  Since the ocostag. of toontrise among the todicotore depends onh the gavailsbility of
losedis nOtutifo-, otIon  sutho dsnylea  het raaigavrs.ofoeidiaoho                               a              'Ioo li,rss  hr only a-efu In coptigc     ao
ofon  ldicatcr at a tine --ng  the coutry sad cad     - er1scegroups
T-11 agA         toio -can   eqO .)                                                  'eunion car Phbvai"ia   P- po1atio  divided bynssra  practiasag phy-
Totl   Ttalsufae  ms  omrilogLad  re  and island wator.tocsa  qaifid from a   dital sihool so university lvl
f-a    ...i ..coitutall                                                    7                                  P -    ,datimats of agricolmnce  area used t -osriyo  peceoently  Pcealetie  2-r Mues    eo     oaatndivided bynbeofraics
fo-ros   aeos, eacht And hitchan ga -a  or neief sic; 1977 data.               sAlesd female" grdate           s  prrialnres         -s asitatf       aen
GNP PER CAPITA ITS))                                                                                               B u   e   aiaeta sa   orn   ahe   yca   a- Pnito   e   ontlSd - tot. ore -ad rena  - Population (ttate.
~~9-1-d by 1.9-   ootbd   k                                                .~~~~~~~uban  ad rural) dividedbythiespcvetbrobapaled
7ulated b   asioesa  mehd -WoLd Bag  Atlae (1977-79 baehe); 1960,                       sebilaia ispbli .dprivate gonera1 and epeislisod haepital o-M toa
1170, nod  lNSdana.                                             habilitutice~O  cenrtrs.  foepitale ar  eataiaheata psem tl  eta fed
Cccli CiNSiO(PTig Pen CAPItA - dAnu1 csnaption Of csycial enery (col`b orlest onep1hy7odcn   tatbliolanue gro idis  rttpnl:   uaob
sod lignite, pacsm    siaal-a sad hyde-, ssiss  sad geotherml ale-                       catrsot pononatly stffed by s physitias (hot by a medicel esltant,
acicityl to kilogram   Of coal  quival_t par n_Pit.; 196, 1970 , And 1979                ar,  idwife. etc.) nhich Otff  is-pationt ectoadation and peo..14de
data,                                                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~imited ra-s Of  .dica. ftaclities.  Pot  tiatitice1 poepo-a o simg h Lp-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                      ZI.~~~tal   st1ade sea. princirot geesral end sparialieed bnpitale  and meal
titli,slir AS Olin] STATITICS                                  bepital  localor rurl boepital  sod madial and  etriry center.-
TotalPcu1 tor.Hid-ten  fedllion)-  As of July 1; 19h0, 1970, and 1978                    die_on  oatfeootlld- Tote1 imhsr atOdmeif                   to or dionharges
data.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fro  boepitela divtided"!by the  tb-a of bade.
dl-IffeentdetotieI f  rbn asa  m                  adsn cpaubility Of dar            guga
umag co         19i6;0q, 1970, and 1978 data.                                      Avayes lien of Ifousobd fyneon  hat -.on.bold  - icial. ur!ban   n  eei
foculatienPoeto                                                                          A hou.ebold cntt  ofagopc aivid4-l   h.a  haro  Lvieg quator
Poculat  iclovnt 1-000 - Currnt PoPulation prajctian   era based On 190                and their sMt meal.  A bsr.d-r or ledger sap cr may   t bs included in
tota  population by age And  me end their metAlity end farei110ty tsiea.             thu hau..ehold for atotiticol purpcsae.
Piccjstt-oo yscater f1 or aciel         t cin     f~en  th-u leesan-               Aeaennhro1esoacrro-   toal,   . utba. and4 rure  - Avslmp
in  life   P doproc  at birth iatoseaa  with uutry'a per capita laoe                byo   nsoaprra   aal u_bs   and rural occ.ie  conveo-tion1
level  sodtumlo ilife opatany etabIlisig at 77.1 youre. The Par-                     donIliaS.. r-pecti-nly.  Owellioga socide non-pem-at erooread
-tor   for fertiltIY ruts also hav  th-m lsvol  -seuing derlins in                   uactupisd Parts.
fertility uco-ding to in.om  leve  sad pat ta'lly pIaniag p-rformuc.               009sAotitrIpog..LPq ::II,                       -.stal5..urans..ud..ffa I-
hisci  cu troI then asaigean  a-  at thoosesn           O~ati   f mor-lity          Covnioa:rligenbaenrct   n  iigquress  pratg
aod  Polytresda for prajottian P-rPas.                                               cf total, uran  ad rura  dellingars-p-cti-ly.
~itatI_ne      ouulsiu   - To A ettiomsr  poPaulatin  th-r :is nogroth since
the birth rate ta equal to tha death men, and alentha  g  etruturte-             EDCTO
sei    t oneat.  This to arbiored unly after f-nilityctedoiet                  Adjusted  "nalen  Ttic
tho tal  tnn   leve  Of unitnout rsprduatnia  pane,  Za    ahsorno                   Piaysho  - ttal    i  ndfml                     stat1, sale and f-asIa
of ocan rulacesitesf saciy.  The stati-aY Ppoplatio  s-sva                       naolimu   of all mpa at nta priary leve  as p-rioutass  Of ...opetie
soia   nthebasis of thel prjetd    urstariat         fts  ouain                 Primay sho-g  poo         -ton;  omal  incladn  chiLdre  smnd 6-11
Ic the y-s  1000, eud the rte of daolle of futility rate to                            ...e-per  ho bt adjusted for different lan9tha Of pfimry eduction; f or
enot level.tcoon trie   nih uiversa  eduction enrla-  eny  -orod 100 p-srta
Tea!sctF    ar   Ogud-1ani to is  sahad - Th. you sA- sttoaypopulation                   elt  a       upl  arebeln or ahe   the otficia1 aibhe1 age.
else has beat coached.                                          Incondar . shool - otl       1ml And female - COopoted as aev.a; secondary
PPorltielnet                                                                                 ducatioor-quftrastle...i fou  yenra Of npprovnd primary isasrutian;
Pe s. . - Mid-yenr ppolstimn pen equrs bilsser(O    etrs-ft-tdsgnrl  osini   rtece   rli tsocin  an,ppi
(100 h..t.t..)ufup- ld.. of.l.-iaol                 ; tar   oe;tor     is  nttaoodatooreer   gonaall
Pe po   e   gi-ult-1a land - Compted -  abon  forsgiclu 1l 5d                      Tncldad
P,onl.                                                                                Vueinlerlmnger               .no   eosay       oainliaiuin
Pouatc   M  trutr  feeccane  - Childre   51   5rl etigasll                        inolds tochaic,   nnutel  rothe  progrn  which  pa..sto indapo-
hA  ascL, en  rtired  (65ysr  endevn  enp-rranna  of lid-yanr pPOP-                   dentlr or es daP-tmte Of soco-Ary tueti-aio
1atioe ; 1960, 1970, and 1978 date                            .                        Puc--teh-rc-io - co..y.an   esOOd.a  - Total. cdants annolld in
GousiaIothb Rate (-oet)et - tonal - Aen1a gro'th rtuao Of ntal. add-                  priosr  and secodary ltvn   divided by ooubarn Of tAnocbst  In the
year popultn  for 195t0t60,960-70, ead 197G-78.corsndglvo.
Pooltoni-wbtonh     erei - orbsn - A-anul growth miss of urban  pop-                MAdlt litursoY rt  (reoet) - titrat  odo1ts lahls to mad and wine)
laan1    ot15-i 1960-70, sad 1970-78.aaprsneofttldloouainagd1yasudovt
Cod   in   le  ortosel     mnlLv  bithhpr  housad at1 add-yearou..d-u
popilation; 1900, 1970, and 1978 das.tC..ffTIf
yopaairn;-ti-O  17.And178  ste                                                        ceseeting lose thac oight person; ecoldosatlsoe  hoa-s ..   ad
Crs   Roooointot-Aeag. n,.rt  daegbstsrs a   ma  will ben  in                   mItary vehicle..
ter  -oa  -eyrduotiv-  -srOd ifsh  enPerinoas preetee-pcfIc e-                       SdcOciesfn  buadogltol-Altpao   evr    rrd
cilct  rats; usallyfive-..eat .vaaa  a-dias in 1960, 1970,. ad 1977.             hycdout  00 - gnerl publi 2per obt-en  of1 popl..atiou;  Oc..uda- ati-
taaily PanIca - Aconcs.Auua  ftsaea                  Amial uobhs  Of accptors.                     ..i csdiciv n  _t cutrie  and it Yenc. wh. r-gistrtuan Of radio as
o   irth-coo-co  ds-i-e  une     pita  of  atol fanl  tlssie  troeram.               ens to effet;dat  for iecen  yoaro  "y eo  ha coprbl  icee
Fomily Plonning - Ua.s irErcot Ofmridsa )- P'roetago of earnd                             cu...trioe abolishd licesig
ouns  of cOild-hesring ag  (1- ..    ara . Id.on  bioth-cotro1 devitee to            IT ocevre(rtthta d cpulation) - TV receivero to  bro..do.ot to
al netld _catiosn   uge grou.p.                                                        gnrlpbipechuedpopulatloel enlaasonitansed T'd raelvor
l,ode  of Pood Production Ps      ie  16-1-1-laden of per capita anua                    cio oEf  "daily Eancaitees  tweary"!dfined as n priodca  pub
prductinoohfd   Osditi.Proution eaIedee ead sod fosod *-d                             lication devted piaiytorcrigg                -ca   a      In ia c..-Idered
i-  -! alodt;yea  basis.  Coanditi.s  -us prour  guods  e.g. 5ugt..5                  cha"il"if pinotlapersa t os-- four -tinsaah
iuoa   fsuu)oih  er   dible and  nonnaim  sotrients(.g.cdtaed               Cieadra   tednePerCo.                  o    srte de   h           hro
create oucluded).  Anragate production nf each country le bs ~Odon    olht   ol aigtho yo.u, inotoding admiei.n. to driv-in tisne
uaioenla-ras  prcdt-s pysongt; 16l-65,t197t0. sad 1978 data,                           cod enhilo  -nits.
Percaciia soceln oYf caloies irsrann t  reeurem_is  - Computd fron
reecey equivalent  nofnt food eupplise "'na-lal  in cnCr   s  apn           so      i
pert day.  A-ailebla supplie  co-ptie  Maio  rdutio i          mprt lsPTtadabo  ooe(cooade  -tonmialyact  person, including
uporte, nod chengee to seso. Met oppllte en1.oud  onima  deed, seeds,               erd force  and ue        -Yd hot eooluditg haueoiv-e, etudote, et.
ouoltie  sd in fond  -oroasisa. sed basso in distrboeton.  Raquir-             lefintioo .. c o.rtcuc=      otie-   pot  c  Otmrrhl;100. 1970 and
Ytnotoorssomts-d by PAP hesed on phyiOlcgloa1 anode foreoaiaci                      1970 dana.
o     tysd  nlh c Onn-id-ring aniroastal tMpyaur, body owights, age         P            Mae(r et)- Pen1l lubor focro as percentage Of ntel.  lbor tora.
oud  -e di-ibutin Of population. and allowing 10 per-at for ruts to                o    utrs(ooti) _ Lahot ftotc  infyig  fores .try,buting sad
bruochol  level;  901-AS,1970, and 1977 dae                                    fishing as p-rc-tege Of  t~otl labor forco; 19600. 1970 and 1970 data.
ye  a  ts  urvo  prtein (-- ant dan)            -        -Paeornet Of part rite  Luuiyiroet     aoc forc  toam.    contyatio.   1seaarnrin
onsPP1y of food P.o dy. Oat  uPppty atften  isef1ud as above   t-                  sad slecitioty, netored_        aa   ecnae Ofoeleortt;190
quiramete for all c-ttris  eoblihd hy USDIA Proide for *ii-                          1970 nod 1970 duo.t.      .   .   .P.t,.f'  . :                   .      90
alooc   f 60 gra- at total ptain Per day a-d 20 arm  Of -nat .-d              Patcptu   at   oret    ttl  so   n  feele-atiiptonO
pIsoprotein, of which 10 Eras oheoId ho an-a potin   Tha.. stead-                   atvt   eo   o   optda  oa,sl,adfsalbrfres
arsar  onota   -ths  Of P75 ran  of  etetl Prtein  Ie.1 eve. .1              porce-ogee Of tota, male ead female  ,opulooln  of eIen tortiey
oonlposos   n -verags1for ohe 191d, pooponed by PAP In tbaThird             lO i7,sd  1975 data. Tha...r  Ttd'e.0  psticienin nis  caftletss
cold rood Sur-.;;1h- 19     1970 end 1977data.
cerc-its oPotein -oocl  ft rem  nm  sAnd    a- Protoin supply Of food do-              fgs-e    trutc o.  f the Opopultion, And lneg time tred.  A fan esti
rivad from ani-sl  sd puleno in eras pat day; 1961-65tb1970 so  19(7 data.   .OcoLo  Peoodnc  Ratio -toic of populnto  und-r 15 sod 65 sad o
cu-id la _o -i  NOrtait, Rae(owe thoosad  - daaa,   deoepr _hoad  n                       t  h  totlthrfre
age group 1-A ynoce, to children Is tbio as.sgrou; for os   davlping coo--
OrOs  dac  derived from life tebias; 1960. 1970 an  1977 data.                     ISCONt DISmIBUTION
Parcante o.f Pri-ss nom   bot iocaad kind) - tocined by riches
H(Tn nootnoe   it  tas      vresn5co   tt   ftt   uaie                                        percent, piphott'210 parcettphoret  0 pvoe.nt. and poorat AT percent
o.t bir~th; 1960. 1971 suMd 1976 dan.
of_at to talt  sae ony thausand) - Aenual dathe of infants  .une  one yea    PovYy  TARGsT GRamPS
ofaepet tboueand lIv  birh..                                                      getimae    bcot   oet  loe   eel(               e  crte) -  tb en   oyl
icasto lade Wate   ._onrta  of owelstion) - nasl. nbas mad rura  - 9.                 Abouepvrt  noelvl ste   uen   es   no  ebo V                          ila
=ueber  f P'ople (totl, orban. ad  ua)strmehecs    to "'                                outitioally adequate diet plu  neetiAl ea-food requiremets is ant
oc pspply lic.udee icao afeos oMetr OP oniratd bat ucneInatsd                       ffordeble.
:ae ;oh.a   htfo  prtete.d borohalua  eplsa. und .s-itary une) 05                 Estimated R.'atit - P tort  sTem  Loyl(01ec  atoP    rO ad out 
yoceotgo  ofth itrepeonie pruanino   leanurbn  cesa  .ohicIntl  slolv   poety icoa bvo  isna-thrdof vbagipe  cait
Touotlo, or otadpost I ...tad eon  -r than 200 sove' frmabotsy he                      yOrenal incm  of the  n-ntry. Trhan leve  to deri-d f.eo  the  ua
:o_uiderdo   lein.~g eltno. -encusl  notne  Of that ho.e.   -0 ura   aras               lee  oith  dj-et-  fov hiS1,r cost Of litnog i.tb urbn .r....
canoo-lbno..s.  wou;ld Iepty that the b-uaenf.  . or sbers Of the house.hold         tnlidPoutonOonalneowtynteLvlCooot-urn
do trlc .i  po   dispruporthoats pat Of the day in fetchino tha                  an   ua       oco   fppnoiA        n(ra   n  crt   h   r  "absoaapu0
sally'5 -tote norde..
disycal s  percncag   ofthe ir ree         1-t-v ooiso E.-norto die-                                          Et...-l. and Social Dats Diviion
-Y i-ld. th.   ond   ith - ~~~~~~~Itbon                                             Anoly-i. -~~~ed PojIction nap-rtaset
of   --a urta sod  aeu.-wtst by mete-bone e.tetn  or the nee Of
pit pricion  Otd eail-r I...sllatiu.-



ANNEX I
-2b-                                    Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC  INDICATORS
OIUTpT. LUOR FORCE AnD PRODUCTIVM        1979
Value added
us$ Min.    z
Agriculture                  391.5    55.5
Industry                     W.9       16.4
Services                     197.8    28.1
Total                   705.2   100.0
Central Government 1
GOVERMENT FWAIN C           CBj Million),           Percane or GEl
1979 (P)            1979             1976 - 78
Current Recipts              10$382.4             14.6                14.8
Current Expenditure           8,546.7.            12.0            -11.2
Current Surplus               1,835.7                                -3;    -
Capital Expenditules          6,300.0              8.8                 S,0
EZteral Assistance (Anet)     2 7',n               3,8                 ,6
. . ...  . ......   ....   .......   ..
MME  CRDIT and PRICES                   1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980 (Aum!t)
CmUllion Bur outstanding end period)
Honey and Quasi Moner                 3544.4      5220.9    8233.2    94.11.2    11452.7        10445.0
Bank credit to Public Sector         1271.6       1125.0      270.8    1660.8    4150.4          4495.0
Bank credit to Private Sector          997.0      1532.2    1886.9    4491.3    6220.4           6741.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as , of GDP             10.8        13.2       16.8       17.0       16.1
General Price Index (1970W100)         153.1       163.6      174.6      216.4      272.1
Annual percentage ehanges in:
General Price Index                     15.8         6.8        6.7       23.9       25.7
Bank credit to Public Sector            41.7      -11.5      -75.9       513.3      149.9
Bank credit to Private Sector         -60.3        53.7        23.1      138.0       38.5
BALANC_ Or PAYENTS                                                         MCZUADIS  E OR.S (AVERAGE  .977-80)
1977    1978    1979    1980                                  MIS$  Dn    2
-                            x~~~~~~~~~Mllions  tlS Dollars)
-Exports of Goods, NrS               96.3   71.4  111.9   72.7             Coffee                  75.2  91.1
Imports of Goods, FS                94.7  123.4   192.9  208.3            Cotton                   2.1    2.5
Resource Gap (deficit  s-)            1.6  -52.0  -81.0  -135.6           Skins                    0.7    0.8
Tea                      1.8    2.2
Interest Pavments (net)             -0.6   -0.9   -1.3   -3.9
Workers' Remittances
Other Factor Psyments (net)        -13.1  -13.6   -8.9    8.3
Set transfers                        29.0   32.7   34.3   47.8            All other commodities    2.8-  3.4
Balance on Current Account                                                    TO -33   -3ET  -1   TOTL  82.6  100.0
NOTE:   All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.____
1/  Consolidated statement of Government finances.
2/ Preli-inary estemates.



.ANE I
-27-                               Page 5 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYM1TS
1977   1978   1979  1980 
on. IJ~S Dol3Ars)
Direct ?ore±gu  ^tu en..               -       -       -       -          EXTD2IAL DMsT. DECDSER  31. 1979
Net MUT Borrowing           -
Disbursements                     18.9-   20.2   41 7   46.7                                          US$ MTh
Amortization.                      3.5     2.6     2.7     2.3                                        -
Subtotal                          15.4   17.6   39.0   44.4            Public Debt, intl. guaranteed   103.0
CapOtal Grant    )                   13.8    20.9   25.4,   31.1          Non-Guaranteed ft.vate Debt
Other Capital (net)                  0.3  -24.6   -4.3   24.6             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other ites n.e.i.                     0.2     3.Z   -6.t       -
increase in Reserves(-) -           -46.1,   16.7     3.4                 Dlr SEDC  RATIO FOR 19            x
Gross Reserves (end year) 2/         9S 9    83.4   9Z.7   92.9r3/        Public Debt, intl. guarateed       8.-
Ner Reserve  (end yer)               86.0   69.3   65.9   65.9            Von-Guaranteed Private Debtr 
Total outstanding aud disbursed
Fuel and.kelated v'aterials-
Imports of which:
Petroleum                    5.6     6.7    12.6   25.0          IDA L!!qD,4G  March 31, 1981
Exports of which:                                                        (Million US Dollars)
Petroleum                     -       -       -       -
RATE OF EXCAGE                                                                                           -       -
Outstanding &
Through Feb. 1973                 Since May 3, 1976                         Disbursed                     38 5
US$1.00 -  BuF 87.5 S$1.00 - BuF 90.0                                    Undisbursed           -          53.8
BuF100   -  USB1u14-              Bu  100 - US$1.Sl                       Outstanding intl.               92.4
undisbursed 
From March 1978 to  av 2. 1976
US$1.00 - BuF 78.75
SuF 100 - US$1.27
1- 'Prel1miaary asti±ites-.
21  Central Rank1_ -      _-
3/  September 3,.19                                   ..  not available
4/  Ratio of Debt Service to Export                   -.  not applicable
of Goods and Non-Factor Ser7ices.
May 5, 1981



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO BURUNDI
(as of March 31, 1981)
Amount
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                       (less cancellations)
Number       Year      Borrower         Purpose           Bank    IDA 2/   Undisbursed
One loan -  and five credits fully disbursed               4.8    9.5            -
593-BU       1975      Burundi      Second Coffee im-
provement             -     5.2           0.7
626-BU       1976      Burundi     Fisheries Development  -       6.0           3.5
679-BU       1977      Burundi     Education                -    10.0           0.1
731-BU       1978      Burundi     Development Bank         -     3.4           2.1
773-BU       1978      Burundi     Second Highway Project -    14.0             5.7
917-BU       1979      Burundi     Second Technical
Assistance            -     2.5           1.7
918-BU       1979      Burundi     Forestry                 -     4.3           3.6
976-BU       1980      Burundi      Second Education        -    15.0          14.5
1049-BU      1980      Burundi     Urban Development        -    15.0          14.3
1058-BU      1981      Burundi      Telecommunications      -     7.7           7.7
Total                               4.8   92.6          53.9
of which has been repaid            4.8    0.2
Total now held                      0.0   92.4
Total undisbursed                   0.0   53.9          53.9
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Rwanda-Urundi for
the improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of
the Lake port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



-29-                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in Burundi.
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 593-BU          Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million
of December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 31,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project is a continuation of the first Coffee Improvement Project
(US$1,8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969). It is being co-financed
by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis and by Belgium (about
US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund has financed the construction of coffee washing
stations and of the road construction component, and Belgium assists in the
carrying out of a coffee research component. The project is designed to support
the development of coffee and food production by strengthening and expanding
extension services and distribution of agricultural inputs; it includes a
pilot rural development program to improve livestock and food crop production.
Start up of the project was slow because of frequent changes in foreign and
local project staff. A new team of foreign experts has been appointed and
project management is now improving under a newly appointed Burundian manager.
Coffee extension work is showing favorable results.  Husbandry methods practiced
by coffee growers continue to improve and coffee research activities are making
satisfactory progress. Construction of the eleven coffee washing stations
is nearly completed. The pilot food crop development programs have been redefined
and scaled down to ensure better control. The Credit is expected to be totally
disbursed by September 1981.
Credit No. 626-BU          Fisheries Development Project;  US$ 6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: February 22,1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is designed to increase the production of fish through
the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen and to improve
the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project also includes financing
for the preparation of rural development plans for the coastal region along
Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot development activities. The
project is co-financed by a US$1.2 million loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
Project implementation was initially very slow because of problems encountered
in the recruitment of both expatriate technical assistants and their national
counterparts and in the procurement of goods. Some of these constraints have
been overcome and the pace of project implementation has accelerated. Production
of a limited number of fiberglass hulls for fishing boats has begun and there
has been an improvement in the catch rates at some fishing centers. A new
experiment is underway to use low quality local wood and a minimum amount
of foreign exchange to produce longer lasting and cheaper laminated wood boats.
Problems of shortages of spare parts for the outboard engines are being solved.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and waeknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
-30-                         Page 3 of 5
Contracts for all the studies have been signed and all of them are underway.
However, SUPOBU's activities related to commercialization and marketing of
fish have been unsuccessful, causing severe financial strains on the Company.
Further to a recent review of implementation problems with the Government,
it is now proposed to stop all processing and marketing activities, and limit
SUPOBU's role to the provision of fishing craft and gear and extension services.
A proposal to amend the Credit Agreement will be made accordingly.
Credit No. 679-BU          Education Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28,
1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project assists the Government in continuing and consolidating
the reform of primary education. It aims at substantially expanding primary
school enrollments and improving the distribution of educational opportuni-
ties. It provides technical and financial assistance to the Rural Education
as well as for teacher training. As a result of a shortage of cement and
fuel caused by the hostilities in Uganda in 1979, project execution has been
delayed by about a year. Because of this interruption and of higher than
anticipated price increases, the Project is encountering high cost overruns.
The construction of 21 schools, a teacher training center and a printshop
has been completed. An additional eight schools are nearing completion and
the construction of seven new schools is in progress. Funds are nearly totally
disbursed.
Credit No. 731-BU          Development Bank Project; US$3.4 million of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in medium size
productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National Economic Develop-
ment Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started slowly. Following,
however, an Amendment of the Credit Agreement of June 1980, which allows the
use of up to US$1 million for financing loans to small-scale enterprises,
project execution has accelerated. It is expected that the Credit will be
fully committed by mid 1981. The newly established Industrial Development
Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial projects is now fully
staffed.
Credit No. 773-BU          Second Highway Project;  US$14.0 million of
March 29, 1978; Effective Date: July 27, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project finances the paving of a major national road, Bujumbura-
Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an improvement program for selected
secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the construction of a new central
laboratory, the strengthening of the mechanized maintenance brigade and the
provision of technical assistance and equipment for the ongoing maintenance
program. Project implementation, in particular major road construction, was
delayed by the lack of cement and fuel supplies due to disruption in international
transport through neighboring countries during the first half of 1979. Since



-31-                                ANNEX  II
Page 4 of 5
then, works have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these interruptions,
and of higher than expected price increases, the project is encountering high
cost overruns. The improvement program for selected secondary roads is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. The construction of a new central laboratory is well
underway and will be completed on time by mid-1981. The mechanized maintenance
brigade is already fully operational and has received all the equipment financed
under the project. The technical assistance component is, in general, meeting
its objectives; however, difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and
in retaining them in service once trained have not made possible the reduction
of expatriate technical assistance as planned.
Credit No. 917-BU           Second Technical Assistance Project;  US$2.5 million
of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 27,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project provides for the further strengthening of the Govern-
ment's planning mechanism and its project preparation and implementation capacity.
It includes continuation of the technical assistance to macro economic planning
at the Ministry of Planning, provision of experts to the planning divisions
of the Mi-nistries of Agriculture and Industry and financing of feasibility
studies. The Credit is also financing consultant services to support the
Government's effort in restructuring public enterprises. Most of the experts
have been recruited. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU           Forestry Project;  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit of June 1, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1979;
Closing Date: March_31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the first stage
for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and plantations
to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish long-term
wood production and marketing policies. The project includes the establish-
ment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus plantation and
a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided by France) and
financing of energy studies. The three expatriate technical assistants (project
manager, two silviculturists) are in post. The project is progressing satisfac-
tori ly.
Credit No. 976-BU           Second Education Project;  US$15.0 million of
April 23, 1980; Effectiveness Date: July 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle level technicians and
skilled workers in industrial trades and secretarial/administrative skills.
It includes the construction, fu.rnishing and equipping of two new boarding
technical schools, a Mechanics Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training
Department in two existing schools and staff housing. The Credit became effective
on July 21, 1980 and implementation is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit No. 1049-BU         Urban Development Project: US$15.0 million of
June 24, 1980; Effective Date:
October 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent infrastructure deficien-
cies in Bujumbura neighborhoods while laying the foundation for more efficient
future growth. Essential improvements to street, drainage, water and public
lighting networks will improve living conditions for 118,000 persons in Bujumbura,
or 85% of the population. Serviced plots and loans for house construction
will be made available to families between the 15th and 65th income percentiles.
An artisan promotion component will provide technical and financial assistance
to masons, carpenters, tailors, and metalworkers. An energy assistance program
will improve the efficiency of charcoal-burning metal stoves. A municipal
services component will strengthen the capacity of the Bujumbura municipality
to collect garbage and maintain streets, drains, and public buildings. Project
start-up is progressing satisfactorily. Following signature of a contract
for the majority of technical assistance posts, the first expatriate technicians
are in place in the Project Unit.
Credit No. 1058-BU         Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of August7,
1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is a major component of the country's 1980-84 investment
program for telecommunications. It aims at improving the quality of existing
services while extending the coverage to rural areas and segments of the popula-
tion presently unserved. It would also strengthen the management of the tele-
communications parastatal company (ONATEL) in order to establish the company
as a financially autonomous entity, and provide assistance for staff training.
The project became effective on January 7, 1981.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
-33-
BURUNDI
KIRMIRO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Identification:                   October 1975
Preparation:                      Societe Mixte du Burundi (SOMEBU)
and Government, with IDA's assistance
Appraisal Mission:                March/April 1980
Negotiations:                     May 1981
Planned Date of Effectiveness:   September 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project:
The Government and the Association would exchange views annually on
Government policy related to coffee production (para. 31).
RDC proposals to ISABU on research orientation would be submitted
to IDA for approval in the Annual Work Program (para. 55).
The terms of reference, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment of technical assistants and consultants
would be satisfactory to the Association and the proposed contracts,
including terms of reference would be submitted to the Association
for its review and concurrence (para. 57).
The Association would be consulted on (a) the appointment of
key national staff of the RDC and (b) any changes to be made
in these appointments (para. 58).
The Government would ensure that the recurrent annual needs of
the RDC for fertilizers and pesticides are met, including subsidies
and provision of foreign exchange, as necessary (para. 62).
Government contribution would be made available to the RDC on
a quarterly basis (para 62).
The RDC would establish a compensation plan which would offer
adequate incentives to its staff (para. 57)
Project expenditures would be made in accordance with Annual
Work Program and budgets which would be submitted to IDA for
approval (para. 59).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
-34-
The Government would inform IDA sufficiently in advance of any
modifications envisaged in the composition of the Board of Directors
of the RDC (para. 60).
Construction works would be carried out by force account. Water
supply works would be carried out by force account or by UNICEF
(para. 63).
Additional Conditions of Effectiveness
Employment of the RDC manager, the Deputy Head of the Rural Develop-
ment Department and Chief Accountant (para. 58).
Signature of a prefinancing agreement between the RDC and
CAMOFI guaranteed by the Government (para. 62).
Submission of an annual Work Program for the period of September
1981 to December 1982 (para. 59).
Deposit by the Government of the first quarterly installment
in the RDC's bank account (para. 62).
Conditions of disbursement
Approval of the Work Program and Budget of any given year would
be a condition of disbursement against activities for that year
(para. 59).



2900                                  9030
BURUNDI
KIRIMIRO   RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                            R  W   A  N  D  A,
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREA
PAROIET DE DE VEiOPPEMENT RURAL CU K/RIM/IRO                            - 
EMPLACEMENT DE LA ZONE DU PRojETrr-
I U G 0  I 11 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     0 RN0i~ 
NTE   ~ ~ A00001          <     / 
(                                   "~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~ ~~ WU,MBA    j   2 /U A
b,Kooe~~~~~~~~~~~~
BANDA   I ~,
MUSIGATI   ~       ~ ARA        B- L-ROK
BONGO,'>   K    U2 89H,  UZACNjZ
LU                             KI GAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ K209
N AVA~~~~~~~~~~~9919ET9                                                       0
H>           \Ul0KM B                                                                MILKSI 
2~~~~~~                                                                                   2           0    'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
/900000  MMLLMMUM   0                           N? U~~~~~~~~~tGAND
BUYENZ  J")N Y                           K I NY N Y 1. ,~ ~ ~~~~~KKN0
<~~~~~~~~~YU                                              r.C                          
C               LAD          BANDA7                                       (2   ~~~~~~~T    NZ        NI 
KI R A SAZ I ~  ~          ~         ANZNI
r"l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9?0
o~~~~~oo                                                                                                        2~~~~~~~~~~'2-~~~~ P I N   



