Document of
The World Bank                            f'ILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ap.it NO. P-2855a-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 19, 1980
Tbis decuome  hs a resrcted dibulb    and wmy be aed by recipents only in te pef n    of
their Offical dus. Its contts may not otherwise be disclasd withot Wold Bank unhoi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  = Syli
US$1.00         - 19 Syli
Syli 1.00      = US$0.05
Syli 1,000      = US$52.60
Syli I million = US$52,630
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDE              Bureau d'Etudes
BGCE             Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
DGE              Direction Generale d'Elevage
(General Directorate of Livestock)
DREP             Direction Regionale de l'Elevage et de la Peche
(Regional Livestock Services)
IRBANC           Institut de Recherches et de Biologie
Appliquee - Nenenkhaly Condetto
(Central Vaccine Production and Diagnostic
Laboratory)
RMWA             Regional Mission (World Bank) West Africa
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Amount:             SDR 13.3 million (US$17.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:      The proposed project-s major objective would be to increase
the productivity of the Guinean cattle herd and thereby
augment national meat and milk production, improve nutri-
tion, and raise the standard of living of cattle-herding
families. It would be implemented over four years and
would include:
(a) Institutional strengthening through: upgrading of the
General Directorate of Livestock (DGE) to provide a
central capacity for the day-to-day implementation
of the project, and establishment within the DGE of a
Research and Planning Office (Bureau d-Etudes, BDE).
(b) Support for animal health and husbandry services
through: upgrading of regional livestock services
including reconstruction or refurbishing of headquarter
buildings and provision of basic equipment and
materials; sales to herdsmen of drugs, medicines and
mineral licks; a national vaccination campaign;
reinforcement of the central vaccine production and
diagnostic laboratory; and a pilot credit program to
encourage cattle ownership and use of draft animals.
(c) Staff training through: establishment of a 40-person
capacity training center and provision of fellowships
for overseas training.
(d) A total of 19 man-years of technical assistance,
30 man-months of short-term consultant services,
and the services of an architect for the design and
supervision of construction work.
By full project development it is expected that national beef
production would increase by 30 percent or 4,200 t per annum, and
milk by 39 percent or 11,000 t per annum, representing a significant
improvement in national protein intake. Aggregate net real income
from the livestock sector is expected to increase by 30 percent.
The institution strengthening and training measures would provide
the basis for planning and implementing other livestock activities,
and examining and helping resolve critical sectoral problems. The
potential for export of N'Dama breeding stock would provide much
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
needed foreign exchange, and the pilot credit scheme would establish
the basis for a future integrated cropping and animal husbandry
farming system. The project involves no major technical risks.
Main risks relate to: (i) the importance of staffing the project
with qualified Guinean and internationally recruited technical
assistance personnel, and obtaining support from Government institu-
tions connected with the project, and (ii) the willingness of
livestock owners to participate in the project. Careful attention
would be paid to selection of qualified Guinean and expatriate
staff, and organizational features built into the project would
facilitate Government-s role in implementation. Livestock owners
are fully aware of the benefits of veterinary inputs, and the
measures agreed with Government to improve the marketing and pricing
system would help ensure active participation of herdsmen in the
project.
Estimated Cost:                      Foreign       Local      Total
(US$ million)
Strengthening of DGE and
establishment of BDE                0.9          0.5         1.4
Reinforcement of Regional
Livestock Services                  3.0          1.1         4.1
Vaccination Campaigns                 0.7          0.2          0.9
Vaccine Production and Diagnostic
Laboratory                          0.9          0.1         1.0
Incremental Drugs, Medicines,
Mineral Salts                       3.2           --         3.2
Training Center and Fellowships       1.1          0.5          1.6
Technical Assistance                  2.9           __          2.9
Pilot Credit Program                   --          0.2         0.2
BASE COST                 12.7          2.6         15.3
Contingencies
Physical                   1.1          0.2          1.3
Price                      3.7          0.7          4.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(including taxes)         17.5          3.5         21.0
Taxes                                   0.6          0.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(net of taxes)            17.5          2.9         20.4



- iii -
Financing Plan:                      Foreign       Local       Total
(including taxes)                              (US$ million)
IDA                       17.5             -        17.5
Government                  --            2.4        2.4
Herdsmen                    --            1.1        1.1
17.5           3.5       21.0
Estimated
Disbursements:          FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85
(US$ million)
Annual           .45      5.85      4.65    4.40        2.15
Cumulative       .45     6.30      10.95   15.35      17.50
Economic Rate
of Return:          25 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             2959a-GUI dated August 19, 1980
Map:                  IBRD 14977






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for the equivalent of
SDR 13.3 million (US$17.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Livestock Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Since 1976 Guinea has been re-examining its development policies,
institutions, and relations with the outside world, while making an effort to
adjust to rapidly changing economic conditions. This process has broadened
the opportunities for Bank Group involvement in Guinean development efforts,
and has permitted a more fruitful dialogue on some development policy issues.
Economic missions have identified the major structural constraints to the
growth of output and income, and have provided a basis for planning an ex-
panded Bank Group involvement in key sectors. The last mission took place in
February 1980, and its findings and those of earlier missions are reflected in
the following assessment of the state of the economy and its prospects. An
Economic Memorandum is now being prepared.
Background Conditions
3.        Guinea is well endowed with arable land, water and mineral re-
sources. Its broad range of eco-climatic zones allows diversified crop
production in addition to cattle-raising, forestry and fishing. Before
independence, the country was a major exporter of bananas, coffee, pine-
apple and palm oil, and was practically self-reliant in basic foodstuffs.
With respect to mineral resources, bauxite reserves are estimated at 6.5
billion tons, or 29 percent of the world's known reserves in 1979. Con-
siderable high-grade iron ore deposits have been identified, and there
are good geological prospects for uranium and offshore oil. Numerous
rivers provide significant potential for hydroelectric power.
1/   Since the President's Reports of August 28, 1979 for the Second
Highway and Rice Projects, most of the macroeconomic aggregates,
particularly national accounts, public finance, and balance of payments
estimates, have been revised on a preliminary basis as a result of a
February/March 1980 economic mission. The new data are given in
Part I and Annex I of the present report, and will be incorporated in
the Economic Memorandum now being prepared which will be discussed with
the Government in late 1980.



-2-
Past Performance (1958-73)
4.        Notwithstanding Guinea's resource endowment, economic performance
from the time of independence until 1973 was disappointing. Real growth of
GNP during this period was estimated at less than 2.5 percent annually,
lower than the rate of population growth. Agricultural exports practically
vanished, and Guinea became a net food importer of even its staple food,
rice. The years following independence were characterized by a comprehen-
sive reorganization of all economic and social activities in Guinea with a
view to building a socialist economy. This entailed a sharp curtailment of
the private sector and the establishment of Government trading companies
operating at controlled prices, the creation of numerous other public
enterprises in manufacturing, transport and other sectors, and extensive
State investment in industrial, transport and social infrastructure.
Returns on many projects were limited by managerial inexperience and plan-
ning inadequacies, and public enterprises absorbed high and rising amounts
of Government resources. The capital costs and recurrent expenditure of the
public sector soon exceeded budgetary savings, and the Government resorted to
heavy foreign borrowing and Central Bank advances to finance them. Foreign
borrowing from Western and centrally planned economies was done on an ad hoc
basis, and soon resulted in unmanageable debt obligations that could not be
met by declining export proceeds. At the same time, the liberal advances of
the Central Bank led to a rapid increase in money supply, galloping infla-
tion, and an overvalued exchange rate for the Syli. Consequently the public
trading enterprises could neither obtain adequate supplies of local goods at
official prices nor distribute them widely enough, and an active "parallel"
or "black" market developed with prices substantially higher than official
levels. Furthermore, the lack of foreign exchange caused sharp reductions
in imports of raw materials and intermediate inputs, which constrained
production in manufacturing, agriculture and consumer goods. The economy
thus stagnated in a vicious circle of foreign exchange shortages, poor
incentives, and declining investments, output and exports.
5.        While lack of foreign exchange sharply limited the supply of
imported goods, and indirectly of local products as well, excess money
supply strongly stimulated local demand. As a result of 15 years of deficit
financing, money supply reached a high level of 44 percent of GDP in 1973,
or about twice the level attained in most other West African countries.
Most of this money overhang was concentrated in the urban areas where it
aggravated the severe excess demand situation and absorbed much of the
limited supply of goods that would otherwise have been available to the
rural areas. Meanwhile, official prices were nowhere near an adequate
level and the result was widespread parallel transactions in the markets for
goods, labor and foreign exchange.
6.        These trends created considerable difficulties for the people.
The rural population, about 80 percent of the total, operated principally at
a subsistence level, selling as little as possible on the official market,
and was largely excluded from the official distribution of imported consumer
goods. On the other hand, the urban population had to compete for the
limited supply of goods it could buy through official channels with rationing
cards, and was forced to supplement its needs in the unofficial market at very
high prices.



- 3 -
7.        Foreign debt reached 75 percent of GDP in 1973, and public debt
service approached 72 percent of exports. Arrears on debt service accumu-
lated rapidly and foreign reserves dwindled. In 1972/73 the current account
deficit exceeded US$170 million or 18 percent of the GDP.
Recent Trends (1973-79)
8.        The productive and financial bases for a more dynamic economy have
been strengthened since 1974, although the country-s economic development
is still hampered by structural problems. This improvement in underlying
conditions, brought about initially by new bauxite-mining operations, was
further encouraged by the gradual adoption of more outward-looking policies
since 1978 vis-a-vis western nations and neighboring countries, notably the
Ivory Coast and Senegal.
9.        Development of two large bauxite mines raised GDP growth to an
average of 3.2 percent p.a. between 1973 and 1979 in real terms, while GNP
increased at 3.4 percent p.a. By 1979, per capita GDP of Guinea's 5.3
million inhabitants reached US$292, and per capita GNP US$274. The rural
sector has continued to dominate the economy, its share in GDP in 1979
representing 41 percent compared to 58 percent in 1973, while the mining
sector's contribution more than quadrupled, from 4 percent to 18 percent over
the last 6 years.
10.       Increased gross domestic output especially for exports, and a
stricter control of aggregate demand, allowed Guinea to record a balance
of trade surplus of about US$25 million p.a. on average between 1976-78.
However, the current account recorded a deficit of US$61 million p.a. on
average during this period, or about 4 percent of GDP. The overall
balance of payments remained in deficit at about US$94-million p.a. This
deficit was due to increasing factor service payments mainly related to the
mining operations, and to relatively low capital inflows. The balance of
payments deficit has been financed in about equal proportions through an
accumulation of debt arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange
reserves. At the end of 1978, foreign reserves covered only one month of
imports compared to almost three months at the end of 1975.
11.       About 60 percent of gross export earnings has been used to pay
for both direct foreign exchange costs of mining operations and mining-
related debt service, leaving only 40 percent to finance increased imports
of essential raw materials, foodstuffs and consumer goods, hardly enough to
provide necessary current inputs for manufacturing and agriculture and
adequate incentives to producers. In the agricultural sector, Government has
attempted to stimulate production through an increase in public investment
and efforts to improve distribution of consumer goods in the hinterland.
Investment, however, has been concentrated on mechanized collective farms
whose output has been disappointing. Furthermore, inadequate producer
prices and poor supply and distribution of goods to rural producers through
official trade channels remain serious obstacles to sectoral development.
Private trade has been tolerated since 1977. Its official legalization in
1979, as a step towards lessening restrictions on movement of goods and people
internally and across national borders, has led to improved supply of consumer
goods and foodstuffs through imports by private traders using their own
foreign exchange.



- 4 -
12.       Higher bauxite exports and favorable world market conditions have
greatly increased Government revenue through taxation and sharing of profits.
Thus, since 1973 Government current revenues and in particular tax revenues
have increased markedly faster (19 percent p.a.) than GDP (7.2 percent
p.a.), while public recurrent expenditures have increased at a moderate 11.5
percent per year. Part of this additional revenue has been turned over to
the Central Bank for amortization of accumulated Government debt. Though
Government domestic borrowing declined from 3.8 billion Sylis in 1973 to 0.2
billion in 1979, this reduction was more than compensated by an increase in
credit extension to public enterprises from Sylis 7.4 billion in 1973 to
Sylis 20 billion in 1979, necessitated in part by the transfer of their
profits to Government as discussed in para. 13. Total credit to the public
sector thus expanded from Sylis 11.2 billion in 1973 to Sylis 20.2 billion
in 1979. At the same time, the Government reduced the amount of currency in
circulation, while the deposits of the private sector decreased and those of
public enterprises rose at a much slower pace than their sales. Thus the
money supply has been kept relatively stable in absolute terms, and declined
in relative terms to 32 percent of GDP at the end of 1978. These deflationary
measures, together with the trade liberalization and the influx of private
foreign exchange assets converted into import goods, led to a fall in prices
and exchange rates on the parallel market, and probably to some improvement
in the real purchasing power of most of Guinea's poorest population.
13.       Net transfers from public enterprises to the Government have
increased substantially in recent years, due mainly to a growth in commercial
profits of trading enterprises having access to undervalued foreign exchange
produced by the mining and agricultural sectors, and insufficient expenditure
by public enterprises for both replacement investment and current maintenance.
However, the Government has demonstrated a desire to better maintain and
fully exploit existing capital assets, and has begun to allocate a larger
proportion of its recurrent budget for much needed maintenance expenses and
spare parts. Importantly, it is also undertaking serious examination of the
viability of public enterprises; a few of the least successful have been
closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs, some-
times with external assistance. The Government's objective is to make these
enterprises self-sufficient, and it has therefore recognized the need to
revise pricing policies to enhance cash flows, ensure adequate credit to
maintain working capital and stocks, and call upon foreign technical
assistance (including post-rehabilitation management assistance) to strengthen
operational efficiency.
14.       Most investment in Guinea is of a public or parapublic nature.
The third and most recent development plan covered the period October 1973
to December 1978. Its original forecasts called for a public and parapublic
investment outlay of US$2.9 billion or about 45 percent of GDP, of which
US$1.8 billion, or 65 percent of total investment, was to be in semipublic
joint ventures with foreign investors (mainly in the mining sector). The
plan was later scaled down to US$1.7 billion (of which US$870 million for
investment by the Central Government per se) to take into account delays in
the implementation of iron ore projects at Mount Nimba and Simandou, and of



- 5 -
bauxite mines at Dabola and Tougue. Actual investment by the Central Govern-
ment is estimated at US$478 million during the plan period, or 55 percent of
planned expenditure. Two-thirds of Central Government investment was financed
by foreign assistance. Foreign borrowing was particularly heavy between
1973-76, when it covered over 70 percent of financing requirements. Large
outlays in connection with mining operations, purchase of equipment for rural
production brigades, as well as for the transport sector, were the main
components in the high investment levels in the 1973-76 period, to the tune
of over US$100 million per annum. In 1977-78, partly because of reduced
availability of foreign financing, investment outlays of the Central Govern-
ment fell to less than US$74 million per annum. In addition to this, the
Central Government disbursed some Sylis 9.7 billion (almost US$500 million)
in financial assistance to public enterprises over the 1976-79 period.
Prospects
15.       Guinea's long-term development prospects are good.  However, the
Government has not yet defined its development priorities for the next
Plan period, other than the customary major projects in need of foreign
financing. Based on Bank analysis and projections, it appears that Guinea's
short and medium-term economic development prospects will hinge critically
on the rate of growth in the mining sector, while long-term prospects will
be affected by rural development. Mining exports increased from US$61
million in 1973 to US$360 million in 1979 and are likely to reach US$400
million in 1980.
16.       Despite this favorable forecast, the foreign exchange situation will
remain critical if no new major sources are identified in the near future.
This is because of: (a) the high foreign exchange content of the operating
costs in mining projects; (b) increasingly high debt service obligations,
including substantial arrears; and (c) import requirements for the manu-
facturing, transport and other sectors, as well as for minimum needs for
imports of foodstuff, consumer goods, and services. Guinea will therefore
need large amounts of external assistance to support its balance of payments
until at least 1985.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
17.       Over the past few years, Guinea has been diversifying its sources
of foreign assistance through renewed ties with the western industrialized
countries, expanded relations with such OPEC countries as Algeria, Iraq,
Libya, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and with multilateral sources. During this
process, Guinea faced a rather difficult transition period between 1975-78,
at which time increased reliance on private financing (particularly suppliers'
credits) hardened external borrowing terms and put additional pressure
on the balance of payments. More recently, there is evidence that public
assistance is gradually replacing private financing, and the average terms of
external borrowing in 1979 were softer than those recorded in the previous
two years. Both the Bank Group and IMF have maintained a dialogue with the
Government on a wide range of policy matters, and Guinea has qualified for
drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund facilities.



- 6 -
18.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in public
infrastructure and public enterprises as well as public consumption, have
resulted in a burden of foreign obligations which is and will remain for
years a major problem. Guinea's external outstanding public debt reached
US$1.3 billion as of December 31, 1979, of which US$1 billion (66 percent of
GDP) was disbursed. Loans denominated in convertible currency amount to 53
percent of the total public debt disbursed as of the end of 1979, and to 83
percent of the 1979 disbursements. Limited foreign exchange earnings have
hindered the payment of debt service, and despite the negotiation of several
rescheduling agreements, outstanding arrears on loans due in convertible
currency totalled US$114 million at the end of 1979. During 1979, public debt
service was projected to US$143 million, of which only U$82 million was
actually paid. In 1978 and 1979 the ratio of debt service obligations
to gross export earnings was about 50 percent if debt service on private
borrowings, i.e., debt owed by the two mixed bauxite companies, is included.
Actual service payments including private debt amounted to about 35 percent of
export receipts.
19.       Service for public debt outstanding at December 31, 1979 should
exceed US$140 million p.a. over the 1980-82 period. Even if foreign capital
inflows cover the entire foreign exchange costs of new investments, arrears
are likely to rise further, at a pace provisionally estimated at US$60
million per annum, of which two-thirds in convertible currency. Service on
new commitments would of course further increase this amount. With limited
scope to maneuver, the Government has addressed the problem through debt
rescheduling negotiated bilaterally with some creditors, and measures to
improve debt management through the newly established External Debt Depart-
ment in the Central Bank. The Government has also undertaken a stricter
control of investments financed by external credits, and a more judicious
official import program. Some relief was provided in this area by the
opening of trade. However successful these efforts may be, during the next
few years Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of foreign assis-
tance on concessionary terms. This will be needed not only for investment
purposes but also to provide foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer
goods imports which are vital to stimulate economic activity and relieve
supply constraints, particularly in the rural sector. Furthermore, despite
the Government's achievements in keeping the growth of its current consump-
tion expenditures below the growth of revenue, net public savings after debt
service will be negligible until the mid-1980s, and local cost financing by
external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
20.       To date, the Bank Group has financed nine operations in Guinea.
Two loans totalling US$73.5 million in FY69 and FY71 financed infrastructure
for the Boke Bauxite Mining Project. IDA credits of US$7.0 million and US$14
million respectively were granted in FY75 for a Daboya Pineapple Development
Project and FY76 for a first Road Maintenance Project. In FY79, three credits
were signed, one of US$8 million for an Education Project, the second of
US$12.5 million for a Water Supply and Sanitation Project, and the third,



US$1.1 million for a Power Engineering and Repair Project. Two additional
credits were signed in November 1979, one of US$10.4 million for a Rice
Development Project, the second, US$13 million for a Second Highway Project.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
July 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's external public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1979, and of total public debt service in
1979 amounted to 8.1 percent and 11.4 percent respectively. IDA credits
represent 5.3 percent of Bank Group outstanding commitments and a negligible
proportion (0.2 percent) of Guinea's public debt service payments. By 1985,
the Bank Group's share in Guinea's public debt outstanding will reach 16.5
percent of total commitments, 63.8 percent of which would be IDA credits.
IBRD's share of debt service will drop to 6.3 percent, while that of IDA will
remain insignificant at 0.5 percent of total public debt service payments.
22.       In view of the general shortage of foreign exchange and the poor
state of infrastructure in Guinea, the Bank Group's first projects aimed
at promoting mining and agricultural exports and at beginning to rehabilitate
road infrastructure. The Boke Project was completed satisfactorily and
bauxite output has increased steadily. Despite some delays in execution,
the Daboya Project is now exporting fresh fruit to Europe, and a follow-up
project based on expanded smallholder development is under consideration. The
First Highway Project has been largely successful in rehabilitating and
maintaining a major part of the transport network vital for agricultural
development.
23.       Encouraged by the experience in execution of these first proj-
ects, the Bank Group has begun to expand and diversify its lending program.
This has been facilitated by agreement reached with Government on four basic
priorities: (i) rehabilitating and maintaining basic infrastructure; (ii)
developing human resources; (iii) expansion of mining; and (iv) rural develop-
ment. The first three would gradually remove constraints on the development
of economic activities, including lack of foreign exchange, and would increase
absorptive capacity, while the benefits of the fourth would be distributed
among the largest segment of the population. Thus, Bank Group operations
in each of these four areas have been approved or are under preparation, with
particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution-building and training.
The Water Supply and Power Engineering Projects, the latter initially con-
centrating on the deteriorated system in Conakry, and a more comprehensive
first Power Project appraised in December 1979, concentrate on the first
objective of improving infrastructure. The Second Highway Project supports
this strategy and would expand the road rehabilitation and maintenance work
begun under the First Highway Project. It would also strengthen certain
sector institutions to help Guineans acquire and successfully apply the
engineering and technical skills necessary to plan, design, and implement road
transport projects. The First Education Project arose out of the clear need
for more trained technical manpower, and aims to assist the Government in
improving and expanding training programs for industrial technicians and



- 8 -
skilled workers, with emphasis on strengthening sector institutions. Because
of the vital importance of mining in helping alleviate the country-s foreign
exchange shortage, the Bank Group is also considering further intervention in
this sector. Feasibility studies are being reviewed for the Nimba Iron Ore
Mining project and for the Konkoure Hydroelectric Power/Aluminum Smelter
project.
24.       One of the Government's main priorities is increased exploitation
of agricultural and livestock resources. It is in the rural sector, how-
ever, that the country has experienced the greatest difficulty in harnessing
its development potential. The Bank Group has found it difficult to find
non-enclave projects suitable for financing. Basic institutional support
for the rural sector, economic incentives to farmers, accessibility to
modern technology, as well as applied agricultural research activity have
been virtually non-existent. These factors affect the willingness and
ability of Guinean farmers to respond to production expectations. To come
to grips with these fundamental issues, the Bank Group has been working with
Government to prepare a series of projects which entail direct intervention in
the rural sector in activities chosen for their growth potential. The Rice
Development Project approved in FY80 stresses institution-building at the
national level, and is introducing on a pilot basis low-cost improved rice
production methods to test farmer response in a potentially highly productive
part of the country. The project also includes consultant services to carry
out a study of agricultural prices and rural incentives. The proposed Live-
stock Development Project aims at strengthening the institutions responsible
for day-to-day field operations and sectoral planning and analysis, improving
animal health and productivity, and training livestock sector staff.
25.       The Bank Group will continue to assist the Government in develop-
ing its policies toward new sectors of activity, and is beginning to prepare
an industrial rehabilitation/IDF project to help improve the efficiency
and productivity of the country's public enterprises and to foster further
growth of the private sector. A port project also under consideration will
aim at rehabilitating port facilities, fulfilling cargo handling requirements,
and improving port administration and operations. At the same time, an urban
project is being prepared which is designed to upgrade several low income
settlements and develop sites and services in Conakry. The Bank Group is
executing agency for a Water Master Plan financed by UNDP which will start
shortly, and which is aimed at helping the Government to formulate a program
for national use of water resources.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
26.       The agriculture sector provides a livelihood for about 80 percent
of Guinea's population, and contributes about 40 percent of GDP. Rice is
the predominant food crop. Livestock, particularly cattle, are an important
element of the rural economy. Resources comprise about 1,250,000 cattle,
250,000 sheep, 300,000 goats, 60,000 pigs and five million chickens. Of the
total cattle population, about 45 percent are in Middle Guinea (Fouta Djalon),
27 percent in Upper Guinea, 18 percent in Maritime Guinea, and about 10 percent
in the Forest Region (see map).



27.       The ownership of cattle is well distributed involving an esti-
mated 160,000 families (1.3 million people) or 30 percent of Guinea's rural
population. Herd size is generally less than ten animals. While a few
families with larger herds have higher than average incomes, for most cattle-
owning families incomes are about, or slightly above, the rural sector
average. Cattle are reared for meat, milk and draft purposes, with the
relative importance of each function partly dependent on geographic locality.
Cattle also represent a means of storing capital for emergencies and for gifts
at weddings and other occasions. Most cattle-owning families are sedentary,
grazing their animals near the village and also growing crops. Forage re-
sources are generally abundant except for certain more densely populated
regions where transhumance in the dry season is practised. Some tendency
towards integration of cattle rearing and crop husbandry is noticeable in
Guinea, a process that would be encouraged under the proposed project.
28.       Guinea-s cattle population consists almost entirely of the N-Dama
breed, a small humpless animal with good fertility and relatively high
overall productivity. Its most outstanding characteristic is a relative
tolerance to trypanosomiasis, transmitted by the tsetse fly and widely
prevalent in much of Africa. For this reason N-Damas have become much
sought after by countries with humid tropical climates like Guinea's where
the disease poses a major health hazard to less resistant breeds. Due to
the N'Dama's heartiness, sizeable export potential exists for these animals,
and in turn for earning Guinea much needed foreign exchange. This activity
would be explored and developed under the proposed project as part of the work
program of the Bureau d-Etudes to be established within the Livestock Service
(para. 30).
29.       Herd productivity in Guinea is low despite the careful attention
paid by herdsmen to their cattle. This situation is due mainly to poor
animal health. Major disease hazards are contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
(CBPP), anthrax, blackleg, pasteurellosis and rinderpest; internal and
external parasites can result in serious debilitation, and trypanosomiasis
is a threat particularly to weak animals. Furthermore, lack of minerals
limits animal growth, and over-milking of cows reduces calf growth rates and
increases calf mortality. Parasites probably cause the most serious overall
economic losses to the livestock sector.
Institutional Structure
30.       Overall authority for development of Guinea's livestock sector
lies with the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries which was created as
a separate Ministry in 1979. The General Directorate of Livestock (DGE) is
the agency under the Ministry in charge of implementing field activities.
Responsibility for sectoral analysis planning and evaluation of investment
proposals in the livestock sector has up till now been handled by a research
and planning office within the Ministry. Under the proposed project, the
functions of this office as they specifically relate to the livestock sector
would be largely taken over by a new research and planning unit, Bureau
d'Etudes (BDE), to be created within the DGE (para. 51). Responsibility for



- 10 -
education of veterinary and livestock production personnel is shared with the
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research for high-level staff, and
with the Ministry of General and Vocational Education for middle-level employees.
31.       The DGE heads a field livestock service that operates within the
country's overall regional administrative structure through 33 small regional
offices (Direction Regionale de l'Elevage et de la Peche-DREPs), which are in
turn broken down into about 320 districts based on the number of arrondisse-
ments (subregional administrative units) in the country. The intended func-
tion of the Livestock Service is to continually survey the state of animal
health, to diagnose disease and give medicines, treatments and vaccinations,
and to provide advice on animal husbandry. However, its performance is
currently constrained by inadequate infrastructure, a critical shortage of
equipment and materials for disease diagnosis and treatment, lack of trans-
portation which hampers mobility of field services and, most importantly, the
virtual absence of key veterinary inputs such as drugs, medicines and mineral
salts. Further, staff quality is low because of inadequate practical training
and also the lack of appropriate on-the-job experience with modern veterinary
and animal husbandry techniques due to the shortage of equipment and materials.
The main emphasis of the proposed project would be to assist the Government in
responding to these urgent needs.
Sector Education and Staffing
32.       Guinea has two intermediate-level livestock colleges and three
higher faculties. Some senior personnel of the Ministry and Livestock
Service have studied abroad, although courses were often poorly adapted to
tropical livestock conditions. Most sector staff are graduates of the
national system in which the quality of education is very inadequate. The
institutions lack even the most basic library, laboratory, and practical
training facilities, and curricula are often only marginally relevant to
sector needs. Moreover, teaching staff are generally recent graduates
of the same institutions, and often lack the specialized training and field
experience to be effective teachers.
33.       Government's present policy is to guarantee jobs to all graduates
of its higher education system. However, the Livestock Service and Ministry
are already fully staffed at the middle and upper levels, and enrollments at the
educational institutions are too high. At the present rate, the number of
these personnel to be employed in the sector could well double in three years
and triple in five, creating considerable budgetary problems and substantially
decreasing sectoral efficiency.
34.       Resolution of the above issues, which are also endemic to other
sectors, will require fundamental changes in Government's policies with regard
to education, training and manpower planning. Nevertheless, the authorities
are aware of the need to start tackling these problems, and the First Educa-
tion Project provides three consultant years to assist in tailoring educa-
tional curricula and output to the needs of various sectors, especially
agriculture. Moreover, a Unesco educational survey mission in early 1980 also



- 11 -
concentrated on these areas with particular attention to the rural sector.
Under the proposed project, Government has agreed that one of the functions of
the BDE, to be set up within the DGE and assisted by an internationally
recruited economist, will be to follow up on this work and to help establish
manpower requirements and develop measures aimed at limiting admissions into
education institutions and reducing overstaffing in the sector. Steps to
initiate a system for that purpose will be undertaken not later than
December 31, 1981 (Section 3.08 of draft Development Credit Agreement). Until
an appropriate strategy is developed and implemented, however, the proposed
project will provide, as a first step toward improving the training of
Livestock Service personnel, an upgrading center for all existing staff as
well as fellowships abroad for higher level staff.
Marketing, Pricing, and Taxation
35.       Marketing of cattle is done both through an official channel and
through the unofficial or "parallel" market. Cattle on the official market
are sold to regional livestock purchasing enterprises who in turn deliver
the animals either to an official regional butcher for local sale of meat or
to one of two main slaughterhouses for subsequent sale by OBETAIL, the
Government enterprise in charge of supplying meat to Conakry. The level of
sales on the official market is based on a quota system whereby 10 percent
of each farmer's cattle herd must be sold to Government. Data on herd size
is gathered through an annual census carried out by local administrative
officials. Prices on the official market are only about 20 percent of those
on the parallel market, Government's objective being to supply meat to con-
sumers in Conakry at prices intended to keep the cost of living low.  However,
such prices encourage cattle owners to conceal part of their herd from the
census takers, to evade as far as possible the livestock purchasing enter-
prises, and to offer only their worst animals for sale.- Moreover, animal and
weight losses in transit are high as a result of unsatisfactory handling. The
official system, however, has not been strictly enforced by Government which
has increasingly tolerated parallel market activity.
36.       Because herdsmen and consumers have been able to trade on the
parallel market, continuation of the official system (provided no further
measures are attempted by Government to enforce it more strictly) would have
only a minor impact on incentives for farmers to adopt project recommenda-
tions. Nevertheless, it would continue to compromise relations between
livestock extension workers and herders (because the former carry out their
own census suspected by herdsmen to form the basis of the quota), and hamper
such actions as sanitary meat inspection. Moreover, by discouraging farmers
from selling to Government, the low prices could inhibit development of an
official N'Dama export market.
37.       These observations have been discussed with Guinean authorities who,
although sensitive to Government policy on the issue, nevertheless agree that
there are inefficiencies in the system as currently practised. Accordingly,
the Government has agreed that not later than December 31, 1981, it will take



- 12 -
measures satisfactory to the Association aimed at removing the above con-
straints to livestock sector development and offering adequate production
incentives to herdsmen (Section 3.13 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Detailed analysis regarding adjustment of cattle prices will be carried out by
the BDE during the first year of the project. This analysis will take into
account the interim findings of the agricultural pricing study presently being
carried out under the Rice Development Project (Credit 952-GUI).
38.       Government revenues from the livestock sector stem primarily from
the "vaccination tax", an inappropriately named assessment which is essen-
tially a cattle poll tax of US$0.80 per adult animal. Collection is done by
Government tax officials based on the annual census conducted by regional
administrations. Revenues from the tax go to regional budgets and are not
specifically earmarked to go back into the sector. Moreover, because herdsmen
inaccurately report herd size to census takers and evade the tax collectors,
the amount of money obtained annually (Sylis 6 million or US$300,000) is
judged to be little more than the cost of the collection effort. The revenues
that would be made under the project through sale to herdsmen of veterinary
products and mineral licks (Sylis 280 million or US$14.6 million over the four
year project period) would substantially exceed the relatively insignificant
returns from the tax. For this reason, and due to the negative impact of the
tax on herdsmen's attitudes toward the Livestock Service, Government has
agreed that measures to phase out the tax will be undertaken by December 31,
1981 (Section 3.12 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Strategy and Investment Programs
39.       The Government-s primary objective in the livestock sector is
to increase national meat production, particularly for urban consumers.
It also wishes to improve nutrition through higher milk production, increase
the standard of living of cattle herding families, and further develop the
potential for mixed farming through animal traction. Herdsmen are receptive
to the use of appropriate inputs, the N-Dama breed is highly suited to the
local environment, and in most areas there are sufficient pasture resources.
A principal constraint, however, is the lack of appropriate veterinary and
animal husbandry support services. Recent efforts to improve the animal
health situation have consisted essentially of two UNDP/FAO assisted projects:
a vaccination program in eastern Guinea, and an upgrading of the vaccine
production and disease diagnosis laboratory at Kindia in the west. The
vaccination campaign has helped Government largely eradicate contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia in the east, and significantly reduce the incidence of other
diseases. Both projects have been successful. Other programs in the sector
include a pilot genetic improvement exercise sponsored by UNDP, and a proposal
to establish a ranch in the Forest Region for which an agreement has been
signed between Government and a private group which would operate the ranch as
an autonomous commercial venture.
40.       The Association supports the Government's livestock strategy, and
through the proposed project would begin to help Government tackle the major
causes of low cattle productivity. Because the two UNDP/FAO projects are due
to end in December 1981, one aspect of the project would take over where



- 13 -
these leave off, while also extending the vaccination program to the western
half of the country, and upgrading animal health services throughout the
country for improved treatment of parasitic diseases and other ailments. The
proposed project is also intended as a vehicle for institutional reforms. The
policy proposals agreed with Government (paras. 34 and 37-38) will address
key inefficiencies related to sector education and staffing and to cattle
marketing, pricing and taxation. The improvements concerning these matters
expected to be made during execution of the project will be facilitated by the
institutional strengthening and staff resources to be provided under the
project. Such changes would help ensure the full realization of the sector-s
sizable long-term development potential.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       Initial livestock sector analysis and project identification were
financed with funds available under the ongoing Daboya Pineapple Project
(Credit 569-GUI) and carried out in 1977 by consultants. The project concept
was subsequently revised by Government in agreement with the Bank's Regional
Mission in Western Africa (RMWA), and a preparation report was submitted by
RMWA to Government in July 1978. Appraisal took place in October/November
1979. A US$200,000 PPF advance was approved in March 1980 to finance detailed
design and preparation of bidding documents for the project's building con-
struction program. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from July 22
to July 30, 1980 with a Guinean delegation headed by Mr. Mohamed Lamine Toure,
Vice-Governor of the Central Bank. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2959a dated
August 19, 1980 is being circulated separately. The map (IBRD 14977) shows
the location of the project.
Objectives and Description
42.       The project's major objective will be to increase the producti-
vity of the Guinean cattle herd, thereby augmenting national meat and milk
production, improving nutrition, and raising the standard of living of
cattle-herding families. This will be achieved through the following
measures: vaccinations against common cattle diseases, provision of drugs,
medicines and mineral licks, and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and
veterinary support service. While not the primary focus of the project, the
measures to be undertaken will also benefit other forms of livestock.
Resources will also be provided under the project to investigate areas of
high potential or of concern relating to the sector. The proposed
project will have a countrywide coverage, although its focus will be greater
in areas of higher cattle density. It will be implemented over four years
and will include:
(a) Institutional strengthening through:
(i) upgrading (provision of a new headquarters building,
equipment, and technical assistance) of the DGE to provide
a central capacity for day-to-day project implementation;



- 14 -
(ii)  establishment (provision of equipment and technical
assistance) within the DGE of a Research and Planning
Office (BDE) to undertake sectoral planning, special
studies, monitoring of ongoing operations, and preparation
of a possible follow-up project;
(b) Support for animal health and husbandry services through:
(i) upgrading of regional livestock services, including
reconstruction or refurbishing of regional headquarters
buildings (DREPs), and provision of basic equipment and
materials;
(ii)  sales to herdsmen of drugs, medicines and mineral
licks through the upgraded regional services;
(iii) a national vaccination campaign against common cattle
diseases by mobile teams organized under two field
headquarters;
(iv)  reinforcement of the central laboratory for vaccine
production and diagnosis of diseases; and
(v) a pilot credit program to encourage cattle ownership and
use of draft animals in mixed farming.
(c) Staff training through:
(i) establishment of a 40-person capacity training center for
short-term recycling courses (gener-ally one to three
weeks) for livestock service staff at various levels;
and
(ii)  provision of fellowships for overseas training for senior
project staff;
(d)  A total of 19 man-years of technical assistance (including
services in item (a) above), 30 man-months of short-term
consultant services, and the assistance of an architect/
construction supervisor to design and monitor the building
program.
The General Directorate of Livestock (DGE), under the authority of the
Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, will be responsible for implementation of
all project activities.
43.       Upgrading of Regional Livestock Services.  Under the project,
the field headquarters of the regional livestock service (DREPs) will be
reconstructed or refurbished and provided with the resources necessary to



- 15 -
conduct their work. Where needed, running water, electricity, and a telephone
will be supplied as well as basic furnishings, veterinary equipment and
veterinary products. At the arrondissement level, simpler equipment will be
provided.
44.       The main role of the DREP headquarters will be to support field
activities in the arrondissements. Each regional director will provide
administrative support and professional guidance to arrondissement staff, and
will be responsible for ordering, storage, distribution and accounting
of veterinary supplies channelled through his field staff to herders.
DREP directors will be answerable to the DGE in Conakry, but will also
maintain working linkages with the vaccination program field coordinators
and with the vaccine laboratory, both of which will be under the general
supervision of the DGE. The extension efforts of the regional services
will be supported by regular radio broadcasts on the national radio system in
the three main languages used by livestock owners. At the arrondissement
level, field staff will operate as general livestock extension officers
focussing primarily upon the treatment of sick animals.
45.       Vaccination Program.  The project's annual vaccination program
will aim at providing countrywide prophylactic coverage against the major
cattle diseases (para. 29). The overall strategy of the program will be the
same as that successfully used under the ongoing UNDP/FAO-assisted project in
the east. The vaccination campaign in the west (Middle and Maritime Guinea)
will get underway in the project's first year; financing of the eastern
program (Upper Guinea and the Forest Region) will begin in the second year,
after completion of the UNDP/FAO project in December 1981. Based on the
high rates of annual coverage already attained under the UNDP/FAO project (70
percent of the herd in eastern Guinea), the total number of annual vaccina-
tions under the proposed project is expected to increase gradually over the
four-year project period to 80 percent of the national herd.
46.       The proposed project will also finance continued operation and
strengthening of the vaccine production and disease diagnosis laboratory
(Institut de Recherches et de Biologie Appliquee - Nenenkhaly Condetto -
IRBANC) which was recently modernized under a second ongoing UNDP/FAO project.
The proposed IDA project will provide replacement equipment and supplies as
well as funds to develop those vaccines now being imported. Costing for the
proposed project has only allowed for estimated necessary replacements of worn
out UNDP-financed vehicles and equipment, because all items in good working
order financed under these two projects will continue to be made available for
use by the project (Section 3.09 draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Staff Training.  Training will be undertaken primarily at a 40-
person capacity recycling center to be constructed on the same site as the
IRBANC laboratory so as to make use of the laboratory's facilities for demon-
strations. The center will provide short intensive courses (1-3 weeks) for
existing Ministry and Livestock Service staff. Additional training will be



- 16 -
provided through on-the-job association with the project's technical assis-
tance staff, and through 15 medium-term (1-year) and 30 short-term fellowship
courses for the more senior staff within the Ministry and Livestock Service.
An internationally recruited livestock training specialist will direct the
center, and will be supported by a Guinean counterpart and a small group of
teaching and demonstration staff. A second internationally recruited special-
ist with a broad background in livestock teaching and extension work will
also be based at the center, but will be oriented primarily towards making
follow-up visits to DREP teams in the field and supervision of the pilot
credit scheme. Responsibility for identifying staff training needs, selecting
candidates, and forward planning will be handled by a small committee answer-
able to the Minister and composed of the project's senior staff. To facilitate
these planning activities, the committee will prepare and present to IDA at
least two months before the start of each fiscal year an outline program for
the next year, acceptable to the Association, for the training center and for
fellowship awards (Section 3.06 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Pilot Credit Scheme.  The project's pilot credit program will be
based at Kissidougou in the transition zone between the Forest Region and
Upper Guinea where soil and topography are well suited for use of draft
animals. Whereas use of draft oxen by more established families is quite
common there, the project will assist, through the provision of credit, the
ownership of livestock and draft oxen by poorer families. A participating
family will typically be expected to purchase one heifer and two males, plus
draft equipment, so as to form the nucleus of a future herd. However, some
flexibility will be allowed whereby a participant could purchase up to four
animals or, if he wishes to reduce his debt service obligation, he could
start with only two animals plus the draft equipment.
49.       The provision of agricultural credit in Guinea is currently under
the responsibility of the Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole (BNDA)
which, due to lack of field offices and staff, operates mainly through the
use of intermediaries for the administration of credit operations. Its
own role is generally restricted to providing funds and bearing risks. For
the proposed project, field management of the credit program will be carried
out by DGE staff, supervised by a Guinean credit program officer in liaison
with BNDA. Because the pilot scheme will involve innovations previously
untested on an organized basis in Guinea, this first venture will be a small-
scale one involving a total of about 100 families. Financing terms provide
for one year of grace followed by six years of annuity repayments at an
interest rate of 11%. Participants, who will be screened for suitability,
will have to contribute one-fifth of the investment cost, the remainder being
financed through credit. Debt service payments during the first years of the
program could be financed by contracting out work-oxen services, for which
there is an established local market. From year nine of the program, net
annual revenues from each participant's herd and work oxen are estimated to
average over US$950. Detailed arrangements regarding the credit scheme have
been agreed with Government and will form the basis of a model contract
acceptable to IDA to be used between participants, BNDA and DGE (Section 3.07
(ii) of draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
50.       Other Activities.  While the project will focus primarily on the
activities described above, other important sector matters to be dealt with
by the DGE or BDE include: export of N'Dama breeding stock, genetic improve-
ment measures, and forage resource management.
Implementation
51.       Detailed implementation of field activities will be carried out
by the DGE, headed by a Guinean director. Four main operational departments
within DGE will be in charge respectively of: the regional livestock ser-
vices, the vaccination program, the IRBANC laboratory, and the training
center. A department of financial and administrative services will handle
project finances and accounting, procurement, and storage and distribution of
supplies. The western and eastern vaccination programs will each be run by a
field coordinator. The BDE, also headed by a Guinean, will be responsi-
ble for overall sector policy for special studies such as those relevant to
marketing and pricing, manpower planning, education and recruitment, and for
monitoring of ongoing operations. In view of the importance to project
implementation of the Guinean directors of DGE and BDE, a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Credit will be that they be in position and be
appropriately qualified and experienced. The Government has provided assur-
ances that it will also fill at all times the positions of other key local
staff with qualified and experienced personnel (Sections 5.01 (a) and 3.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Technical Assistance.  Six internationally recruited specialists--in
all, 19 man-years of technical assistance--will assist Guinean cadres in
specialized activities for which local expertise is limited. These positions
will be: (i) an economist in the BDE to assist in sector planning and evalua-
tion, and to help revise sector training and recruitment, and pricing and
marketing policies; (ii) a livestock specialist at DGE to supervise the
project's field operations; (iii) a financial manager for DGE's financial
and administrative services department; (iv) a veterinarian specialized in
disease diagnosis and vaccine production for the IRBANC laboratory; (v) a
livestock training specialist for the recycling center; and (vi) a livestock
extension specialist to assist at the training center, to undertake follow-up
visits to regional staff, and to oversee the credit program and any activities
regarding export of breeding stock. In order to encourage the transfer of
specialist expertise to Guinean cadres, terms of reference for internationally
recruited personnel will place strong emphasis on their role in assisting
counterpart staff to acquire the specialist skills.
53.       Provision for the employment of an architect/construction supervisor
for the building program, and for the hire of about 30 man-months of short-term
specialist services would also be provided for such purposes as: supplemental
courses at the training center, design of radio programs for extension work,
hiring of a credit specialist to initiate the pilot credit program, and
assistance for special studies. The qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment, and terms of reference of all technical assistance
staff and short-term consultants will be satisfactory to the Association



- 18 -
(Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement). As a condition of
effectiveness, the Government should have signed a contract with a consulting
firm for the project's six resident technical assistance staff (Section 5.01
(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost and Financing
54.       Total project costs are estimated at US$21 million (US$20.4 million
net of tax), of which US$ 17.5 million or 83 percent is foreign exchange.
Total project costs include an estimated US$0.6 million in Government markups
on fuel, lubricants, and construction materials, which represent a tax element.
Technical assistance costs, which amount to US$2.9 million or 19 percent of
base costs (inclusive of all fees, overheads, airfares, and expenses), have
been estimated on the basis of recent consultant contracts in Guinea, and
average US$9,600 per month for the project's resident staff and US$13,000 per
month for short-term consultant services. Cost estimates do not include any
local staff salaries because in view of Government's overstaffing, the pro-
posed project is not expected to require additional personnel. Base costs are
expressed in mid-1980 prices. Physical contingencies amount to US$1.3 million,
and allowances for expected price increases are based on anticipated local and
international inflation rates and amount to US$4.4 million.
55.       The proposed IDA Credit for the equivalent of SDR 13.3 million
equivalent (US$17.5 million) would finance the project's foreign exchange
cost. The Government will contribute US$2.4 million including US$0.6 million
in taxes stemming from the above markups on fuel, lubricants, and construction
materials. Herdsmen will finance US$1.1 million of project costs through
payments for veterinary products and mineral licks. A breakdown of project
costs is shown in the cost table on page (iii).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       International competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines
will be used for all contracts over US$50,000 for: (i) equipment, vehicles,
materials and furnishings (estimated cost US$4.0 million); (ii) veterinary
products for supply to farmers (US$5.7 million); and (iii) construction works
(estimated cost US$3.2 million of which IDA US$2.1 million). About US$11.8
million of IDA financing will therefore be for items procured through inter-
national competitive bidding. Purchases will be grouped wherever practical
to derive maximum advantage from bulk procurement. For civil works, mate-
rials, equipment, vehicles, furnishings and veterinary products that cannot be
grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 each (US$1.4 million), procurement
will be through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or
through negotiated purchase on the basis of local price quotations. Certain
minor materials, furnishings, and small equipment which are currently obtained
through centralized Government importing agencies will continue to be pur-
chased through this mechanism (estimated cost US$0.3 million). Arrangements
for the hiring of internationally recruited staff and short-term consultant
services (US$3.6 million) and for the fellowship program (US$0.4 million)
will be through procedures satisfactory to IDA. Bidding documents for
construction contracts will be subdivided into lots arranged so as to provide
the opportunity for bidding by small locally represented construction firms.
In evaluating bids for constructions, local contractors will be allowed a 7.5
percent preference (Schedule 3 of draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
57.       The IDA credit will be disbursed over four and a half years to
cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of: construction, equipment,
furnishings, spare parts, laboratory materials, chemicals, incremental
purchases of veterinary products (drugs, medicines, and mineral salts),
technical assistance staff and other consultant services, and the fellowship
program (SDR 12.31 million - US$16.2 million). The Credit will refinance the
amount disbursed under the PPF advance (SDR 0.15 million - US$0.2 million) and
will also cover 16 percent of foreign expenditures for replacement purchases
of veterinary products (SDR 0.84 million - US$1.1 million). The disbursements
against replacement purchases of veterinary products are calculated so as to
avoid IDA financing of foreign exchange costs in fuel and lubricant and
transportation costs (para. 55). All disbursements will be fully documented
(Schedule 1 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Financial Procedures, Reports, and Audits
58.       For the project's foreign expenditures, a special account in
foreign exchange will be set up in the Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
(BGCE). Working capital requirements in this fund will be kept at a minimum
through direct payments to suppliers whenever possible, but some foreign
exchange will be necessary for financing by Government of certain smaller
items and materials purchased directly for the project, and for the direct
financing of some fellowship costs and short term consultancies. This re-
volving fund will be equivalent to US$100,000, and will be established
immediately after project effectiveness through a withdrawal of this amount
from the IDA Credit. IDA will replenish the account upon receipt of evidence
of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures. Should
any disbursements be made from the fund that are not acceptable to IDA,
Government will be responsible for replenishing the fund in the corresponding
amount (Section 2.03 (d) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The opening
of an account in the BGCE for the revolving fund will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 5.01 (c) of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
59.       Payments received by livestock service staff from herdsmen for
veterinary products and mineral licks will be deposited in the regional
banks and subsequently transferred to a central account earmarked for this
purpose in the Banque Nationale du Developpement Agricole (BNDA) in Conakry.
Given the large volume of veterinary supplies and medicines to be provided
by the project, a carefully designed system of record keeping and accounting
will be used. Project progress reports will be produced quarterly and
annually. An audit report prepared by a qualified independent auditor under
procedures satisfactory to IDA will be submitted to IDA within four months of
the end of each financial year (Section 4.02 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 20 -
Cost Recovery
60.       Charges for veterinary products and mineral licks will be set
at levels designed to cover purchase and distribution costs, and to provide a
margin to compensate for the absence of revenues due to the imminent abolition
of the vaccination tax. In setting these charges, herdsmen's ability and
willingness to pay will be taken into account. The level of such charges and
any adjustments will be discussed annually with IDA (Section 3.05 (b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). So as to cover Government's financial require-
ments for repurchase of veterinary products and mineral salts, funds received
from herdsmen for these products in the account with BNDA will be converted
to foreign exchange at the official exchange rate between the syli and the
foreign currencies required. Should herdsmen's contributions be insufficient
to meet these needs, Government will provide the extra funds required (Sec-
tion 3.05 (a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
61.       The project's directly quantifiable benefits will result from
substantial improvements in livestock productivity. These have been esti-
mated entirely in terms of cattle output, the project's specific focus, but
other forms of livestock would also gain. Through the project's vaccination
coverage and improved veterinary and animal husbandry services, national
beef production is anticipated to increase by 30 percent or 4,200 t per
annum, and milk by 39 percent or 11,000 t per annum by full project develop-
ment. This will represent a significant improvement in the population-s
protein intake. Almost all of Guinea's cattle-owning families (1.3 million
people) will benefit from the vaccination program, and the majority are
expected to use the upgraded veterinary services. Aggregate net real income
from the livestock sector is expected to increase by 30 percent.
62.       The institution-strengthening and training measures will provide
the basis for planning and implementing other livestock activities, including
a possible second project based on the productivity impetus gained by the
proposed operation, and for examining and helping resolve critical sectoral
problems. Furthermore, the pilot credit program will encourage the spread of
cattle ownership and the use of draft oxen, and will establish a framework
through which advantageous mixed farming systems (closely interrelating
livestock and cropping practices) could be developed. The project's economic
rate of return is estimated at 25 percent, and will remain a viable 14 percent
even under the combined assumptions of a herdsmen participation rate of only
75 percent of expectations, an implementation delay of one year, and a cost
increase of 20 percent.
63.       The project involves no major technical risks.  Main risks relate
to: (i) the importance of staffing the project with qualified Guinean and
internationally recruited technical assistance personnel and obtaining support
from the Government institutions connected with the project; and (ii) the
willingness of livestock owners to participate in the project. The risk of
not attracting qualified staff will be minimized by careful attention to
selection of key Guinean personnel and consultants. Fellowships and courses



- 21 -
at the training center will aid this effort. Further, the project's institu-
tional arrangements (organizational, administrative and financial) have been
designed to simplify and facilitate for the Government the logistical and
accounting problems inherent in a countrywide project of this scope. Concern-
ing the second risk, Guinean livestock owners are fully aware through contacts
with herdsmen in neighboring countries of the benefits of veterinary inputs
and mineral licks. When available in Guinea, such items are in high demand
and herdsmen readily pay for them. The improvements to the marketing and
pricing system agreed with Government will provide further incentives for
active participation of herdsmen in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately. Features of particular interest in the draft Development
Credit Agreement are referred to in Parts III and IV, and in Annex III to the
present report.
65.       Special conditions of effectiveness are:  (a) the Directors of the
DGE and BDE shall be in their posts and shall have qualifications and experi-
ence satisfactory to the Association; (b) the signing of a contract satis-
factory to the Association for the project's technical assistance positions;
and (c) opening of an account in BGCE for the foreign exchange revolving fund.
(Section 5.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 19, 1980



- 22-                                             Annex 1
Pane I
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (         AEIGHT  S
LAND AREA (TROUSAND SO. KM.)                                                     - __DST RECENT ESTIHATE_)
TOTAL            245.9
AGRICULTURAL      71. 7                              MOST RECENT            OWU INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /    1970 /b ESTIVATE /   AFRICA S0UTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 80.0       110.0    210.0/               228.9                   726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     65.0        98.0      91.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     3.1         4.1       5. 1- / Li
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.9        13.8      18.0                 17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       23.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IH.                      13.0        17.0      21.0                 27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    45.0        58.0      71.0                 82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.1        42.5      43.5                 44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        55.1        54.7      53.6                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.8         2.8       2.9                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.8       2.9/c                2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             9.0         6.1       6.4                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        47.0      46.0                 47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PgR THOUSAND)     30.0       24.0      21.0                 19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5/e       3.1       3.1                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACcEPrORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0       100.0      86.0                 91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  86.0        90.0      84.0                 90.2                   92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        44.0      42.7                 53.0                   53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       8.0         7.0       8.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    45.0        36.0      30.0                 27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTN (YEARS)   35.0        40.0      43.0                 45.3.                  50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         141.0f         ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      10.0                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..          ..      27.0                 58.0                   66.8
RURAL                              ..          *-       3.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        13.0        ..                 28.9
URBAN                              ..        70.0        ..                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         2.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        48000.0    32519.0  16629.0/d              30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3890.0      5231.0   2449.0/d             5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL sED
TOTAL                          1122.0       612.OLa  616.0                1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                           207.0       146.0
RURAL                          2199.0      1271.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        16.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                                                   ..                ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 23-                                          Annex 1
Page 2
TARLE U
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHBBT
GUINEA                       REFIRENCE GROUPS (WEIIHTED AVIICB
- MUST RECENT ZSSIT TI )
IDSI RZCENT           LOW INCOMI             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  l     1970 / ESTIMATE /   AFRICA SOUSH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHANA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                30.0         33.0        ..                 57.7                     61.7
MALE                 44.0         45.0        ..                 74.2                     69.2
FBMILE               16.0         21.0       ..                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         13.0        ..                 10.0                     20.6
MALE                  3.0         21.0        ..                 13.7                     29.2
FBIALE                0.4         5.0         ..                  7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..          3.2        ..                  6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           66.0         36.0        ..                 45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                         26.0         23.0        ..                 25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         7.0         9.0/b      ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0          2.0       2.0                  3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        12.0         23.0      27.0                 31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..         ..                  1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.2          1.0       1.0                  4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..                    ..                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1521.6      1939.6    2308.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.3         40.3      39.0                 33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             88.2         84.7      82.0                 80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.1          8.5      11.0                  8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                49.6        47.7      46.1                 42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 59.5        57.4      55.8                  55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                               39.9        38.1      36.6                  29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9         1.0       1.0                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                138.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      70.0                107.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 66.9.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of coumtries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Recent Government estimates from Adminiatrative Census indicate a resident population (excluding non-
Cuineans) of 4.53 mill. in 1977 and population growth rate of 2.71 p.a.; /d WHO preliminary estimated
data; /e African population; If 1955-60 average; J/ Governmmnt hospitals only; /h 1965.
Apri , 1980
/1.    New national accounts estimates were produced as a result of the February/March 1980 economic mission
and indicate a GNP per capita of US$274 in 1979.  These estimates will be discussed and finalized with
Government in late 1980 within the context of a forthcoming Economic Memorandum.
/1    Updated Bank estimates indicate total population of 5.3 million in 1979.



-24 -                                                                      Annex 1
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes; Although the data are drass frn sources ge....ely judged the most so-horitati-e end reliable, it sha-ld alo be sated thaet they 'say sac be inter-
uatio.ally o-paeals b.osu.s of the lack of ntasdardlesd dafieitisas sad conce.pts used by differest caustetas Os sollecetig th. dsta.  The data are, sse-
theless, seefo1 to d-scibe aedeen of megaitrde, indicate tren.ds, aed Chsra...triaaerCtais ajar differeaces betes..scao....rie..
The,eeec   gap   r  (1) the. sass...a.try group of the sshjeCt  su-try end (2) a country gesap with sarehat high-e sn-esge   um   the  the co..s.ry grouP
af the sujec_      oty(.acptOa '.Capital Surplus Oil Espaetsrt" grasp sheer. "Middle  .n.ase Earth Aftia  en.d Middle Oats" is threes because af sarauger
oc-ctueaffisities) -  I  the ref.eeCe.. . gap data the asrge   r  papoletis  weighted aritheetie mesas tar ...ah indloater and sheer asy sh.. at
least  haSP af the  aarieaagesap has date far that Inditata.  Since the acs                   fg c- utetes sman  the ideaar  deedsa   he  -rtlbhility of
data  s  isst     Csf i, ceulsms beeera.ised ia reltiag asssg-s ad ea  (adiCater ctasthr   The.   segeare                               asy  efa   -crapariog the v-lua
Oaeicdilcaca  at a time sogthe aco.ntry sad  rfraegreups.
LAND ARtA (thaoaseqhn)Parultics car  hosul     - Papuuetlat auvtae,s by sumter oa rac igPry-
Tatal - local sur ace are  comprising lead araad ilelgd water.CsasaqaIid ra       eia   calata.encylvl
Agricultural - EstIat   ofarcutrl           drss ed tepcriyo   ersesl                         a    ta   e    -arlig P ernan - Papulatias dtstded hy sombera:          rerc
for copa,  asturs, mahat sdkbother.  reso  to lie fiella; 1977 data,               maeen   eal   rduate tortes 'praCtical curses,ed esiast nuss
GNP PER  APII~~.-GNP p.C  .pit. ..-t   C9-rkt pti...   Caches, sadirarel)idis%ided. by nheir repecti'  number sof hapita1 beds
c-1ated hy s         -m covarla  method as World Saab Atlas (1976 -P8 basin); 1960,            available  Inpablie and private  general and sperielierd bspinal end re-
19)0,. d 1978 data.                                                                            habilinenlen c.enter.   Hoapita1s are nstablinhb.entn permeaenly nteffed
hy et least see physician. Eatbhliebtmesta pre-tdi,g prIncIpally cu.etadia1
tNERGY CONSUMPTION FEE CAPITA - As"a1.... cnaptica of  a                 I.ela  eegy Ilae        care see   etaldd.  Rural haspitale, h-wsm, ialade health and medical
sod  ligita, peroem,oture1 gas an ydra-  nalarad geonheema   lec-                              cetrsnt  emaetly staffed by * physicies (but by a medical saieet..
telcity) ia killagrama at oal eqoi-ulent per tapita; 1960, 1970, gad 1978                       se,midwife, ste.) shih af fe  i-pa1tiesatsadnansd prC.ide
date,                                                                                          limited range af medita1 fclitie.  Per statimnttl  Pares rban hampi-
POPPLATINI AltO OCTAL STATOSTICO                                        ~~~~tale isclsde WO.SO  pelsolpa1 general end specialisd haspict-I,  and rura
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                         ~~~~~~~hseyitaln   . Icn  or rural hespitels end medical end"mtsrtty crater.
Tata1 Paralatlc..  Mid-Year (mlin)- As of July 1; 1960, 1970, snd 1978                       Admissions pter-opital Sad - Totl amber at adminsiass t.ora discharges
data.                                                              Pram hosp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ital  divided by the number of beds.
Orhat 1porlatios(ecn  af teu.t.   - Ratla ofurbso ta  . ease  papalatias;
di'fferent dafiuttiana of orb e.t areas maye affect conprsility at data                 HOUSING
acgu..uatrlsa;1960, 1970, utd 1978 data.                                                A-meag. uSe. af Ficashald (farca ...e.r ba-eeha1di -  totl  arhaI. end rural
Papulacios Pro (earicus                                               ~~~~~A has.sh-Id caniste of a 9reap of individalsabI       har  livgg quattrn
Poyslelon i  Tsar  100 -Curret  -popaltio  proj mcti. sueer  haaed .. 1980          sad their maia meals,   A hoarder Sr lodger may Sr may  not be ilcludad it
total papulaIcla.  by ;ag  AMd send their s.Ctslitpadfrii    ae,                           tehsyhl   a   tseie    ufne
Projectlso P prmter  far .artalty rates tomprise of thre   ees  eo-                     Aseregeswe-beaferaearos - canal  urba.. sd coral - A-vergesue.-
lug life eapct...cyaIt bIrth istra.sing with ccuatry's per espies i. as                    e .f.peresa  per raa_ Ic~ all urbss  sad  ura  at-piedtaseaia
..sel, sad f_mal life     P... ap CanY sthil ietg at 77.5 years.  The para-              dwellings, r-p-cti-ely.  D.allangar-cIsdesan-pmsen   stacuessd
actternfor fe-tility rate elsa have thtse le-1etemIgdecline in                             ncuidprs
farul ty accr"s  ScE t ac   lve  sd  et feetly pla..niag perfrmats                     Acc.e. ca El-ttrialty (preroet af deellgnas  -  ,tota, urban,and rural -
Elah curyis thea a                .iu . n  of. t"hese site  coba olm f  -merrlny          Csavetisa..l dwellings sit0  e1ectitityt  lsa    srter  aspr . C
and fertility trea.ds far p-jectiac pu-pasec.                                             of tetal. urban, end rural d.elliug  respectively.
Sttanioc..CY cccaleatvn-Isuttaioa..ry .poplatiac there is Sc grwth since
cbs bIrth rats in    . eulto tha dsath reta, acd glue iha age strc.ture r-    EDOCATIO09
asacnsat.Tisi taahieved auly aftc  fertility rates dec line to                          Adjusted Esra1luart Ratian
the,elaees   evl.atfnt te   rpadci    rt, -hI...eah ge.eraclc                             Primers sabsal- tatel, male atd female-lease.  teta., mal  et d female
ofcnsrPlaces itsel  ecrtl.  The scatiacary papUlatin ales asIalat afal  ages at she primar .ee  as. pere'tge  of r.ap.c tive
cenisated on the basis ofth   rjatad characteristics of the papa1atics                       primary schel-ag   paaltin    nomlyicae    hldr-  aged 6-11
Is the year 28011, sad the rate of decline at fertility rate ta replace-                    pages bat adJusted for differeenC lesgthn of primaryeuain  far
mast Icrel.                                                   cauntrlescish  usisereal e~~~~~~ducatils earlmat map eace.d 100 Percat
Yea stetiS...ry crla eis rea be hd - The year ohms  tatiasary papulatian                       elate sae pl  are balro   bas he afficie1 achaal age.
utas has b...s reahed.                                                                    Seteedary eabal - tatsl, male end female  _Campatedasa b-se;encsdery
Pocolatico DO.c.ity                                                                              Cdct_rqisa    ea   au   er   fapee    rmr                          ictutic;
per as. ku. - Eid-year papulatian per uq-ar  kilam..ter (100 hectarasl of                      pravidee general, vct Iatl   rtahrtesngierti                          o       i
tatulaea                                                                                     .s.ally at 12 to 17 years at sam; carrespandence o.Curee  are gese-aly
Per na. Zt. -geicoltor1 lend - Camped as abase far agric-laurl land                            eals.drd
_Iy                                                                                     VP.tatiamal enralIment (cerreet of  .et.nday) - VY.t.tia...l isecitotti.t.
PopulatlaS Age Structure fepro.t)    hildraa (i-l4 years). erkiag-ege (15                        i-clde trahniasl, iadsmtira, Sr atber peagn  ehioh apercrt Ondeper-
64 years ), cad reIe.6.         ersndcm)a  per ...cages of aid-year papo-                      deectly Cra  dprtet  af anre der  itinetin.
P.clas; OIO  1970D, sad 1978 date.                                                        -   Pgucth-setachfrt retia - pryer. an  aecan.dar  - Total etodass erolled is
~ppolantct irath Eats (earest) - tat At- Ana   rtbriea7ttlmd                         primry and ....asdery Ieces disided by  -abere  tf teachers is the
year  ppltnsfar 1950-hI, 1960-70, and 1979-78.                                                 cares.. ndgg level.
'Paplacics rCacth icts  pret    ura               - .A.saI groeth eteet s ofrbes  5pOp.       Adslt literaty race (perCeat) - Litreats adults (able to reed gdc t
latio.s for 1950-60, 1960-7G I sad..t 1970-78d.    pp..i.     ed15yr..
Crde Birh Eata (cer thacsod  - Acao1 live births par th..a.nd at mid-year
papla tice; 1960. 1970, ssd 1978 date..OSMTO
Crud leash sacs (err thamed) - A-,:I deasha per thaunand of aid-year                         P...e.a.  Care (Se apbrtu....d psasletis) ~- Passen ger tare oePriaImoo
papoleto; 19610, 1970, and 1978 data                                                         cars setiag less thac might persons;  aC1ades  -ebals...n.. hease  asd
Crass Rcpadoctias cats-Averge sasbar af daghtara a  ae ill hear in                             silinerysebicle..
he  .cr-I -epr-do-tive period it she esPeria..... PC....t age-speci.fiafe-                 Redia Receivers leer thassand sees1stiar) - All tYpes of rce..ivers Par radii
nil Iny rates;suly fie-ea .ae.g.  es%.disg is 196,190,    en.               177              breaaesn   eea   alcprsasn   fpplts;mcoe    ai
familyPlaanla-Accataca,  scoal(thcoast     - Acasal nuabr atacPtar                   sed raci-ers Is aestrias med in pees               -bP regitesia  at radiaat
of  lcc-oatrc  daica aderseptreatnataca  failyplnaig pagrs.          ssis effect; dare fer recet pears my sat he campaeble aiscmas
fasllo Plaaticg-Onea (pnrcens at marrid eaanI    Perenag   at marrid.               cenra          alishd  Iicsig
aecof child-bearing age (15-44 years) eb. see hirth-canttrn   eicsr                    TO imamisers (ea' r thas....d pselefa)     T  rce-i-rs far braadt...t tn
all sarried se  it san  age group.                                                           gasrlpbli   e   hsed papuletica; ...clades eliressd TV  eevr
PoOR 0010 hiTAITlIR                                                     is ~~~~rautr    sadis.eses shins regissessies of TO nete tea  is  tert
Iodec at Puad Praduica perC Cri ta(19~69-PNl:~00I - Indes of pac capita  -ergl               Sewar1parerCiilein      tre     .h.en cra_ aian I d Sfi rs the iaverage inul-
prodoce icIs                 ~dl          'r'          . -..   ..    .    edlicetisa dev..ted primarily  t. rance dimagnea  nle   O   sossiderd
is os c-landar yea  basis.  Ccincditice Caver primary goods (e.g. eaens                       ab   diy   fi   per   tlatta  times eatme t
Iatedatsga)e ho aretrdls andcatiatise  (e.g. aef tee and                                  Cinem  iA-..Il Asnt-danse mrEeaerOe-esdaCh   abra
tea are etclded).  Aggrgt  prcda...... aft eac ...try is base.d astickesa addduia  the year, ineladiag adaisslan   ta driv-Sn  ci-ea
ctaaaverage prada.Ce  price emights; 1961-6,1970,11 and 1978 date.an                            ..Idb anse
Pe Iapt pnely af tlaie    ecent afrvirmss  - Camysted tram
enery sqic     of,,t   tae  faod supplies  -vileble in  -catr  par rapit.       CLABOb, PURGE
per  ay.Availeble supplies uanprise damnl r..              tc,  mat  lees,              Total I.ebar Parts (thbsoeada  - Enanamically activepret  s iadig
tepa-c, an   hae   neai.Rtsple   slueaia   ed   eeg                                        re   Srned  sne-played bun ...cOadieg basai-es, studets, etc.
qutcItasusd in .fad pracela..ig, sad lasses iv dintihotien.  Require-               Dmfisoiti.s in sri..ctoautcriesseasastc...psesble; 1960. 1970 ead
neSts car  Cai-  td by PAO based as phymiaagicl1 nee ds tar nrml Ieast                     1978 dana.
Slay and heal th noeideriag essir-nmtl cenparatsre, body weights,aePIl  rret       eeelhrfau   spresg    tntllbrfre
ati se  dibtrihotiosf papaltca1n.            elnng1   tena  farcesat                    Agisrr    (secn) - Labar fares in terming. Pfrettry  haia  and
hoseod.level;C1961-65,1970,1 sa   97P den.C"                                           fiabi.g.as P      Mreage at teta1 lab- farce; 1980, 1970'aed 1t9i78tdate
Per ..Pit. surly  t  ratei  (.crm    Per da)-Proteis  -ceonet ct pars .pita                Industry (-rere      - Labhr farce ia miing, catrain,m-fa.riurt
oat  ,oply aS fccd per day.  Net supply at food is deined as shave   Re-                   and     enrcs , cter and See as pereesrege aft ctsa  labar froc; 1960,
qurnasfar all  _oaneimo entabliahed hy USDOA praside far elism                      1970 and 1978 date.
ulwcaof 60 gr.as of total procein per day sad 20 gram   of anasi-  and             Particiratian State (rcsl- tctal. maa, end female - Perticipatica or
Puls  pratais, of which 11 gram  shauld he eatmal ptranis.  These steed-                   aniiyrieaecmue   sttl    ae   n   eaelbrfrea
a-ds err lower cha  thos . af. 75 grams at Setel Pratain ead 23 gras  af                   pt.  ..' ' I                                        bo    1     .
anImal  rocet  en asavrgefr abe earld, prupasad by PAl in thc Third                        p1r9 stge 19 f0 natal  male end femal p-       aeiss     llptgom resp ctivly;.
forli food Survey;P1'9611-f65, 1970 ad -1_9P7 data.                                       16,17,ed17   aa                  he   re10spriielnserfrt
Percanaroiceclfrnaiasaeaa - Prtms  upl_a tIdAm                                                ge-ass atractore of the papolatias, and IC9g time treed.  A few nI
rtved from   cime   andl palac  Is grmspe  day; 1961-65, 1970 end 1977 lac.-    icuait Decnd.... Ratis - Rccia at papalacirs under 15 acd 65 cad over
Child loose I     Mo Srtalit, Oats (cac IThased) - goAd..  deaths per nhcan...ddis             tatentllhrfre
age gras  I-i yeas, taolildreu it ths agtgrap;  tan1satbdsrlaiag   cos
tries..  data dete  fromt  life cables; 196i, 197  end 197  dta.                                     R,OS   ESISTO
OCALTs                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perreaneg  at Private Iao...s(bath is cah cad bind) - Rece.ived by richest
life isceotascy cc Birth (veers) A-CAarge a uber at years at lire  reasitieg          ofh. pceht  rihsd      0pret   ars   0pecn,sdpssA   eoc
ci birth; 19h0, 1970 and 1978 date..a   anble
Iefsc teMrtality Sete (err tha.s..is) - Ac..sal deaths of isfaatsusder one Year    POVfERTY TAGET GIROUPSP
of age Perthossa,d litae.b Eish.                                                            simned AhaslePvrsicm   Level (U70  a  caul-abascdrua 
Acc... ta OafsEereroe of y               lais)-tonl, urbat, sad rurl-ielseaenioeelvli   ha   caelve1eu   ba ahi                                                          siti
Nsaber ol people Itotal,  ebas, sad rural) with ree..u..hle aces  n  safe                     .tt  .  l     ..t    itp .               ..  i1tqi---i                        
cae uhe   hat fran prtrtad     hoboles, spigs, sa  aasitary wel)aReiae   e le PI                           vrry lose  Leve,l (00     -a     p ise) - urbcend rura --
pacetcc  oCheir repecIve papa.letiaa. O  as crbasarespblio                           Esralrela1tive-paverty i            I_m lve  is  _nethid at    r55m    per n.Pita
f-ootio or standps  locatd not err  thea 700 meters teas a h..e. may hr                      prabio            a  the      sty.   rbat leve  is derived Pram  the rura
cosieedenhl    isbi reC_o..blm  acan fa that hn.Is rural areas                        l-evle-lwitih adjmnecet for highe  vast of livn   in urbaaaras
r.....ahlc anuses :,,su,.d imply that the housewife or mem bers at the ba....hold          caJtlatd Ps..ul1tiss B'lan Absalate P-vrctmastislirret  - arbac
da oc  ba-  toep Idadiupropcrtia..tea   pact of the day ia fetShing she                       end eara1 - Perosn t ofpapulenies (urbanan   rua)  b   re"bslt  pact.
family'.  ..eater seds.
dispsalas  ercstaes   S  heir respective popa1esians.  iEor..a dli-                                                   lssi   s   ailSaeOv
pose) say islude the caletenad diapuse1, cub or  inbu  tretmet,C                                                        EcasaniCAely is sad Prjeoniasa lP_erset
o' h..:r .!_'. ..d  _e t-.t.r by -t--b.t.. ~~~y.Cere  or th.   -   of                                    April. 1980
Pit cri-ia avd similar os-callaicco.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.            X                1973-79    1976-79    1979 1/   1979-85 Projected
GNP at Market Prices           1,372.7          100.0                 3.4        0.6        0.4           3.8
Gross Domestic Investment         190.2          13.9                 0.9       -0.7        8.4           6.6
Gross National Savings            114.3           8.3                 5.4 2/     3.5       14.7
Current Account Balance           -76.0          -5.5               19.8        10.2        7.0
Export  of Goods, NFS            327.9           23.9               15.6        -1.0       -7.1           2.7
Import  of Goods, NFS           -350.1          -25.5               -0.3        -8.1       -8.0           1.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY, 1976-79
Value Added Constant 1973 Prices
US$ Million                         Percentages
1976    1977    1978    1979       1976    1977    1978    1979
Agriculture                  588.9   556.1   558.5   523.9        53.2    51.7    49.2    46.2
Industry and Mining          180.7   180.8   192.8   198.0        16.3    16.8    17.0    17.4
Services                     336.9   337.7   383.9   413.4        30.4    31.4    33.8    36.4
GDP at Market Prices       1,106.5 1,074.6 1,135.2 1,135.1       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 3/
Z of GDP
1977    1978    1979          1977    1978    1979
Current Receipts                8.20    8.85    9.73           30.8    30.8    33.1
Current Expenditures            4.31    5.16    5.55           16.2    18.0    18.9
Current Surplus                 3.89    3.69    4.18           14.6    12.8    14.2
Capital Expenditures            2.34    1.77    8.43 e          8.8      6.2    28.7 e
External Assistance (net) 7/   0.09    1.38    1.38             0.3      4.8     4.7
Central Government
____________________%     of     GDP
1977    1978    1979          1977    1978    1979
Current Receipts                7.65    8.23    9.16           28.7    28.6    31.1
Current Expenditures  4/        3.87    4.72    5.18           14.5    16.4    17.6
Current Surplus                 3.78    3.51    3.99           14.2    12.2    13.5
Capital Expenditures  5/        2.23    1.66    8.32 e 6/       8.4      5.8    28.3 e
External Assistance (net) 7/   0.09    1.38    1.38   8/        0.3      4.8     4.7
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                          Billion Sylis
Dec.   Dec.   Dec.   June
1976   1977   1978   1979
Money                                     8.22   8.34   6.88   7.45
Quasi-Money                               2.25   1.43   2.21   3.04
Overall Money Supply                     10.47   9.79   9.10  10.49
Bank Credit to Public Sector             14.89  16.29  18.81  20.18
Bank Credit to Private Sector             0.95   1.08   1.08   1.09
(Percentages)
1976   1977   1978   1979
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP         39.4   36.7   31.6   35.7  9/
General Price Index (1973= 100)  10/   115.8  119.9  122.4  125.2
Annual % changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector             4.7    9.4   15.5    7.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector          -11.6   14.0   -0.1    1.0



- 26 -
AmEX I
?as& 5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE' S REPlJBLIC OF GUINEA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
bALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Averase 1976-78)
(Preliminary Estimates)
1976        1977        1978                                                        USS Mln       %
(USS Million) 1lj
Bauxite                204.3        70.2
Expert  of Goods, NFS                      252,6        293.2       327.9                               Alumina                  77.5       26.6
Import  of Goods, NFS                     -287.3      -261.9      -350.1                                Other Commodities         9.4         3.2
Resource Gap (deficit . -)                 -34.7        31.3       -22.2
Total                  291.2       100.0
Interest Payments                          -46.a        -38,a       -43.8
Workers' Remittances                        -5.6        -5,6         -6.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -7.5       -28.8       -36.4                          EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1979
Net Transfers                                 7.9        15.7        32.8
Balance on Current Account                 -79.2       -26.3       -76,Q                                                                      US$ Mtn
Direct Foreign Investment                                                                               Public Debt, Including Undisb.    1,342.0
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                       Total Outstanding & Disbursed            990.4 8/
Disbursements, Public Borrowing           70.Q0       5Q.7       111.7
Amortization, Public Debt               -65,7        -97,8       -94,6                                             15I
Subtotal, Public Borrowing                 4.3       -47.1        17.0                         DEBT SERVICE RATIOS  FOR 1978                  %
Private Sector (net)                     -25.3      '49.1        -16.7                               Scheduled Service Payments
Total Borrowing                          -21.0       -66.2         a.3                                            public debt                35.7
Capital Grants                             121         1/          l                                             -  private debt of
Other Capital (net)                         -0Y.1        1.7        -3.8                                               mixed enterprises 16/ 14.6
Other Items (increase in arrears)           44.2        51.5        52.8                                         - total debt outstanding
Increase in Reserves                       -55.6       -17.7       -59.92                                                     and disbursed  50.3
Actual Service Payments
Gross Reserves (end year)                   53,2        50.5        29r2                                         -  public debt                20.5
Net Reserves (end year) 13/               -11Q.Q      -133.5      -205.6                                         -  private debt of
mixed enterprises 16/ 14.6
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                       -  total debt ounding
Imports 14/                             13,1         17.        26.Q                                              6 disbursed             35.1
of which:  Petroleum                  13.1         17.2        26,Q0
Exports                                 -            -           -                            IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1980) (Million US$)
IBRD    IDA
Outatandine and DiAhlraed              Ss. ,   2/s. 1
RATES OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      Undilburaed                             -      41.7
Through                                                        Outstanding including undisbursed  58.3   66.0
1970    1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978  1979
Sylis lS$                        24.7    24.6   22.7   20.7   20.5   20.3   21.4   21.1   19.7  19.1
1/  Preliminary estimates for all 1979 aggregates.
2/  1974-79.
3/  Local administration not included.
4/ Including debt service on external borrowing on behalf of public enterprises.
5/ Including investment on behalf of public enterprises, and capital transfers to these
enterprises as follows (Sylis million):  1977 - 1,404
1978 -    95
1979 - 6,200
6/  Budgeted investment Sylis 2,500 million and financial assistance to public enterprises Sylis 6,200 million.
7/ Disbursements less scheduled amortizations plus increase in arrears.
8/  Subject to revision by Government.
9/  June 30, 1979.
10/  GDP Implicit deflator.
11/  Converted from data in Sylis, using period geometric averages exchange
rates (IFS, February 1980).
12/  Tncluded in net official transfers (current account).
13/  Differences between change in net reserves during the period, and the increase
in net foreign reserves (see above) are due to the exchange rates used, i.e USS/SDR at
end of the period for the former, and geometric averages for the latter.
14/  Excluding imports bv mining companies.  Total imports of petroleum products are
estimated at 396,500 tons In 1978, and tentatively valued at about US$42 million.
15/  Service payments reported to exports of goods and services.
16/ CBG and FRI(CUIA.
17/  Annual geometric averages.
18/  Savings and exports adjusted for change in the terms of trade.



-27-
- 27 -              ~~~ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1980)
Amount (less Cancellations)
Credit Number  Year      Borrower        Purpose        Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
--    (US$ million)-----
Two loans and one Credit have been fully disbursed    73.5   14.0
569-GUI      1975      Republic of    Pineapple
Guinea         Development              7.0      0.3
596-GUI      1976      Republic of    Ftrst Highway           14.0      0.2
Guinea
849-GUI      1978      Republic of    First Education          8.0      5.0
Guinea
870-GUI      1978      People's Re-   First Water             12.5     10.6
volutionary    Supply and
Republic of    Sanitation
t,uinea
S-22-GUI     1978      People's Re-   Power Engineer-          1.1      0.1
volutionary    ing and Repair
Republic of    Project
Guinea
952-GUI      1980      People&s Re-   Rice                    10.4     10.0
volut torary    Development
Republic of
Guinea
953-GUI      1980      People's Re-   Second Highway          13.0     12.5
volutionary
Republic of
Guinea
TOTAL                                           73.5    66.0
of which has been repaid                      16.6     0.0
Total now outstanding including undisbursed   56.9    66.0
Total undisbursed                                0.0    38.5      38.5



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 569-GUI Pineapple Development Project: US$7.0 million Credit of July 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project consists of establishing an irrigated pineapple estate.
and of providing pineapple growers in its vicinity with supporting services.
The first phase of irrigation works was completed in 1978 with one year delay
because of contractor's poor performance. Nevertheless, 80 percent of plant-
ing and production targets were achieved through provisional irrigation
facilities, and production for the 1980 crop year is forecasted at 2,300
tons. The second phase works, which will double plantation size to 420 ha,
began in early 1979 and were completed in mid-1980. The smallholders program
has exceeded estimated yield forecasts. Government has agreed to finance
US$0.8 million in overruns on the project's foreign costs. Identification of
a follow-up project was recently carried out by the FAO Cooperative Programme
at Government's request.
Cr. 849-GUI First Education Project; US$8.0 million Credit of September 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at helping alleviate the country's shortage of
skilled workers by improving and expanding technical training programs, and
at strengthening the Government's educational planning and project imple-
mentation capacities. Implementation is proceeding on schedule. Construction
of all school buildings and staff housing is expected to be completed by
September 1980. Initial enrollment is planned for October 1980. Contracts
for equipment have been signed and delivery has been scheduled to coincide
with completion of construction. The Project Unit is fully staffed and
equipped and is functioning well. Administrative and accounting procedures
are being established and local staff are being trained for these functions.
Construction site supervision is adequate. The Government has agreed to
finance an estimated US$400,000 cost overrun for civil works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 870-GUI   First Water Supply and Sanitation Project;  US$12.5 million
Credit of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project's objectives are to fullfill the immediate water supply
and drainage needs of Conakry, provide satisfactory sanitation to most of
its population, and strengthen institutions operating in the sector. Tendering
and contracting were delayed by 10 months due to unsatisfactory preparation of
detailed designs, but the project unit now has the situation in hand and
bidding is under way. The action plan proposed under the project for manage-
ment improvements within the national water company (DEG) has gotten off to a
slow start, but the Government is now focusing greater attention on the need to
reduce inefficiencies and is more strongly supporting the measures proposed.
Cr. S-22-GUI Power Engineering and Repair Project; US$1.1 million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 6, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is intended to complete preparatory work on a large
rehabilitation program for the Conakry power system, part of which was
appraised in December 1979 as the Bank Group's First Power Project in Guinea.
Replacement equipment has been ordered, and the Grandes Chutes Dam feasibility
study is completed.
Cr. 952-GUI   Rice Development Project; US$10.4 million Credit of November 2,
1979; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project consists of creating a specialized planning and
coordination unit for rice development within the Ministry of Agriculture,
upgrading the country's rice research capacity, undertaking a study of
agricultural prices and rural incentives, and carrying out a pilot project
to test and develop technical improvements to rice cultivation practices.
Satisfactory contracts were recently signed for the technical assistance
team and the pricing study experts, tendering is underway for agricultural
equipment, and field work is expected to commence in early 1981. Initial
project progress is satisfactory, although delays are anticipated in con-
struction of project buildings.
Cr. 953-GUI   Second Highway Project; US$13 million Credit of November 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is progressing smoothly. It will complete the program
begun under the First Project, upgrade an additional 1,500 kms of priority
roads, provide further institutional support to the Ministry of Public Works,
and help renovate the National Soils Laboratory. Most contracts have been
signed with suppliers, and maintenance brigades should be in full operation
towards end-1980.



- 30 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Sector analysis and Project
Identification Report: August 1977,
(Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries
assisted by consultants financed under
the IDA Credit for the Daboya Pineapple
Project.
(b) Preparation Report: July 1978
(c) Project Preparation Agency: RMWA and Ministry of Livestock and
Fisheries
(d) Appraisal: October/November 1979
(e) PPF Advance: March 1980
(f) Negotiations: July 1980
(g) Planned Effectiveness: December 1980
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(a) by December 31, 1981, measures will be initiated aimed at limiting
admissions into educational institutions and reducing overstaffing
in the sector (para. 34);
(b) by December 31, 1981, measures will be undertaken aimed at removing
the marketing and pricing constraints to livestock sector develop-
ment, and at offering adequate production incentives to herdsmen
(para. 37);
(c) by December 31, 1981, measures to phase out the vaccination
tax will be taken (para. 38);
(d) agreed arrangements regarding the pilot credit scheme will
form the basis of a model contract for use between participants,
BNDA and DGE; the model contract will be submitted to IDA for
comment and approval by no later than December 31, 1981
(para. 49); and



- 31 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)  funds received from herders will be allocated towards the re-
purchasing of veterinary products and mineral licks, and these
funds will be converted to foreign exchange at the official rates;
to avoid a shortage of funds, charges for veterinary products will
be discussed annually with IDA and any adjustments will first be
discussed and agreed between Government and the Association;
Government will provide any extra funds required to finance
necessary purchases (para. 60);
Special Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) the Directors of the DGE and BDE shall be in post, and shall have
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
(para. 51);
(b) a satisfactory contract for the project's technical assistance
positions shall have been entered into (para. 53); and
(c) a foreign exchange revolving fund account in the BGCE shall have
been opened (para. 58).






IBRD 14977
M A_ , R  IT AN tA  -                                                                                                                                                                                  t:. t-C  '"--
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI _e . , t Ls W4 t                                                                    -<ier    |(    2r                      F,el    t      fg- i  oi    ti - t
_J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- 7                                                                                               U
S NEC-AsL          MAC                                                                             -                                                                              j,- >     ;_  E: n   _,r)  0rmA1i . -''*e  ;i ; 
GUINEAf ;r9   --&;<\\ n0%',tt'b  t  0   ;
2 2g DE e t\s  .L'  . '1 'jb'''X'00  21 t\'%\9t9o 8tJ     
9 ' .0U. 2 J: F ; A ' i tla. S ; ; ; , _<,   29   5;   7   *   j                                        /  ,                      ro- ,,
e 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~                            0      6
stc, loMangProve Swampios                                                                                                       LJW  00 4tiv *5q A<j   
* eio  LighstFockSrvieCners (DE $ D ;0Ei                                    :t w: ith Swmp  Area                 ii  ic 0;t fr' i  5 =tie>esi   edettk                               CyNg-    ,    ,,
y FOREST   Noturol Region5           4    )  =i   +    r99erjsodttt;ptt f :t       ; n   r d     t odg ii  on n, eoi erotno-'.RE   IC .;: n                                               - 
-. _                                                              oc   ho 7dni;io
*GUeINEAin RreDvlpetPoet.i........... 7_-~- is.:&VAfr  u7J  Lt i   ........... i$;;4;\ ;?s>)^>a;5S
ForestR gon < -r+len - Zes 0 t :> 0 ~~~~~~To..  r-0 0!.  
S Mongrov~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eadwrnpd; t&>i; ;W6                                                                                              F,I mr;  -ef  0:d0qU
< d x brh e-   : .  : n i',0 &: 'i=  -i.'',; sot  mt iXi.u s$'!  i: J Di t= o;i -6:aff  --  f 



