Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2959a-GUI
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
August 19, 1980
This documient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Syli
US$1.00        =  19 Syli
Syli 1.00      =  US$0.0526
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BGCE    -    Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
BMP     -    Brigade Mechanisee de Production
BNDA    -    Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole
BDE     -    Bureau d'Etudes
(Research and Planning Office)
CBPP    -    Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
CGR     -    Commissariats Generaux de la Revolution
COTRA   -    Compagnie de Transports
DGE     -    Direction Generale d'Elevage
(General Directorate of Livestock)
DREP    -    Direction Regional de l'Elevage et de la Peche
(Regional Livestock Services)
ENCOBE  -    Entreprise de Commercialisation du Betail
(A regional authority for the collection of animals)
FAPA    -    Ferme Agro Pastorale d'Arrondissement
IRBANC  -    Institut de Recherches et de Biologie Appliquee -
Nenenkhaly Condetto
(Central Vaccine Production and Diagnostic Laboratory)
MCE     -    Ministere de Controle d'Etat
MEP     -    Ministere de l'Elevage et de la Peche
(Ministry of Livestpock and Fisheries)
,OBETAIL -    Office de Commercialisation du Betail
(The Government supply enterprise for meat to Conakry)
ONAH    -    National Fuels Office
PRL     -    Pouvoir Revolutionnaire Local
RMWA    -    Regiornal Mission (World Bank) West Africa
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND
A. Introduction ...............                           -              1
B. Trhe Economy  1.. 
C. The Agricultural Sector    ..                                         2
D.  The Livestock Sub-Sector:  Livestock Numbers and
Distribution ..* ....................   3
: Breed ...............................   4
: Management Systems .................  .   4
: Herd Composition and Productivity ...   5
: Animal Health ....... ............... .   5
i Institutional Structure ...........       6
D The Livestock Service ...........         6
: Livestock Education and Recruitment       7
Sector Financing and Taxation .......   8
: Sector Strategy and Investiment
Programs .......... .................   9
II.  THE ]?ROJECT AREA ......................................  10
III.  THE P?ROJECT ......................................  12
A.  Objectives and Summary Description ............. ................  12
B.  Detailed Features:  Strengthening of Regional Livestock
Services   ..................................    13
: Vaccination Program ...........      ............. 15
: Vaccination Production and Disease
Diagnosis   ............. ..  ..................    17
Staff Training . ....... ...... ...  .......... .  17
*                                     : Institution Strengthening ........ ..........  19
Pilot Credit Program .......... .. ...........  20
Other Activities ............     ...............  21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission wTLich visited
Guinea in October/November 1979, comprising Messrs. K. Oblitas, R. Crown
and N. Nissen supported by Ms. P. Brennan (Programs Department) and
Mr. P. Blanc (advice on veterinary specialities).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Iu contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  ...........   ................. ... . ...... . ...                            23
Organizational  Structure  ......... ................... .. .. .. ...  .                                   23
Staffing  .......................................................                                          23
Technical  Assistance  ....... ................................ .....                                      24
Implementation .............. ....  25
Preparation  of  a  Possible  Follow-up  Project  .....................                                    25
Data  Collation  and  Analysis  .                     ....................................                 25
Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles ......................    .                                          26
Project  Buildings  ............................... .. ....                                                26
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ............ 26
Project  Costs  .           .................................................                            26
Proposed  Financing                  .............................................                       27
Project  Preparation  Facility                          ...................................              29
Procurement           ....................................................                               29
Disbursements  ..................................................                                        30
Financing  Procedures  and  Revolving  Funds  .......................                                    31
Reporting  Requirements,  Accounts  and  Auditing  ................                               ..      31
Charges  for  Veterinary  Services  .......                        .........................             32
Financial  Implications  for  Government  ..........................                                     33
VI.   MARKETING,  PRICES,  PRODUCTION  AND  INCOMES  ......................                                      34
A.   Marketing  and  Pricing  Policies  ......                        ........................            34
B.    Economic  Values  of  Meat and  Milk                        ...........................             36
C.    Production            .................................................                            37
D.   Herdsmen  Incomes and  Incentives  ......                          .....................             38
E.    Credit  Program  Incentives                 .....................             .............         40
F.    Revenues  from  Export  of  Breeding  Stock  .....................                                 40
VII.    BENEFITS,  ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS AND  RISKS  .....                            .....................           41
A.    Project  Benefits                  ...........................................                     41
B.   Economic  Analysis  .....                 .......................... ...........                    42
C.    Risks  ......................................................                                       43
VIII.    AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATION  .......                           ...........................               44
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table No.
1.    Project  Cost  Estimates                 ......................... .................                      28
2.    Financing  Plan            .................................................                              29
3.    Effect  on  Herdsmen  Incomes  ......                      ...............................                38
4.    Summary  of  Economic  Analysis                        ...................................                43



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1
1.  Project Costs by Year ......         .........................    47
2.  Disbursement Schedule  o          .............................    48
3.  Herd Development and Production ...................       ..    49
4. Projections of Costs for Financial
and Economic Analysis .............................    50
5.  Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits ...........       ...    51
6.  Government Cash Flow ......         ..........................    52
7.  Beneficiaries Cash Flow ........................    53
8.  Pilot Credit Program Cash Flow ...................       ...    54
ANNEX 2
Contents of Project File  .......................       .......    55
Figures 1:  Project Organizational Structure ....         .........    56
Figure 2:  Project Implementation Schedule ....          ..........    57
MAP
IBRD 14977   GUINEA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT






GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Guinea has requested IDA assistance in financing
a livestock development project that would increase the productivity of
the national cattle herd. Sector analysis and project identification
were conducted in 1977 by consultants financed through a study component
included under IDA's first credit to Guinea's rural sector, the Daboya
Pineapple Project (Credit 569-GUI, FY75). Project preparation was undertaken
by RMWA irk 1978 and 1979. Appraisal took place in October/November 1979.
B. The Economy
1.02      Guinea has an area of 246,000 km2 and a population of about 5.3
million growing at 2.9% per annum. The country's varied and fertile natural
conditions (paras 2.01 to 2.07) provide potential for a diversified agricul-
ture and animal husbandry, while its substantial water resources are suitable
for irrigated agriculture and hydroelectric power. Mineral deposits include
bauxite, of which the country is estimated to possess the largest reserve in
the world, and considerable quantities of high-grade iron ore.
1.03      Economic performance during the 1960's and early 1970's was
disappointing. After independence (1958), the Government placed emphasis
on reorganizing economic and social activities towards a socialist economy
with trade, banking and manufacturing handled almost exclusively by state
enterprises. Inadequate planning, managerial inexperience and shortages
of skilled manpower limited productivity, and public enterprises absorbed
increasing amounts of Government resources to the detriment of agricultural
investment which received negligible funding. The capital costs and recurrent
deficits; of public investment soon exceeded budgetary savings resulting in
heavy foreign borrowing, increasingly unmanageable debt obligations, and
expansion of the money supply. Galloping inflation, overvaluation of the
local currency, sharp curtailments on imports of raw materials and consumer
goods, and development of an active parallel market with prices substantially
higher than official levels resulted. The economy thus stagnated in a
vicious circle of foreign exchange shortages, poor incentives, and declining
investments, output and exports.
1.04      From 1974, after the start of two large bauxite mines, the eco-
nomy picked up and per capita GDP has since grown at an average of 3.2% per
annum in real terms to reach US$290 in 1979. Recent Government measures have
further contributed towards reducing monetary imbalances and stimulating
productivity. Future economic prospects are good although, in the medium
term, meeting foreign debt obligations will remain a critical problem. Per



- 2 -
capita GDP is expected to grow steadily led on by a projected rapid growth in
mining exports. Government intends to use its increasing financial resources
to develop the rural sector and rehabilitate the manufacturing industry and
public utilities.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.05      The agricultural sector provides a livelihood for about 80% of
Guinea's population and contributes about 40% of GDP. Rice is the staple
food occupying about half the cultivated area. Other important food crops
are maize, fonio (Dijiteria), plantain, root crops (primarily cassava),
groundnuts, coconut and fruits (mangoes, citrus, pineapple). Nearly one
third of Guinea-s rural families own cattle (para 1.12).
1.06      Despite the potential offered by Guinea's diverse and fertile
natural resources, agricultural performance, in line with performance
elsewhere in the economy (para 1.03), has been disappointing during the
past two decades. In 1958, Guinea was the largest exporter of bananas
in West Africa (about 100,000 t annually) and was also an exporter of other
agricultural commodities, primarily pineapple, coffee and palm kernels.
Subsequently, officially traded agricultural exports declined to negligible
quantities: from US$22 million in 1960 to US$11 million in 1970 and virtually
zero by the late 1970s. Meanwhile, food imports (primarily rice, also wheat
flour and sugar) increased from US$6 million in 1957 to about US$18 million
annually in the early 1970s and amounted to US$27 million in 1978.
1.07      Principal factors instrumental in Guinea's disappointing rural
sector performance are: (i) lack of appropriately trained manpower at all
levels and of institutions capable of designing and effecting appropriate
rural development policies; (ii) a distorted pricing system (paras 1.09
and 6.01 to 6.07) providing farmers with minimal incentives to produce for
the market and, in particular, to sell to Government; (iii) low past invest-
ment levels in the sector; and, (iv) the virtual absence at the farm level
of crucial inputs such as improved seed, fertilizers, and medicaments and
vaccines for domestic animals, particularly cattle. As a result, crop
yields and livestock productivity are generally low and farmers usually
produce only for family subsistence or sales on the parallel market.
1.08      Government now places very high priority on development of its
rural sector and, from the mid 1970's, stepped up investment levels consider-
ably. To date, the primary focus of Government's investment program has
been on mechanized collective agriculture. This began as an attempt to
establish over 2,000 small village cooperatives known as "Brigades Me-
chanisees de Production (BMPs)," each equipped with a tractor, a plough and a
disc harrow supplied through an interest free loan. Inexperience with such
machinery, lack of spare parts, the absence of accompanying inputs such as
improved seed and fertilizer, and inadequate incentives for participants due
to low yields, and, in particular the low official prices offered for output
produced by the cooperatives, produced disappointing results. As a result,
most of the BMPs are no longer functioning. In 1979 a new approachi was
embarked upon which would involve the eventual provision to most of Guinea's



- 3 -
320 Arrondissements (para 1.21) of a more sophisticated set of equipment and
inputs and the organization of an arrondissement farm (Ferme Agro Pastorale
d'Arrondissement, FAPA) to be operated principally by surplus graduates from
Guinea-s agricultural education system (para 1.27). This revised strategy
also contains some disquieting potential pitfalls, although it would be
premature to prejudge the outcome of the FAPAs at this stage. Nevertheless,
in spite of Government-s initial orientation towards mechanized collective
agriculture, Government is becoming increasingly receptive towaLrds possibili-
ties for the development of smallholder farming through basic agronomic
improvements such as use of fertilizer, improved seed and upgraded crop
husbandry practices. This type of approach is being aided in the context of
the Rice Development Project (Credit 952-GUI, FY80) which also provides for
institutio,nal strengthening of the ministry involved and an agricultural
pricing study to assist Government in assessing means to augment rural
incentives and productivity.
1.09      The study on agricultural prices and rural incentives involves
a two man team of specialist agricultural economists with previous W. African
experience in such work, supported by additional specialist inputs as required
in macro-economics and marketing. Work began in April 1980, an interim report
is expected in early 1981 and a final report by early 1982.  The consultants
will work in liaison with a committee consisting of senior representatives
from key ministries connected with the economy, finance, planning and rural
development. In view of the importance of the study for the future develop-
ment of Guinea's rural sector, it was agreed during negotiations for the Rice
Development Project that IDA staff should provide specialist assistance to the
committee and that Government would regularly discuss with IDA the interim
findings and progress of the study and would hold further discussions upon
completion of the study. The study will provide Government with a technical
basis upon which to evaluate its rural pricing and marketing systems and to
instigate changes where it deems appropriate. Such an assessment is much
needed in order to adjust for the very low producer incentives that have to
date been characteristic of Guinea's rural sector. While official prices
offered to producers by Government may compare well with prices in neighboring
countries when measured at the official exchange rate, the actual purchasing
power of the syli in relation to the goods that it can buy is substantially
less than that implied by this rate which is estimated to be overvalued by
about two times. The pricing and marketing situation as it specifically
affects the livestock sector is discussed in detail in paras 6.01 to 6.08.
D. The Livestock Sub-Sector
1.10      Livestock Numbers and Distribution.  Livestock and in particular
cattle are an important element of Guinea's rural economy. Livestock
resources comprise about 1,250,000 cattle, 250,000 sheep, 300,000 goats,
60,000 pigs and five million chickens. Of the total cattle population,
about 45% is kept in Middle Guinea, 27% in Upper Guinea, 18% in Maritime



- 4 -
Guinea and about 10% in the Forest Region (see map). The regional distribu-
tion of sheep and goats is similar to that of cattle. Pigs, on the other
hand, are concentrated mainly in the Forest Region. Poultry are reared
throughout the country.
1.11      Breed.  The cattle population consists almost entirely of the
N'Dama breed, the only significant exceptions being along the border with
Mali where some crossbreeds between N'Dama and Zebu are found. The N'Dama
is a small humpless breed with relatively high fertility and moderate milk
production, and with a high overall productivity even under ecological
hardship. The N'Dama's most outstanding characteristic is its relative
trypanosomiasis tolerance. Trypanosomiasis, a disease transmitted by the
tsetse fly, can be found in most humid parts of Africa which represent about
one-third of the continent. The N'Dama breed, which is thought to originate
from Guinea's upland plateau, the Fouta Djalon, has therefore become much
sought after by countries that wish to introduce N'Damas so as to utilize the
untapped forrage resources in humid tropical regions. However, while the
demand for the breed is high, the supply of heifers is extremely short re-
sulting in high prices for N'Dama breeding stock. As rising costs and environ-
mental considerations increasingly question the traditional chemical tsetse
fly eradication, demand for N'Damas is expected to increase further, providing
an attractive market outlook for Guinean live cattle, a potential that would
be explored and developed under the project (para 3.25).
1.12      Management Systems.  The ownership of cattle is well distributed
involving an estimated 160,000 families or 30% of Guinea's rural population,
and with herd sizes which are typically (for over 80% of owners) less than
ten animals. Thus, while a few cattle owning families with larger herds
tend to have higher than average incomes, for most cattle owners' family
incomes are about the average or slightly above the average for the rural
sector. The small size of the typical herd means that practically all cattle
owning families also grow crops which are usually their primary source of
income. Herdsmen are generally sedentary; animals are grazed in the bush or
on crop residues during the day and are tethered near the homestead at night.
Some transhumance is practiced in the western part of the Fouta Djalon where
forage resources are limited during the dry season (para 2.03). Cattle are
reared for milk, meat and draft purposes with the importance of each function
being partly dependent on locality. Thus, in the Fouta Djalon, milk is a
particularly important product as is meat, but usage of work oxen is less
prevalent. In Upper Guinea keeping cattle for draft purposes may be the
primary motive. Throughout the country, livestock rearing is a means
of storing capital for use in emergencies or for gifts at weddings and other
occasions. Cattle are, therefore, highly prized possessions and, within the
constraints posed by the general lack of adequate veterinary and animal
husbandry support services, are generally carefully tended by their owners.
1.13      Guinea is one of the few countries in West Africa where animal
husbandry has been substantially integrated into the agricultural production
system. Such integration includes the usage of cattle for draft purposes
and for manure, while cultivation provides crop residues and by- products
as feed. These interchanges, which although limited could be further developed
in the future, are beneficial to both systems.



1.14      Herd Composition and Productivity.  Herd composition for a 10 animal
herd would typically be as follows:  4 cows, 2 calves, 2 heifers and 2 males
(steers, bulls or oxen). Productivity is low. Calving for heifers does not
generally occur until four years of age and the subsequent calving rate is
only 54% with a calf mortality of 34% resulting in a weaning rate of less
than 40%. The mortality rate among young stock aged 1 to 2 years is about
10% and the mortality rate among reproducing cows is about 5%. As a result
of internal parasites, the lack of mineral supplements and generally poor
disease control services, the population of the country-s herd is estimated
to be abotut static and annual liveweight gains for young stock aged 1 to 3
years usually do not exceed 40 kg per animal with herd offtake estimated at
about 11%.
1.15      Animal Health.  The poor status of animal health is the main
constraint to productivity and herd growth. Major disease hazards are
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), anthrax, blackleg, pasteurellosis
and rinderpest, while internal and external parasites can result in serious
debilitation and trypanosomiasis is a particular threat to already weakened
animals. Furthermore, an inadequate mineral content in the diet reduces
absorption of nutrients during digestion, and overmilking of cows reduces calf
growth rates and increases calf mortality.
1.16      CBPP was endemic in Guinea until very recently causing an estimated
4,000 deaths annually, mainly in the eastern half of the country (Upper
Guinea and Forest Region). Further spread of the disease to M4iddle Guinea
and Maritime Guinea was prevented by control of animal movements. Since 1975,
when an UrNDP/FAO assisted vaccination program in the eastern half of the
country started (para 1.31), no further outbreaks have been reported from
Upper Guinea and the Forest Region. A few cases of CBPP have, however, been
reported recently in the western half of the country along the northern and
southern borders.
1.17      Anthrax, blackleg and pasteurellosis occur throughout Guinea al-
though their incidence is lower in the Forest Region. The UNDP/FAO assisted
vaccination campaign, reduced mortality as a result of these diseases to less
than 1,000 head (recorded) during 1978, mostly in the western half of the
country. Based on available records, mortality in previous years is thought
to have been several times higher than that. Rinderpest outbreaks have not
been reported in Guinea since the end of the UNDP/EEC sponsored "PC 15"
campaign in the 1960s. The possibility of renewed outbreaks must, however, be
continually guarded against.
1.18      Internal and external parasites, probably cause the most serious
overall economic losses to the livestock sector. The high calf mortality and
heavy losses of young stock are primarily caused by these parasites. Sub-
sequently, such parasites cause low liveweight gains, reduced fertility, low
milk production and reduced draft animal efficiency.
1.19      Trypanosomiasis infested tsetse flies are found alL over Guinea.
However, the disease itself is only a problem for weak animals for which
the inherited trypanosomiasis tolerance of the N-Dama becomes insufficient.
As a result, liveweight gains and milk production are reduced and draft
oxen become weak and unable to perform satisfactorily.



- 6 -
1.20      Institutional Structure.  Responsibility for development of Guinea's
livestock sector lies with the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries ("Ministere
de l'Elevage et de la Peche-MEP"), which was created as a separate Ministry
in 1979. The Ministry supervises the Livestock Service (para 1.22) which is
the implementing agency for field activities connected with livestock produc-
tion. The Fisheries Service, the state meat marketing agency OBETAIL (para
6.01), and the livestock disease diagnosis and vaccine production laboratory
(para 3.13) also come under the Ministry-s supervision. Responsibility for
training of veterinary and livestock production personnel (paras 1.24 to 1.27)
is shared with the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.
Responsibility for sectoral analysis, planning and evaluation of investment
proposals in the livestock sector has up till now been handled by a research
and planning office within the Minister of Livestock and Fisheries' cabinet.
Under the proposed project the functions of this office as they specifically
relate to the livestock sector would be largely taken over by a new unit to be
created within the General Directorate of Livestock (paras. 4.01 and 4.02).
1.21      The Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries (MEP), as do other minis-
tries, operates within a territorial country administration. Guinea is
divided into 33 Administrative Regions grouped under seven "Commissariats".
Each Administrative Region is subdivided into "Arrondissements" of which there
are about 320 in the country. The Arrondissements are, in turn, subdivided
into "Pouvoirs Revolutionnaires Locaux" (PRLs) which typically consist of a
village or several small villages containing about 200 families. The local
administrations hold general mandates of local Government while the central
ministries hold specific responsibilities for their technical specialty.
Thus, the MEP's regionally based livestock service (para 1.22) comes under
the general political and administrative umbrella of each regional Governor,
but for technical matters and specific supervision is under the Minister of
Livestock. Providing the local administrations are awa-re of the development
strategy of the central ministries, the system works quite well and the
regional administrations can provide a strong local base for supporting field
activities of regional staff under the central ministries. However, while
the active cooperation of the regional authorities would be an important
positive influence upon the success of the project, there is also a possible
danger of inappropriate intervention by the local administrations. This was
drawn to Government's attention during negotiations and procedures to minimize
this possibility were reviewed.
1.22      The Livestock Service.  Implementation of field activities under
the MEP is the responsibility of the General Directorate of Livestock ("Direc-
tion General d'Elevage, DGE") which is headed by a Director who controls a
territorially based Livestock Service from a headquarters building and staff
based in Conakry. The DGE's function is to continually survey the state of
animal health, diagnose diseases and give medicines and treatment when these
occur, provide advice on animal husbandry and give vaccinations. The service
also undertakes an annual census of livestock. A Regional Directorate of
Livestock and Fisheries ("Direction Regional de 1'Elevage et de la Peche, DREP")
headed by a regional director is found in each of Guinea-s 33 Administrative
Regions. Under each DREP, field services are organized by arrondissement which



typically cover about 20,000 ha and include a number of villages containing in
total about 1,500 families. Staffing in a DREP would usually consist of the
Director, one or two "controllers" (middle level staff) and a "monitor"
(junior level staff) at the DREP headquarters and, for each of t'he region's
arrondissemerts (usually about 10), a controller and one or two monitors.
1.23      Infrastructure and equipment for the livestock services are very
inadequate at present. The DGE is based in a delapidated house in a residen-
tial area of Conakry 12 km from the Ministry, and is deficient in transport
facilities and most basic furnishings and equipment. Similarly, regional
headquarters for each DREP are in need of repair or in many cases, resiting
and rebuilding. Arrondissements generally do not have specifically constructed
offices; the equipment, materials and medicines being kept in thLe houses of
the field staff concerned. Particularly critical is the shortage of equip-
ment and materials for diagnosis and treatment at both DREP headquarters and
in the arrondissements. Drugs, medicaments and mineral salts are virtually
unobtainable. Furthermore, lack of transportation hampers mobiliLty of field
services which are generally limited to one or two bicycles and a motorcycle
per DREP (including the arrondissements), while the distance between a DREP
headquarters and an arrondissement center frequently exceeds 30 km.
1.24      Livestock Education and Recruitment.  Guinea has two intermediate
level livestock training colleges -- Mamou and Famoyla -- and tlhree higher
level faculties at Foulayah, Kankan and Faranah. Some senior staff have
also studied abroad, although the content of such studies has frequently
been insufficiently adapted towards tropical livestock needs. Guinea's
intermediate livestock colleges provide two year courses after which about
half go on to three year courses at the higher level faculties and eventually
become senior level staff. The rest enter the service immediately as con-
trollers or assistants. Cadres with secondary school education can also be
employed directly into the service as monitors and are expected to gain
experience while on the job.
1.25      The quality of livestock education is, however, inadequate.
All of these institutions lack even the most basic library, laboratory and
practical training facilities and most of the teaching staff are recent
graduates from the same system. The subject matter of courses lacks practical
orientation and they frequently cover topics which are only marginally rele-
vant to Guinean livestock sector needs.
1.26      While significant improvements might be made to these institutions,
approprial:e rationalization of manpower needs and training targets would
have to be established first. The Livestock Service currently employs
about 600 middle and upper level staff (controller rank and above) and with
its currenit resources and level of training, is fully staffed at these
levels. However, current enrollment at Guinea's livestock colleges would lead
to an annual output of over 200 graduates at the middle rank assistant/con-
troller level by 1981 and an annual output of over 150 senior level staff by
1985. Since Government has up till now guaranteed jobs to all graduates from
its education system, staffing of the Livestock Service and Ministry could



- 8 -
double in three years and triple in five years, creating considerable redund-
ancy and frustrating the attempts proposed in this project to increase effi-
ciency. The implications for the Ministry budget would be equally negative.
The gross wage bill of the livestock service in 1976 was about sylis 11
million (US$ 0.6 million), by 1978 it had grown to sylis 33 million (US$ 1.7
million), and is estimated to be sylis 50 million (US$ 2.6 million) in 1980.
If the present rate of growth were maintained, the annual wage bill would
reach over sylis 160 million (US$ 8.4 million) per annum by 1985.
1.27      The problems described above -- inadequate alignment of manpower
requirements with educational objectives, and guaranteed employment of
graduates from the system -- is endemic to other sectors and has similar
consequences; over-crowding and inadequate training in many of the colleges,
redundancy in Government services, and a growing financial burden on the state
due to support of essentially unproductive cadres. These problems are recog-
nized by Government and have been dealt with in depth by a report of a UNESCO
educational survey mission which visited Guinea in February/March 1980 and
which concentrated on the rural sector. Further analytical assistance will
be provided under IDA's First Education Project (Credit 849-GUI, FY 78)
which provides for three consultant years to study educational problems and
priorities.
1.28      During negotiations the general problem as it affected the livestock
sector was discussed in detail and an assurance was obtained that by December
31, 1981 Government would take measures to initiate a system of manpower
planning, education and recruitment for staff of the livestock sector in
accordance with staff needs and budgetary constraints. It was agreed that the
Research and Planning Office ("Bureau d-Etudes," BDE) to be established under
the project in the General Directorate of Livestock would have overall res-
ponsibility for making recommendations on staff requirements and hence educa-
tional needs for the sector. An internationally recruited economist in the
BDE would be charged with co-ordinating these activities and technical liaison
with other ministries involved with education and finance. A first priority
would be the establishment of manpower requirements over the forthcoming ten
years based on criteria to be established in consultation with IDA. It was
also agreed that BDE recommendations would be continually adapted and dis-
cussed by Government with IDA in order to facilitate a rapid resolution of the
imbalances noted in para 1.26 above. No funding would be provided under the
proposed project for any improvements to livestock colleges that are training
new staff as this would be premature until a full strategy constraining staff
numbers is being implemented. However, the project does include a small
recycling training center for the upgrading through short intensive courses of
existing livestock service staff (para. 3.16).
1.29      Sector Financing and Taxation.  Funding of the livestock sector is
made primarily through a central Government account, the "Budget Nationale",
which finances an estimated 80% of sector expenses. This source is supple-
mented by the regional budgets which finance some low level staff positions
from the general budgets provided to them by Government. In 1977 these
two sources provided an estimated sylis 31 million (US$1.6 million) towards



sector related expenses of which over 80%--about sylis 27 million (US$
1.4 million)--went towards salaries leaving, for the entire sector, only
sylis 4 million (US$200,000), for the purchase of equipment, materials,
veterinary products and maintenance of buildings (fuel was financed sepa-
rately). Receipts from the sector stem primarily from the ",raccination
tax" which provided sylis 5.7 million (US$0.3 million) in 1977. Theoreti-
cally, otlher forms of taxation also exist (for instance, the slaughtering
tax) but collection against these has been largely suspended; total revenues
in 1977 amounting to only sylis 0.1 million (US$5,000). The vaccination tax
is a tax of 15 sylis (US$0.80) per adult animal which is supposed to be
collected from all animals that have been vaccinated. Revenues from the tax
go to the regional budgets but are not specifically earmarked to go back into
the sector. Collection is done by local officials based on a census conducted
by the local administration which is also the basis for estab:Lishing the
annual quota for cattle sales through the official marketing r,ystem (para.
6.01). While not formally linked to the annual census done by the livestock
service (para. 1.22), the two sets of census figures in any given region
are often very similar inducing suspicion by herdsmen of livestock service
staff. Currently, the magnitude of the funds collected from the tax (although
incomplete due to census evasion and incomplete collection), hardly justify
the efforts made to collect it, particularly as it risks jeopardizing the
relationship between the herdsmen and livestock service staff. Moreover, the
margins ithat would be made under the project through the sale to herdsmen at
cost plus of veterinary products and mineral licks (para 5.14), would be
substantially greater than the revenues collected through the tax. An
assurance was therefore obtained from Government during negotiations that the
vaccination tax would be phased out by December 31, 1981.
1.30      Sector Strategy and Investment Programs.  Government's primary
objective in the sector is to increase national meat producti.on, in particular
for urban consumers. In addition, Government recognizes the nutritional
value of the national cattle herd's milk production, the significance of
livestock rearing on the livelihoods of a substantial portion of Guinea's
population, and the current and potential benefits from animal traction.  The
potential to further these objectives is good since a large proportion of the
population are experienced in keeping cattle and other forms of livestock.
Furthermiore, the N'Dama breed is highly suited to prevailing environmental
and husbandry conditions, and in most areas there are sufficient pasture
resources. A major constraint, however, is the lack of adequate veteri-
nary andl animal husbandry support services.
1.31      Efforts to improve the animal health situation in Guinea have
to date concentrated on vaccination programs against the prevalent cattle
diseases in eastern Guinea (Upper Guinea and the Forest Region). These
measures have been introduced through two UNDP/FAO assisted projects: a
vaccination program using mobile teams based at Kankan in Upper Guinea
(Project GUI/78/012, para 3.08) and a project to upgrade thEl vaccine produc-
tion and disease diagnosis laboratory at Kindia (Project GUI/78/013, para 3.13).
Both projects are operating successfully. As UNDP funding in each case is
due to end in December 1981, the proposed project would, inter alia, continue
these two activities and also extend the vaccination prograra to the western
half of the country. Another priority requirement for the sector is for



- 10 -
facilities and materials with which to provide treatments against internal
and external parasites, a matter that would also be tackled under the
proposed project. Other programs in the sector include a pilot genetic
improvement exercise in the Boke area sponsored by UNDP (Project GUI/79/007),
and a proposal to establish a ranch at Beyla in the Forest Region. An
agreement concerning the ranch proposal has recently been signed between
Government and SOCFINCO-VAN LANKER, a group that has had previous ranching
experience in West Africa and which would operate the ranch as an autonomous
commercial venture.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      The proposed project would have a countrywide coverage although
the extent of its focus and hence of its impact would bear a relationship to
the number of cattle in each locality. The country can be divided into four
main natural regions (see map) with principal characteristics described in
paras 2.02 to 2.06 below.
2.02      Middle Guinea which includes the 600-1,500 m plateau known as
the Fouta Djalon is the most important livestock region. It encompasses about
20% of the country-s land area and just under a third of the country's popula-
tion but holds 45% of Guinea's cattle herd and 51% of all small stock. While
natural conditions are favorable for cattle raising (rainfall is between 1,600
and 2,200 mm, the dry season lasts for only six months and the climate is
cooler than in other parts of the country), the main factor responsible for
the concentration of livestock in the Fouta Djalon rests in the history of the
local people,, predominantly of Peuhl origin, who were formerly nomadic or semi
nomadic herders but who have now settled to become mixed farmers. Cattle are
reared primarily for milk and meat although draft oxen are sometimes used
where topography and soils are suitable.
2.03      Cattle density in the Fouta Djalon varies averaging 9 head/lOO
ha, a density twice as high as in Maritime Guinea and three times that in
Upper Guinea. Such a density is, however, still judged to be within the
global pasture resources available in the Fouta Djalon, although in certain of
the more densely populated administrative regions such as Labe and Pita,
feed shortages are encountered during the dry season necessitating transhumance
to the more plentiful resources of nearby Maritime Guinea. While Guinea's
fodder resources would be studied under the project (para 3.25), lack of
pasture is not considered to be a significant constraint to cattle productivity
in most parts of Middle Guinea. The major constraint there, as elsewhere
in Guinea, lies in poor animal health services, a matter that would be tackled
under the project.
2.04      Lower Guinea or Maritime Guinea is a predominately forested coastal
lowland plain with a hot, humid climate, a short dry season (5 months) and
a high rainfall ranging from 2,600 mm in Boke to 4,400 mm in Conakry. It
comprises 18% of Guinea-s land area and has a similar proportion of the
country's cattle population. The generally abundant pasture resources have
induced increasing permanent settlement of traditional cattle owning families
from the Fouta Djalon, a trend which is likely to stimulate substantial
future growth of Maritime Guinea's cattle population.



- 11 -
2.05      Upper Guinea  in the north-east comprises 40% of the country's land'
area and 27% of the cattle population. It consists predominately of undulating
tree savaninah traversed by a number of rivers bordered in many cases by fertile
plains. Rainfall varies between 1,200 and 1,700 mm and there is a six month
dry season   Cattle density averages only 3 head per 100 ha but on a per capita
basis is second only to the Fouta Djalon with nearly 1 head per 3 inhabitants.
Pasture resources are plentiful resulting in heavier animals than in the Fouta
Djalon. Cattle are kept primarily for draft purposes for which the soils and
topography are ideally suited. The rate of expansion of ox drawn cultiva-
tion is however limited by the relatively heavy investment cost of a pair of
oxen and implements. Nevertheless, families who only possess one draft animal
frequently pair with other families, and contracting the services of an ox
traction team is quite common. The evident interest in ownership and usage of
draft animals could be further stimulated by the provision of credit.
This would alleviate the current financial bottleneck inhibiting the further
expansion of ox traction in this high potential area.
2.06      The Forest Region in the southeast comprises about 22% of the
country' area and has an equatorial forest climate with a long (8 to 9
months) rainy season with precipitation ranging from 3,000 mm in the south to
1,700 mm in the northern transition zone with the tree savanniahs of Upper
Guinea. Cattle are of less significance in the Forest Region which contains
only 10% of the national herd and averages only 2.5 head per 100 ha and one
head per 10 inhabitants.  Cattle are concentrated nearer the transition zone
where they are kept mainly for draft purposes. Meat is supplied primarily
from sheep, goats, poultry and pigs. While cattle production is not a tradi-
tional activity for most of the people in this area, the main constraints to
increasing cattle production result from parasitic diseases characteristic of
the humid climate. The Forest Region's extensive borders with Sierra Leone,
Liberia and Ivory Coast also present a continual danger from outbreaks of
infectious diseases.
2.07      Communications  Guineas road transportation system consists of
about 14,000 km of classified primary, secondary, and feeder roads of which
about 1,000 km are paved. The principal artery roads are shown on the map.
The country's traditional east-west transport artery is the Conakry-Mamou-
Kankan road. This road, which would be particularly significant for the
project, is paved as far as Mamou and is thereafter of all weather gravel
standard. Parallel to the road is a railway which could also be used for the
transportation of bulk supplies such as mineral salts to staging posts along
the way. Other roads that would be of major importance for the project are
the paved Mamou-Labe road providing access to the Fouta Djalon, the paved
Mamou-Faranah-Gueckedou and Kankan-Gueckedou roads providing access through
Upper Guinea to the Forest Region, and the all weather gravel Conakry-Boke
road along the Maritime Region. A major highway rehabilitation (mostly to
all weather gravel) and maintenance program is currently underway through the
IDA assisted Second Highway Project (Credit 953-GUI, FY80) and would affect
most of the principal roads shown in the map. Access to most regional
centers would therefore not be a major problem under the project, although
travel along minor roads during certain periods in the wet season would not
always be possible. In order to facilitate bush travel, key field personnel
and the vaccination teams would be equipped with four-wheel-^drive vehicles.



- 12 -
Regular commercial air passenger services between 10 regional centers
and Conakry also provide a useful means of transportation that could be used
when necessary under the project for rapid access to critical areas by key
staff and for the air transportation to Conakry (subsequently by road to
Kindia) of samples for laboratory diagnosis. Communication by telephone
between most regional capitals and Conakry is also possible although the
service is heavily used and can be slow.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      Objectives.  The major objective of the project would be to increase
the productivity of the Guinean cattle herd thereby augmenting national meat
and milk production and improving nutrition, and also, raising the standard of
living of cattle herding families. This would be achieved through simple
measures: vaccinations against common cattle diseases; provision of drugs,
medicaments and mineral licks; and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and
veterinary support service. These measures would require institutional
strengthening and training of existing livestock service staff.
3.02      While not the primary focus of the project, the measures to be
undertaken would also benefit other forms of livestock . Additionally,
the General Directorate of Livestock's technical capacity to plan and imple-
ment future activities under its charge would be augmented. Finally, re-
sources would be provided under the project to investigate areas of high
potential or of concern relating to the sector. Such matters include the
increased usage of cattle for draft purposes, export possibilities for N'Dama
breeding stock, effective utilization of Guinea's grazing resources, livestock
marketing and pricing policy, and forward planning of recruitment and educa-
tion needs for the sector.
3.03      Summary Description.  The proposed project would be implemented over
four years and would include:
(a) Institutional strengthening through:
(i) upgrading (provision of a new headquarters building,
equipment and technical assistance) of the General
Directorate of Livestock - "Direction Generale de
l'Elevage, DGE" - so as to provide a central capacity
for the day-to-day implementation of the project; and
(ii)  establishment (provision of equipment and technical
assistance) within the DGE of a Research and Planning
Office - "Bureau d-Etudes, BDE" - to undertake sectoral
planning, special studies, preparation of a possible
follow-up project and monitoring of ongoing operations.



- 13 -
(b) Support for animal health and husbandry services through:
(i) upgrading of regional livestock services through reconstruction
or refurbishing of regional headquarter buildings, and provision
of basic equipment and materials;
(ii)  sales to herdsmen through the intermediary of the upgraded
regional services of drugs, medicaments and mineral licks;
(iii)  a national vaccination campaign against common cattle diseases
through mobile teams organised under two field headlquarters;
(iv) reinforcement of the central laboratory for vaccine production
and diagnosis of diseases; and
(v) a pilot credit program to encourage the spread of cattle owner-
ship and the usage of draft animals in a mixed farming system.
(c)  Staff training through:
(i) establishment of a 40-person capacity training center for
short-term intensive recycling courses for existing livestock
service staff at various levels; and
(ii)  provision of fellowships for short to medium duration overseas
training and visits for senior project staff.
Items (b)(iii) (vaccination campaign) and (b)(iv) (vaccine production and
diagnostic laboratory) would involve taking over from and expanding upon the
activities of two ongoing UNDP/FAO assisted projects (paras 3.08 and 3.13).
Technical assistance services (para. 4.04) for carrying out the project would
amount to six resident staff involving a total of 19 consultant years, plus
provision for the hiring of about 30 months of short term consualtant services
and also the services of an architect for design and supervision of project
constructions.
B. Detailed Features
Strengthening of Regional Livestock Services
3.04      Under the project the regional livestock services--"'Directions
Regionales d'Elevage et de la Peche, DREPs", (paras 1.22 and 1.23)--would be
provided with the resources necessary to conduct their work. Sixteen new
DREP headquarter buildings would be constructed and 11 existirng centers would
be renovated. The new buildings would be similar to existing ones consisting
of a treatment room and entrance foyer with two rooms on either side plus
storage space (in all about 70m2). They would be provided with running
water and have electricity and a telephone installed wherever such services



- 14 -
are available.   A full set of basic furnishings and equipment would be
provided to each new building, and supplementary furnishings and equipment
would be provided to existing centers. Equipment would include a combined
refrigerator/ freezer (kerosene operated if necessary), a mobile icebox, a
simple diagnostic set (including microscope and centrifuge), a steriliser and
the basic instrumentation for treatment of animals. At the arrondissement
level, (para 1.22) a simpler set of equipment (thermometer, syringes, castra-
tor, drencher, spray pump, plus basic materials, a notebook and a rucksack)
would be provided together with a lockable storage box to be kept in the field
staff's house.  Transportation for the DREP headquarters and the field
services would be provided in the form of an average of two motorcycles and
12 bicycles per DREP (the actual distribution between DREPs depending upon
the livestock population in each DREP and the distances involved).  Drugs,
medicaments and materials for the treatment of common livestock ailments, and
salt licks would also be provided (para 3.06).
3.05      The main role of the DREP headquarters would be to support field
activities at the arrondissement level. Each regional director would provide
administrative support and professional guidance to arrondissement staff and
would be responsible for the ordering, storage, distribution and accounting
of the veterinary supplies channelled through his field staff to farmers.
The improved diagnostic capability of the DREPs would cater to the increased
needs of the arrondissement services. All diagnostic problems that could not
be solved with a DREP's own staff and facilities would be forwarded to the
central laboratory at Kindia (para 3.13). Additionally, the treatment clinic
at each DREP would provide a slightly wider range of veterinary services than
those possible in the field. The DREPs would also provide support services
for the vaccination program (paras 3.08 to 3.12). DREP directors would be
answerable to the DGE in Conakry but would also maintain informal working
linkages with the two vaccination program field coordinators (para 3.11) and
with the disease diagnosis and vaccine production laboratory (para 3.13). The
extension efforts of the regional services would be supported by regular radio
broadcasts on the national radio system in the three main languages used
by livestock owners, Pular, Maninka and Susu. These broadcasts would aim at
familiarising herdsmen with livestock service activities and at providing
information about the benefits from using veterinary products, from receiving
vaccinations and from improved cattle husbandry. Several months of specialist
assistance in design of effective radio extension broadcasts and in other
"extension aids" techniques (e.g. posters, leaflets, etc.), would be provided
under the project's consultant budget.
3.06      At the arrondissement level, field staff would operate as general
livestock extension officers covering not only the treatment of sick animals
but also general husbandry practices, nutrition and genetic improvement
(para 3.25). To begin with, however, the main emphasis would be placed on the
development of a clearly defined veterinary service that could quickly gain
the confidence of livestock owners. The project's veterinary services would
be aimed at eliminating the most serious causes of economic losses to farmers
and would include, depending on prevailing circumstances, the selling of



- 15 -
treatments against ticks and other external parasites (manges) and of treat-
ments against internal parasites (most importantly, against blood and liver
flukes, coccidiosis and drenches) and diarrhea. These services would also
include treatment against wounds. The charges levied on veterinary treatments
and mineral licks (para 5.12) would provide for the recovery of associated
costs (para 5.14) while still entailing attractive incentives for herdsmen
(paras 6.11 to 6.14).
3.07      Individual livestock service staff would be responsible for maintain-
ing small stocks of materials, drugs and medicaments for such treatments and
also for keeping field records of treatments given, payments received and
stocks. DREP headquarters staff would be responsible for replenishing the
stocks of field staff and collecting payments which would be done on a weekly
basis. These monies, together with those received from the sale of mineral
salts, would be deposited in the regional bank for transfer to a central
account earmarked for veterinary products in the BNDA at Conakry (paras 5.07
and 5.12). Chemicals and materials for veterinary treatments would be
transported from Conakry to the DREP headquarters by means of three covered
3-ton trucks under the authority of the DGE-s supplies department.  To the
extent possible, these trucks would also handle delivery of mineral supple-
ments, although the expected quantities involved (5,000 t per annum by PY4),
would necessitate the bulk of these being transported through a contract with
Guinea-s truck transportation agency, COTRA, and project costJing has been
based on this assumption. Rail transportation to staging posts such as Mamou
and Kankan would also be used where possible. Due to their weight, mineral
licks would be sold only at the DREP headquarters where they could be picked
up by herdsmen and brought back to the village by bus, taxi or other means.
In view of the large quantity of materials, personnel and transactions
involved, and the logistical problems inherent in supplying such a country-
wide regional network, a carefully designed and controlled system of record
keeping, stock taking and accounting would be needed at all levels in the
above system. Procedures to handle this were discussed and agreed during
negotiations. The internationally recruited financial management specialist
(para 4.04) would be responsible for the administration, accounting and
internal monitoring of the above system.
VaccinatJion Program
3.08      Background.  The project's vaccination program would aim at provid-
ing countrywide prophylactic coverage against the major cattle health hazards
posed by diseases such as contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), rinderpest,
pasteureLlosis, anthrax and blackleg (paras 1.15 to 1.17). The UNDP/FAO
project (para 1.31), is currently covering the eastern part of the country
(Upper Guinea and the Forest Region) encompassing about one third of Guinea's
cattle population. Eastern Guinea was a particularly high priority in the
1970s due to its extensive borders with known disease foyers in Mali, Ivory
Coast, LLberia and Sierra Leone. As a result, a number of CBPP and other
cattle disease outbreaks occurred during the early 1970s but have been brought
under control by the vaccination program.  For instance, no CBPP outbreak in
eastern Guinea has been recorded since 1978. Upon completion, of the UNDP/FAO
project at the end of 1981, coverage of eastern Guinea would be continued



- 16 -
under the proposed project which would also establish a similar program to
cover the western half of the country (Middle and Maritime Guinea). Diseases
such as pasteurellosis, anthrax and blackleg have occurred throughout western
Guinea and outbreaks of CBPP near the borders with Sierra Leone and Senegal
were reported in 1978 and 1979. Expansion of the program to western Guinea is
therefore justified.
3.09      Strategy.  The overall strategy of the vaccination program would be
the same as that successfully used under the UNDP/FAO project with only minior
changes to reflect the lessons of experience. The program would consist of
two separately supervised motorised campaigns under the overall direction of
the DGE. The western campaign would get underway in PY1. The project would
take over the financing of the eastern campaign at the end of PY1 when the
UNDP/FAO project is due to end. Costing for the proposed project has only
allowed for estimated necessary replacements of worn out UNDP financed
vehicles and equipment as all functioning vehicles and equipment would
continue to be made available for usage under the project. An assurance to
this effect was obtained from Government during negotiations. It was also
agreed during negotiations that an inventory of UNDP financed vehicles and
equipment would be made during PY1 in collaboration with the UNDP Resident
Representative and IDA so as to make a final assessment of the new vehicles
and equipment that would be needed to continue the eastern campaign.
3.10      Field Headquarters.  As currently under the UNDP/FAO project, the
eastern campaign would be coordinated from a field headquarters at Kankan.
The new western campaign would have its field headquarters at Mamou which was
chosen as the best strategic location to respond quickly to any possible out-
break of a contagious disease in the endangered border zone to Sierra Leone.
Mamou also offers good road communications with the vaccine production labora-
tory at Kindia and with the center of the Fouta Djalon, and is a staging post
along the road to Kankan. Further, it serves as a telecommunications center
for the area enabling quick communication with the regional services (DREPs).
At Mamou, finance would be provided for the construction of a small building
and fenced yard to protect the vehicles. The building would have offices and
storage space to keep vaccines, supplies and spare parts and the vehicle yard
would include a repair pit. At Kankan, the existing building would be upgraded
and partly reequipped and a fenced vehicle yard and a repair pit would be added.
3.11      Field Work.  Each campaign would be headed by a Field Coordina-
tor who would have full field responsibility for the day-to-day operations of
his teams, the supply and storage of vaccines and, liaison with the diagnos-
tic and vaccine production laboratory at Kindia. The General Director of
Livestock would be responsible for overall coordination of the work programs
of the two Vaccination Campaigns with those of the vaccine production labora-
tory and the regional services (Annex II, Figure 2). There would be six
mobile teams for each campaign. Each team would consist of a veterinary
officer and a driver and would be equipped with a four-wheel-drive vehicle, a
mobile refrigerator, an icebox, veterinary equipment and materials, and
camping equipment. Vaccination visits to each area would be on a schedule
advertised ahead of time. As the team visited an area, it would be joined by
the resident livestock field staff who would assist in explaining the program



- 17 -
to farmers and in giving vaccines. Whenever possible, a vaccination team would
arrive in a village the day before vaccination begins so as to gain the
confidence of local leaders and cattle owners. The purpose of the upcoming
treatment would be explained and reassurances would be provided that the
campaign had no cattle tax implications (para 1.29) and would be conducted
free of charge (para 5.12).
3.12      Vaccination Coverage.  Annual vaccinations would always include
CBPP and rinderpest for animals less than 3 years old and, depending on the
area and prevailing circumstances, would also include vaccinations against
pasteurellosis, anthrax and blackleg. The total number of annual vaccina-
tions is expected to increase gradually over the four year project period.
The eastern campaign began with 118,000 vaccinations in 1975 and reached
322,000 in 1979 or 70% of the estimated 460,000 cattle in eastern Guinea
(Upper Guinea and the Forest Region). Assuming a similar 70% acceptance
rate for the western campaign, about 550,000 animals out of Middle and
Maritime Guinea's estimated 790,000 cattle population would be vaccinated by
PY4. This would mean, if the acceptance rate in the eastern campaign
increased still further, that close to a million animals or 80% of the
national cattle herd could be receiving annual vaccinations by PY4.
Vaccine Production and Disease Diagnosis
3.13     lBackground.  With UNDP/FAO assistance, the IRBANC ("L'Institut de
Recherches et de Biologie Appliquee - Nenenkhaly Condetto") laboratory near
Kindia has been upgraded to a modern facility capable of handling both the
vaccine production and disease diagnosis requirements of the proposed project.
During 1979, one million doses of vaccine--two thirds of which were for
cattle--were produced, and included all common animal vaccines used in Guinea
with the exception of CBPP and rinderpest vaccines which were imported.
Additionally, a diagnostic section of the laboratory was opened in 1979.
By December 1981, the end of the current UNDP/FAO project, the capacity of
the laboratory is expected to have been upgraded to produce vaccines for the
following diseases; CBPP, anthrax, blackleg, pasteurellosis, Newcastle
disease, fowl pox, fowl cholera, fowl typhus and rabies.
3.14      Project Activities.  The proposed project would finance continued
operation and expansion as appropriate of the IRBANC laboratory's activities.
This would essentially consist of funding necessary replacement equipment
and vehicles, an internationally recruited veterinary specialist, and the
costs of materials, chemicals and vaccine containers. Furthermore, suffi-
cient funds would be made available for production of new vaccines such as
rinderpest. As with the eastern vaccination campaign (para 3.09), an as-
surance was obtained during negotiations that all plant, vehicles and
equipment previously financed by UNDP would be made available for usage under
the proposed project. An inventory to be conducted in liaison with UNDP and
IDA during PY1 would determine the resources available.
Staff Training
3.15      The emphasis that would be put on staff training under the project
is necessary in order to upgrade the professional knowledge and practical
skills of all staff levels within the livestock sector (para 1.25) and also
to provide specific instruction as and when needed concerning project field



- 18 -
activities. Training would be undertaken primarily through the recycling
training center supplemented, for more senior staff, by training fellowships.
Additional training would be provided through on-the-job association with
the project's internationally recruited specialists (para 4.04).
3.16      Recycling Training.  The training center would be located at
Kindia on the same site as the IRBANC diagnostic and vaccine production
laboratory. It would thereby be readily accessible by road from all parts of
the country (para 2.07) and would be able to make use of the laboratory's
facilities for demonstrations. The center would have a capacity of up to 40
trainees and would consist of a dormitory and a demonstration block, each
built to simple and proven specifications. The demonstration block would
consist of two lecture/demonstration rooms and a simple laboratory. Equip-
ment would include slide and film projectors, a tape recorder, a copying
machine and three minibuses for transport to field demonstrations.
3.17      The training center would provide short, intensive courses
(generally one to three weeks) for existing Ministry or Livestock Service
Staff so as to upgrade their skills in areas specifically focused towards
project needs. Examples of such courses might include: a course in laboratory
diagnosis for DREP directors; another in the monitoring and accounting of
veterinary supplies for DREP directors and their adjoints; a course for the
field staff of one or more regions on field diagnosis and treatment of a
specific disease found in the area; and courses in basic animal husbandry
techniques, genetic improvement and so forth. Assuming an average course
duration of 1-1/2 weeks, the capacity at the training center would be
sufficient to provide training to all livestock service staff at least
once a year. Generally, trainee numbers at the center would be kept below
30 persons so as to provide for more direct contact between participants
and teaching staff. However, the 40 person capacity of the center would
allow for a larger number of staff for sessions such as seasonal briefings
of all the DREP directors and central supervisory staff. Responsibility for
the identification of staff training needs, the content of the training
program and forward planning would rest with the DGE in liaison with the
Ministry.
3.18      Detailed planning and implementation of the training program
would come under the responsibility of an internationally recruited training
specialist with experience in the livestock sector and who would be designated
as the training center's technical director. He would be supported by a
Guinean counterpart director and by a small group of teaching and demonstra-
tion staff. A second internationally recruited specialist with a background
in teaching and extension work in the livestock sector would also be based at
the training center and would contribute to the teaching program at the
center but would be oriented.primarily towards organizing and making follow-
up visits to DREP teams in their field localities. He would additionally
hold specific responsibility for overseeing the pilot credit program (para
3.24) and any field activities connected with export of N'Dama breeding stock
(para 3.25). The veterinary specialist at the laboratory would also do a



- 19 -
limited amount of teaching, and additional funds have been provided under the
project for the hire of supplementary consultancy services should they be
needed (para 4.05).
3.19      Fel'lowship Program  The project's fellowship program would be
designed to upgrade the skills of middle and upper level Guinean staff through
participation in training programs outside of Guinea. Funds have been provided
for about 15 medium term (one year) fellowships and 30 shorter term visits or
courses (typically one to three months), and would cover all offshore costs
(eg. travel expenses, accommodation, training fees, books and pocket money).
The medium term fellowships would generally cover formal training courses
offered by appropriate institutions or universities. Shorter periods abroad
could be used for more condensed courses or for visits to livestock research
centers or to relevant livestock development projects and programs in other
West AfricEn countries. While most fellowships would be oriented towards
animal husbandry and tropical veterinary medicine, other project needs--for
instance, accounting, management techniques, credit management, economics,
training techniques, monitoring and evaluation techniques and saector
planning--would also be provided for.
3.20     Akdministration of the fellowship program would be handled by the DGE
in liaison with the Ministry. Identification of training needs, selection of
candidates and forward planning would be handled by a small committee of
senior project staff which would report to the Minister.
3.21      Forward planning for the recycling training center and fellowship
program would be facilitated by the preparation by this committee of an
annual plan that would be presented to IDA for comment and approval at least
two months befQre the start of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.  At the same time, the necessary flexi-
bility for both the training center and fellowship programs would be retained
through appropriate modification during the course of project supervision.
Institution Strengthening
3.22      The General Directorate of Livestock ("Direction Generale d'Elevage",
DGE) would be strengthened so as to provide the capacity to: (a) plan and
supervise the project's field activities; and (b) undertake sectoral analysis
and plann:ing, special studies, monitoring of ongoing operations and the
preparation of a possible follow-up project. The General Director of Live-
stock and his staff would be directly responsible for implementing the pro-
ject's field activities. Within the DGE a Research and Planning Office
("Bureau d'Etudes," BDE) would be created with specific responsibility for
undertaking activities under category (b).  The project's organizational
structure is described in detail in paras. 4.01 to 4.03. Funding under the
project wDuld provide for a new DGE headquarters building consisting of
offices, about 200 m2 of storage space for equipment and veterinary pro-
ducts, a small clinic for treatment of local animals, and a fenced vehicle
yard. Furnishings, office equipment (including a photocopying and a stencil
machine), a small technical library of reference books and periodicals, and
vehicles would also be provided.  Staffing would be strengthened in specialist



- 20 -
areas through the employment of three internationally recruited staff: an
economist to assist the BDE in sectoral planning and evaluation and in
analysis of sectoral issues; a livestock specialist to function as technical
director within the DGE and who would hold line responsibilities for over-
seeing all of the project's field operations; and, a financial management
specialist to be the DGE's financial director and who would hold line res-
ponsibilities for project accounting, procurement and management and dis-
tribution of stores. Staffing at the IRBANC laboratory and the training
center (paras 3.14 and 3.18) would also be strengthened. Additionally, the
project's short-term consultant budget provides for the hiring of supplemen-
tary specialist services should they be needed. Full details concerning the
project's technical assistance arrangements are at paras 4.04 to 4.06.
Pilot Credit Program
3.23      The pilot credit program would be based at Kissidougou in the
transition zone between the Forest Region and Upper Guinea. An attempt would
be made in this area to alleviate the financial constraints currently inhibit-
ing poorer families from becoming livestock owners and users of draft oxen.
Usage of draft oxen by more established families is quite common there and
abundant forage is available permitting increased usage of draft animals, the
spread of cattle ownership, and an increase of cattle numbers in the area.
The program is anticipated to begin in PY2 with about 20 participants and to
involve about 100 families by PY4. A participating family would be expected
to purchase on credit one heifer and two males (one steer and one bull or
two bulls) plus draft equipment (plough, yoke and chains; all of which are
made locally). This combination would provide not only the draft animals and
equipment required for ox traction but also the nucleus of a future herd and
the additional short term benefit from milking after the female has calved.
However, some flexibility to this standard model would be allowed where a
participant wishes to reduce his debt service obligation by, for instance,
starting with only two animals plus the draft equipment. The maximum number
of animals permitted to be purchased under credit would be four.
3.24      The purchase of animals and of equipment would be financed through
a special credit fund to be opened for this purpose in the Banque Nationale
de Developpement Agricole (BNDA). The BNDA would act as the financing insti-
tution and the bearer of risks and would manage financial transactions and
keep accounts through its branch at Kissidougou. Technical supervision of
participants would be handled on BNDA's behalf by the DGE which would also
have primary responsibility, in liaison with the BNDA, for selection of
participants and approval of prices negotiated for cattle and work oxen
implements. Direct field supervision would come under a Guinean credit
program officer to be located at Kissidougou and equipped with a four-wheel-
drive vehicle. Overall guidance and additional support would be provided by
the internationally recruited extension and training specialist located at
the training center in Kindia (para 3.18) whose terms of reference would
specifically cover this function. Regular visits would be made to Kissidougou
by this specialist. Additionally, to assist in getting the program underway,
a credit specialist would be hired for one or two visits through the project's
short term consultant budget. The credit program officer would work closely
with local DREP staff in the choosing of appropriate participants who would be



- 21 -
selected on the basis of a reasonable investment plan and an assessment of
such criteria as their responsibility, health, and current farming practices.
Commitment to the scheme would also be promoted through the requirement that
the participant would have to raise one fifth of the total cost of the
animals and implements. For the three animal model this would be about sylis
8,000 (about US$420). Prior to purchase, the credit officer, in consultation
with the extension and training specialist, would need to verLfy the appro-
priateness of the prices negotiated. Credit reimbursement would involve one
year of grace followed by six years of annuitized repayments according to a
semi anntLal schedule. Payments would be made due after land cultivation time
when revenues can be earned from contracting out ox traction services (para
6.15) and again at harvest time. Accelerated amortization of debts would also
be permitted if desired by the participant at any stage during the repayment
period. Interest would be based on the standard BNDA rate for long term
credit which is currently eight percent. However, in order to provide a
margin for BNDA to cover defaults due to unforeseen circumstances, a 12%
mark-up would be applied to the credit amount prior to calculating the debt
schedule. This would have the effect of raising the interest rate by about
three percentage points. The above arrangements were discussed and agreed
during negotiations and would form the basis of a model contract for use
between participants, the DGE and the BNDA which would be prepared not later
than December 31, 1981 for comment and approval by IDA. An assurance to this
effect was obtained. Para 6.15 provides an assessment of participant benefits.
Other Activities
3.25      While the project would focus primarily on the activities described
in paras 3.01 to 3.24 above, attention would also be paid to other areas of
high potential or concern within the sector. Such matters would be discussed
and their priority agreed upon during the course of project supervision and
during review of the annual report (para 5.10), and provision of any necessary
supplementary consultant services would be funded under the project (para
4.05). These activities would include, inter alia, the following:
(a)  Export of N-Dama breeding stock.  In view of the heavy demand for
Guinean N'Dama stock (para 1.11), the DGE would be charged with
investigating ways of realizing this potential and, if possible,
organizing marketing arrangements. No financing of handling or
transportation costs would be provided under the project as these
would be more than offset by sales revenues which, moreover, would
be in foreign exchange. Implementation of such a scheme would,
however, require offering herdsmen an appropriate price equivalent
to parallel market prices (para 6.04). Additionally, DGE staff
would have to organize herding and corralling arrangements so as
to be substantially better than those currently emlployed by the
official meat marketing agency (para 6.02) where large weight losses
are incurred. The internationally recruited extension and training
specialist at the Kindia training center would be responsible for
coordinating field activities (para. 4.04). The project-s short
term consultant budget provides for a marketing expert to assist in
establishing purchase, handling and marketing procedures. Addi-



- 22 -
tionally, the project's budget for fellowship courses and fami-
liarization visits (para 3.19) would be used for travel by Guinean
staff in connection with making marketing arrangements with
interested countries. An indicative financial assessment of the
scheme is at para 6.16.
(b) Genetic Improvement. Through their normal veterinary and animal
husbandry activities, extension staff would encourage herdsmen to
employ a simple form of genetic selection. Cows and bulls of
good stock and performance would be retained while poorer quality
males would be castrated, and encouragement would be given to the
earlier marketing of such animals and of lower quality heifers and
cows. This form of selection is preferable to intensive schemes in
artificial surroundings which do not necessarily recognise the
hardiness criteria necessary for good performance under local
conditions.
(c) Forage Resource Management. The BDE in liaison with specialists in
the DGE would be responsible for further investigation of the
feed resources available throughout Guinea and their relationship
to livestock distibution, grazing patterns, possible erosion
problems and sources of supplementary feed. The resultant improved
understanding of the country's forage resources would aid Guinea in-
the planning of future investments in its livestock sector.
(d) Marketing and Pricing Policy. The analysis of paras 6.01 and 6.06
indicates the need for revision of the official livestock and meat
pricing policy and of the marketing system. In order to comply
with the agreements reached during negotiations and the assurance
provided at para. 6.06, the BDE's internationally recruited economist
would be charged with undertaking analysis and making recommendations
concerning these matters. A global overview of the situation would
be provided by the study on agricultural prices and rural incentives
financed under the Rice Development Project (para 1.09) which would
have preliminary results available by PY1 of the proposed project
and final results in PY2. The BDE economist would follow up on this
study with specific analysis and recommendations concerning the
livestock sector.   If appropriate, other specialists (e.g. marketing
specialists, meat processing engineers etc.) could also be hired
under the project as short term consultants to assist him.
(e) Livestock Service Staffing and Training. In view of the need for
careful planning of livestock service staff requirements and new
employment, (paras 1.24 to 1.27), and in accordance with the
analytical inputs required to comply with the assurance at para
1.28, these matters would be continually assessed by the BDE. The
internationally recruited economist would be charged with analyzing
and reporting upon anticipated staff needs and its implication
upon recruitment, educational planning and processing of cadres
through the formal livestock education system.



- 23 -
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Organizational Structure.  The project's organizational structure
is presentier in Annex II, Figure 1. All project activities would come under
the overall authority of the Minister of Livestock and Fisheries. Under the
Ministry, the General Directorate of Livestock ("Direction General d'Elevage -
DGE"), headed by a Guinean director, would be responsible for detailed imple-
mentation of the project's field activities which would be carried out by
four main operational departments responsible for: the regional livestock
services; the vaccination program; the IRBANC diagnostic and vaccine produc-
tion laboratory; and, the training center. Additionally, a department of
financial and administrative services would handle project finances and
accounting, procurement, and storage as well as distribution oi- supplies. For
the vaccination program, the two field coordinators based at Mamou and Kankan
would be responsible for the two western and eastern campaigns respectively
(para 3.11). Their strategic locations would also be useful in handling at
the field level any administration in connection with the regional services
that the DGE Headquarters may require. The pilot credit program would be
supervised by a credit officer based at Kissidougou. Each regional service
("Direction Regional d'Elevage et de la Peche, DREP") would be headed as at
present by a regional director (para. 1.22).
4.02      For activities connected with sectoral planning, special studies,
monitoring of ongoing operations, and analysis of future investment proposals
in the livestock sector, including the preparation of a possible follow-up
project, a Research and Planning Office ("Bureau d'Etudes, BDE") would be
established within the DGE. This unit would consist of a Guinean Director and
about six to eight Guinean professional staff - several livestock specialists,
one or two economists, a statistician and a management (cost) accountant -
supported by an internationally recruited economist. While situated within
the DGE, the BDE would have autonomous responsibility for its activities.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the BDE would: (i) be able to deter-
mine its own work program; (ii) have direct access to the Minister of Live-
stock and Fisheries; (iii) would, through the Minister have access to other
Government Departments and Ministries as well as external consulting and aid
agencies; (iv) be enabled to submit reports directly to the Minister; and (v)
have direct access to all data and staff, including field staff, of the DGE.
At the same time, in view of the complementarity of their activities, close
rapport would be maintained between the Director of the BDE and the Director
of the DGE.
4.03      Staffing.  Key Guinean staff positions would be as f-ollows:  the
Director of the DGE, the Director of the BDE, the heads of the financial and
administrative services department, the IRBANC laboratory, the training center
and the credit program, and the two field coordinators of the vaccination
program. There would be no department head for the regional :Livestock services
and the vaccination program as these programs would be directLy supervised by
the General Director of Livestock. An assurance was obtained during negotia-
tions thaLt the above positions would be staffed at all times by appropriately
qualified and experienced persons. In view of the particular importance for



- 24 -
satisfactory project implementation of the posts of Director of the DGE and
Director of the BDE, satisfactory appointments or confirmation of satis-
factory appointments for these two posts would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
4.04      Technical Assistance.  Six internationally recruited specialists
would be recruited to assist Guinean cadres in specialized activities for
which local expertise is limited. In all, 19 man-years of technical assis-
tance are expected to be required, distributed as shown in the implemen-
tation calendar of Annex II, Figure 2. These positions are: (i) an econo-
mist in the BDE; (ii) a livestock specialist with project management experi-
ence to assist the Director of the DGE; (iii) an accountant with former
experience as a project financial director for the financial and admini-
strative services department; (iv) a veterinary specialist for disease
diagnosis and vaccine production at the IRBANC laboratory; (v) a training
specialist with experience in the livestock sector for the project's training
center; and, (vi) an extension and training specialist with broadly based
experience in the livestock sector who would be based at Kindia training
center to assist in the training program, and who would also hold additional
specific responsibilities for overseeing the credit program (para. 3.24) and
any field activities connected with export of N'Dama breeding stock (para.
3.25). These staff would initially perform their project responsibilities as
line managers (with the exception of the economist in the BDE) in their
specialist roles (para 3.22) but would, towards the end of their assignments,
increasingly function in an advisory role so as to provide a smooth transition
of responsibilities. In view of the need to follow-up on the training and
ensure adequate supervision of staff in the field, the extension and training
specialist based at Kindia (para 3.18) would hold line responsibilities for
managing the follow-up training and visit program and supervising on-the-job
training of field level staff by middle level staff. In order to encourage
the transfer of specialist expertise to Guinean cadres, expatriate TORs place
strong emphasis on the capacity of expatriates to assist counterpart staff to
acquire their specialist skills. Terms of reference are in the project
file and were agreed during negotiations.
4.05      Provision for the employment of an architect (para 4.11) and for
the hire of about 30 man months of additional specialist services on a
short term basis, has also been provided for under the project. Such ser-
vices would cover project needs as they materialize and are discussed and
agreed during the course of project supervision. Likely areas requiring
supplementary consultant assistance were agreed upon during negotiations
and would include: specialist programs at the training center (para 3.17);
the services of a specialist in the design of radio programs for extension
work (para 3.05); a construction supervisor for the building program (para
4.11); a credit specialist for the pilot credit program (para. 3.24); and,
supplementary assistance as needed for special studies (para. 3.25). The
selection and appointment, including terms of reference of all technical
assistance staff and of short term consultants would require IDA approval and
would be through procedures satisfactory to IDA. An assurance to this effect
was obtained during negotiations.



- 25 -
4.06      The recruitment of all technical assistance staff and the hiring of
short term consultants would be through, if possible, a single consulting
firm. Subcontracting or informal linkages by the employed firm with other
consulting firms or with individuals is, however, most likely given the
range of expertise required which is seldom available in anv one firm.
The signing of a satisfactory contract or contracts for the project-s tech-
nical assistance positions (paras 4.04 and 4.05) would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
4.07      Implementation.  The project would be implemented over four years
according to the schedule at Annex 2, Figure 2. Prior to Credit effective-
ness, design work for the construction program would be financed through PPF
(para 5.04). Subsequently, in PY1, the main activities would be construction
of buildings, procurement of equipment, and establishment of key Guinean and
technical assistance staff. To the extent possible with the equipment and
staff resources available, certain key activities such as the selective
training of field staff, the western vaccinaion campaign and ithe distribution
of some veterinary products would also get underway during PYL.  Additionally,
the upgra,ding of senior staff skills through the fellowship program would be
initiated, during that year. From PY2 onward, field work would get further
underway reaching full momentum by PYs 3 and 4. Herdsmen usage of veterinary
products is expected to build up during the four year project period to a
level whereby 25% of the herd would receive treatment.
4.08      Preparation of a Possible Follow-up Project.  In order to provide
the basis for a possible second project, detailed preparation for such an
eventual:Lty would commence during PY3. This work would be the responsibility
of the BDE which would receive help in specialist areas from other project
staff and would also have recourse to the project's short term consultancy
provisiorts should this be necessary. It was agreed during negotiations that
prior to start-up of project preparation activities, terms of reference for
the study would be presented to IDA for comment and approval. IDA would
subsequently provide general orientations and guidance for the preparation
work during the course of project supervision.
4.09      Data Collation and Analysis.  The BDE would be responsible for
collation of data relevant to the project and the sector and for its sub-
sequent analysis. Currently, a great deal of data is collected by livestock
service staff, but excessive demands for information on a census basis and
lack of supervision have jeopardized the accuracy of the information. Under
the BDEIs guidance, data collection would be streamlined and reduced but
improved in content and quality. Census type collection of data would be
substantially reduced in favor of statistically based sample surveys. These
would be used to investigate key technical parameters of the Guinean herd such
as population, health, deaths and offtake, and the impact of the project upon
these paLrameters, together with information on marketing, farmer attitudes and
other matters of interest.  This information would be supplemented by an
analysis of project costs and deployment of resources so as to provide a
continuing assessment of project impact, shortcomings, and future objectives.



- 26 -
4.10      Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles.  Project vehicles would
be under the specific responsibility of the senior officer to which each
vehicle is allocated. Further, in view of the need to economize on vehicle
and fuel usage, a log book system would be introduced involving a form for
each month on which to record journeys travelled, their purpose and the
distances involved plus fuel and lubricant usage. Every month these forms
would be passed on by the officer concerned to the financial and administra-
tive services department in the DGE who would be responsible for monitoring
vehicle usage. Fuel and lubricants would be purchased through standard
Government procedures which involve a coupon system arranged with the Govern-
ment supplier of oil products, ONAH. All project vehicles and equipment
would be purchased with a stock of spare parts, and project costing allows
for subsequent replenishment of this stock. Repairs would be handled, as
currently with the UNDP vaccination campaign project, through direct hiring as
and when needed of Guinean mechanics, and provision to them of necessary spare
parts. The above arrangements were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.11      Project Buildings.  Project construction works -- new buildings
for the DGE headquarters, a training center, six houses for resident technical
assistance staff and a guest house for visiting consultants, the western field
headquarters at Mamou and 16 DREP centers; plus the refurbishing of Kankan
field headquarters and 11 existing DREP centers -- would be undertaken by
contractors commencing in PY1. Sites for the project-s main buildings have
been identified. Construction plans would be standardized as far as possible
following designs successfully used previously in Guinea or in other West
African countries. Government is currently making contractual arrangements
with an architect considered satisfactory for this purpose who would be
financed through the project-s PPF allocation (para 5.04). The architect is
expected to have bidding documents prepared by early 1981. The architect-s
contract would also cover assistance in evaluating bids-, and occasional visits
during the construction period. Daily supervision during the construction
period would be handled by a qualified Guinean engineer, supplemented by six
months of consultancy visits from an internationally hired construction
supervisor. Priorities for early completion would be the training center,
followed by the DGE headquarters and expatriate housing. Government has
agreed to provide temporary accommodation for technical assistance staff
pending completion of project housing.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
5.01      Project Costs.  The cost of the project is estimated at US$21.0
million (sylis 399 million) of which US$17.5 million (sylis 332 million) or
83% represents foreign exchange (Table 1). Project costs include an estimated
US$0.6 million (sylis 12 million) of government markups in fuel and lubri-
cant costs and in certain materials like cement in construction costs
(about US$0.3 million in each category) which represent a tax element. All
other project expenditures do not include taxes as Government intends to
exempt from tax all goods and services imported directly for the project.
Project costs net-of-taxes are therefore US$20.4 million (sylis 387 million)
of which 86% is in foreign exchange.



- 27 -
5.02      Project costs were estimated in dollars for all imported goods
and services and in sylis for locally purchased items. Conversion between
dollars and sylis has been done at the official exchange rate of 19 sylis:US$.
Vehicle and equipment cost estimates include allowances for an initial stock
of spare parts;. Technical assistance costs, which amount to US$2.9 million
or 19% of base costs (inclusive of all fees, overheads, air fares and ex-
penses), have been estimated on the basis of recent consultant contracts in
Guinea and average US$9,600 per month for the project's resident staff and
US$13,000 per month for short term consultant services. Cost estimates do
not include any local staff salaries as, in view of Government's overstaffing
(para 1.26), the proposed project would not create any incremental employment.
Project costs include only incremental drug, medicament and mineral salt
requirements (US$4.4 million or sylis 84 million including contingencies).
Base costs in Table 1 are expressed in mid-1980 terms. Physical and price
contingencies were calculated as follows:
A. Physical Contingencies
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles,
Furnishings and Spare Parts:        15% of base costs
Technical Assistance and
Fellowships                         zero
All other costs                     10% of base costs
B. Expected Price Increases (all project costs)
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Annual Rates (%)          10.5  9.0   8.0   7.0   7.0
Compound Factor             1.05 1.15  1.24  1.33  1.42
Allowances for expected price increases are based on anticipated international
inflation rates as most project costs are foreign expenditures and price
increases for local costs are expected to be approximately in line with
international rates. Physical contingencies amount to US$1.3 million (Sylis
26 million) and price contingencies to US$4.4 million (Sylis 83 million).
5.03      Proposed Financing.  An IDA Credit of SDR 13.3 million (US$17.5
million) would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project representing
83% of project costs (86% of net-of-tax project costs). The local contribu-
tion to project costs would be US$3.5 million while purchasing of non-
incremental veterinary products would amount to a further US$8.1 million
making up a total of US$11.6 million. As all veterinary products would be
purchased by herdsmen who would be charged at rates designed to cover c.i.f.
and transportation costs plus a margin to cover local costs, Government's net
financial position would be positive (para 5.14). A proposed financing plan
is at Table 2. Government would finance: (i) 35% of constructiLon costs
(US$1.1 million, sylis 21 million); (ii) the costs of some locally supplied



- 28 -
items such as some furnishings and equipment and food for the training center
(US$1.0 million; sylis 20 million); and, (iii) provision of credit funds for
the pilot credit program (US$0.3 million; sylis 6 million); and, would pre-
finance and procure (i) fuel and lubricant costs (US$1.0 million; sylis 19
million); (ii) contract transportation costs for mineral salts (US$1.4
million; sylis 27 million); and, (iv) purchase of veterinary inputs, all of
which would be purchased and paid for by herdsmen. In addition, Government
would continue to finance local staff salaries which currently amount to about
sylis 50 million (US$2.6 million). An assurance was provided by Government
during negotiations that local funding of all necessary project related
expenditures such as those described above would be made available in a timely
manner.
Table 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
% of
Sylis  000                   US$ Million          Base
Foreign    Local    Total       Foreign  Local  Total   Cost
DGE H.Q. and BDE                 18,035      8,774    26,809        0.9      0.5    1.4       9
Vaccine Production and
Diagnostic Laboratory          16,872      1,488    18,360        0.9     0.1    1.0        6
Incremental Drugs, Medicaments
and Mineral Salts              60,420          -    60,420        3.2       -    3.2       21
Reinforcement of Regional
Livestock Services             57,893    20,349    78,242         3.0     1.1    4.1       27
Vaccination Campaigns            13,908      2,679    16,587        0.7      0.2    0.9       6
Training Center                  14,630    10,296    24,926         0.8      0.5    1.3       9
Fellowship Program                5,415          -      5,415       0.3        -    0.3       2
Technical Assistance             54,872          -    54,872        2.9        -    2.9      19
Pilot Credit Program                545      4,133      4,678         -     0.2    0.2        1
I.   TOTAL BASE COST            242,590    47,719   290,309        12.7     2.6   15.3    100
Contingencies
Physical                       20,615      5,035    25,650        1.1     0.2    1.3
Price Escalation               69,200    13,822    83,022         3.7     0.7    4.4
II.  TOTAL CONTINGENCIES         89,815    18,857   108,672         4.8     0.9    5.7
III. TOTAL PROJECT COST         332,405    66,576   398,981        17.5     3.5   21.0
(Including Taxes)
IV.  TAXES                            -    11,590    11,590           -     0.6    0.6
V.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        332,405    54,986   387,391        17.5     2.9   20.4
(net-of-taxes)



- 29 -
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
IDA   Govt.      Herdsmen   Total
Constructions                           2.1    1.1           -        3.2
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles,
Furnishings and Spare Parts           5.7    0.3           -        6.0
Veterinary Products /a                  5.7      -          6.8       12.5
Technical Assistance                     3.6     -           -        3.6
Fellowships                              0.4     -           -        0.4
Fuel and Lubricants /b                   -       -          1.0        1.0
Contract Transportation Costs
for Mineral Salts /b                    -       -          1.4       1.4
Miscellaneous Local Supplies              -     0.7          -        0.7
Pilot Credit Program                     -      0.3         /c        0.3
A.   Total:  Including non-            17.5    2.4          9.2      29.1
increrLental veterinary
products
B.   Total:  Exclusive of non-
incremental veterinary
products:
i) Inclusive of Taxes            17.5    2.4         1.1       21.0
ii) Exclusive of Taxes            17.5    1.8         1.1       20.4
/a   US$4.4 million of the US$12.5 million (including contingencies) re-
presents incremental purchases covered in the project cost estimates of
Table 1, the remaining US$8.1 million representing replacement purchases.
IDA would finance an additional US$1.3 million of the cost of veterinary
products to cover the foreign exchange element in the costs of fuel and
lubricants and contract transportation costs which, to simplify disburse-
ment, would not be contributed to.
/b   Directly financed by Government.  Herdsmen payments for the purchase
of vetterinary products would cover these costs (para 5.14).
/c   Less than US$100,000.
5.04      Project Preparation Facility.  To allow for commencement of
constructions during the first year of the project, a provision of US$200,000
has been miade under the project preparation facility.  This would finance the
services of a consultant architect to undertake detailed design and prepara-
tion of bidding documents for project buildings (para 4.11). The PPF provi-
sion is included under the technical assistance category in the financing
plan of Table 2.
5.05      Procurement.  International competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines would be used for all contracts over US$50,000 for: (i)
equipment, vehicles, materials and furnishings (estimated cost US$4.0
million); (ii) veterinary products for supply to farmers (estimated total



- 30 -
cost US$12.5 million of which IDA US$5.7 million); and, (iii) constructions
(estimated cost US$3.2 million of which IDA US$2.1 million). About US$11.8
million of IDA financing would therefore be for items procured through
international competitive bidding. Purchases would be grouped wherever
practical to derive maximum advantage from bulk procurement. For civil works,
materials, equipment, vehicles, furnishings and veterinary products that
cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 each (US$1.4 million),
procurement would be through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA or through negotiated purchase on the basis of local price quotations.
Certain minor materials, furnishings and small equipment which are currently
obtained through centralized Government importing agencies would continue to
be purchased through this mechanism (estimated cost US$0.3 million). Arrange-
ments for the hiring of internationally recruited staff and short term con-
sultant services (US$3.6 million) and for the fellowship program (US$0.4
million) would be through procedures satisfactory to IDA. Bidding documents
for construction contracts would be subdivided into lots arranged so as to
provide the opportunity for bidding by small locally represented construction
firms. In evaluating bids for constructions, local contractors would be
allowed a 7.5% preference.
5.06      Disbursements.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed over four and a
half years to cover:
(a)  CATEGORY I 100% of foreign exchange costs of constructions
(SDR 1.44 million - US$1.9 million);
(b)  CATEGORY II 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment,
furnishings, spare parts and laboratory materials and
chemicals (SDR 3.8 million - US$5.0 million);
(c)  CATERGORY III for veterinary products (drugs, medicaments
and mineral salts):
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures for incremental purchases
(SDR 3.34 million - US$4.4 million); and
(ii) 16% of foreign expenditures for replacement
purchases (SDR 0.84 million - US$1.1 million);
(d)  CATEGORY IV 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assist-
ance staff and other consultant services (SDR 2.28 million -
US$3.0 million);
(e)  CATEGORY V 100% of foreign expenditures for the fellowship
program (SDR 0.23 million - US$0.3 million);
(f)  CATEGORY VI Reimbursement of the amount disbursed under the PPF
allocation including unpaid financing charges (SDR 0.15 million
- US$0.2 million); and
(g)  CATEGORY VII Allocation towards the project revolving fund
(para 5.08) in foreign exchange (SDR 0.08 million - US$0.1
million).



- 31 -
SDRl.14 million (US$1.5 million) would be unallocated. A schedule of dis-
bursements is at Annex I, Table 2. Category II includes materials required
for vaccine production. All disbursements would be fully documented.  The
disbursements against non-incremental purchases of veterinary products in
Category C fii) above (US$1.1 million after allowances for the Unallocated
Category) are calculated so as to compensate for not financing foreign exchange
costs in fuel and lubricant and transportation costs (footnote (a) of the
financing plan).
5.07      Financing Procedures and Revolving Funds.  Administration of project
accounts, procurement and disbursement would be handled through the DGE-s
Financial and Administrative Services Department. Accounting for veterinary
supplies to herdsmen would be kept separate from the accounts for other
project expenditures and is described in paras. 3.07 and 5.12. For all other
project items, local expenditures would be financed as at present through
provisions from the "Budget Nationale" (para 1.29). Forward planning of
incremental requirements in local currency, and the allocation of funds
required, would be as described in para 5.10.
5.08      For foreign expenditures, a special account for the project in
foreign exchange would be established in the "Banque Guineene du Commerce
Exterieur" (BGCE). Foreign exchange working capital requirements in this
fund would be kept at a minimum through the usage of procedure III financing
(direct payments to suppliers) wherever possible. Some foreign exchange
held in this account with the BGCE would, however, be necessary primarily for
the financing by Government of certain smaller items and materials purchased
directly for the project and for the direct financing of costs involved in
some fellowships and short term consultant services. A revolving fund in
foreign exchange equivalent to US$100,000 would therefore be established for
these purposes immediately after project effectiveness through a withdrawal of
this amotnt from the IDA Credit. IDA would replenish the account upon receipt
of evidence of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures. Should
any disbursements be made from the revolving fund that are not acceptable to
IDA, Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the corres-
ponding amount. Monitoring of disbursements against the revolving fund would
be faciliLtated by the requirement that all withdrawal requests would be fully
documented and would be accompanied by monthly statements of the revolving
fund account giving details of all withdrawals and deposits as well as the
opening and closing balance of the account. Agreement on the above procedures
was reached during negotiations including specific assurances safeguarding
the appropriate usage of the revolving fund. Opening of the special account
at the BGCE would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit.
5.09      Reporting Requirements, Accounts and Auditing.  Project reporting
procedures would be the responsibility of the BDE which wouldi arrange for
the provision of appropriate information from the key departments responsible
for the project. Such reports would be produced annually and quarterly and
would be designed to provide a management tool with which to monitor the
progress of the project, make improvements where appropriate, and plan for
the future requirements of the project. Sound financial reporting would be a
key element of these reports and would be handled, in liaison with the BDE,



- 32 -
by the Financial and Administrative Services Department. Accounting records
would be consistent with sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect
the detailed cost of project operations.
5.10      The annual report would be produced not later than March 31 of
each year, three months after the end of the preceding financial year
(January 1 to December 31). The report would contain a description of the
past financial year's activities, achievements realized, and a comparison
against targets set at appraisal and at the beginning of the year. Targets
established for the current financial year would also be contained in the
report together with expected targets for the following financial year. The
report would be accompanied by an estimated budget for the current financial
year separated by main cost items, and detailed costings for the previous
financial year. The report would be sufficiently detailed to provide a
meaningful assessment of the past year's progress and of financial, managerial,
staffing and technical needs by project sub-activity during the current year.
Brief quarterly reports would be produced within two months of the end of
each quarter and would provide summary financial information together with
key comparative information concerning the project's physical progress, and
also continually updated forecasts of forthcoming project needs (equipment,
materials, veterinary inputs, staff etc.) and their financial implications.
The quarterly reports would form the primary tool for short and medium term
planning of project implementation and would form the basis for allocating
sufficient local currency reserves from the "Budget Nationale" (para 5.08)
and for procurement planning. The annual and quarterly reports and their
associated accounts would be made available to IDA within the time durations
specified above and would form a basis for discussions with Government
concerning project progress, ongoing needs and future orientations. The
above procedures (paras 5.09 and 5.10) were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
5.11      Project accounts would be audited by a qualified independent
agency under procedures satisfactory to IDA and an audit report would be
submitted to IDA within four months of the end of each financial year (by
April 30). The audit report would include specific verification of the
legitimacy of all expenditures utilizing the foreign exchange revolving fund
(para 5.10). An assurance on the above was obtained from Government during
negotiations. As with the recently effective Rice Development Project
(Cr. GUI-952) it is anticipated that this function would be handled by the
"Ministere de Controle d'Etat" (MCE). The MCE operates in Guinea as an
independent auditor and has demonstrated the thoroughness of its procedures
in connection with the Daboya Pineapple Project (Cr. GUI-569). Agreement
was reached during negotiations that any alternative auditing arrangement that
might be proposed by Government during the course of the project would be
discussed beforehand with IDA and should be acceptable to IDA.
5.12      Charges for Veterinary Services.  Veterinary treatments and
mineral licks (paras 3.06 to 3.07) would be provided to herdsmen at costs
designed to allow for the recovery of project induced Government expenses
(para 5.14) and to remain attractive to livestock owners (paras 6.11 to
6.14). Vaccinations (paras 3.08 to 3.12) would be free so as to ensure total



- 33 -
coverage wherever needed. This distinction is in keeping with the different
characteristics of the project's two main field interventions. Vaccinations
are as much in the national as in the individual herdsman-s interest, whereas
veterinary treatments and mineral licks offer specific and clearly defined
user benefits.
5.13      Charges would be standardized throughout the country at 20 sylis
(about US$1.00 at the official exchange rate) per treatment regardless of
type with the exception of sprays against external parasites which would be
charged at 10 sylis (about US$0.50) per animal. Such uniform rates would
simplify accounting and would help ensure that financial considerations would
not bias the decisions taken by the veterinary officer or the herdsman
regarding the type of treatment required.  Mineral licks would be charged at
about 50%t above c.i.f. cost price -- 8 sylis (about US$0.40) per kg -- so as
to cover transportation and storage costs. The charges for veterinary
treatments are about twice the average estimated costs of the chemicals and
materials used. A small fixed percentage margin to provide for some free
demonstrations and also to make up for some breakages and losses would be
allowed for in the provision and accounting of veterinary products and
mineral 'Licks. This would be set at 5% for veterinary products and 2% for
mineral 'Licks. Project costs and the financial and economic analysis take
account of this margin. The above arrangements (paras 5.12 and 5.13) were
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
5.14      Financial Implications for Government.  A cash flow representing
the impact of the project upon Government's financial position is at Annex
I, Table 6. Payments received from herdsmen during PYs 1 to 4, would amount
to sylis 278 million which is equivalent to US$14.6 million. This would cover
the loca:L costs of the project (sylis 67 million; US$3.5 million), and the
replacement costs of veterinary products (sylis 154 million, US$8.1 million)
leaving an estimated margin of about sylis 60 million (US$3.0 million) which
could makce up for losses in revenues stemming from abolition of the vaccina-
tion tax (para 1.29) and contribute to the costs of livestock service staff
salaries (currently estimated at about sylis 50 million, US$2.6 million,
para 1.26).
5.15      So as to cover Government's financial requirements for the re-
purchase of veterinary products and mineral salts, funds received from
herdsmen in the account with the BNDA set up for that purpose, would be
converted to foreign exchange at the official exchange rate between the
syli and the foreign currencies required.  Should herdsmen contributions
be insufficient to cover these needs, Government would provide the extra
funds required (para 5.03). Assurances to the above effect were obtained
during negotiations.
5.16      The cash flow at Annex I, Table 6 is based on the assumption that
the charges for veterinary treatments would not be changed during the project
disbursement period but then increased by 50%, an amount equivalent to the
anticipalted international inflation during that period, and would thereafter
be increased annually in line with annual inflation. Under this set of
assumptions, net revenues from PY5 would continue to be positive. It is
probable, however, that charges for veterinary treatments would be increased



- 34 -
sooner than in PY5 in which case a lower increment in prices would still
entail a satisfactory balance for Government in subsequent years. Neverthe-
less, a stepwise rather than a smooth progression of prices (for instance 10
sylis to 15 sylis for sprays and 20 sylis to 25 sylis for other treatments,
etc.) would be necessary in order to continue to utilize for single purchases
the smallest coin in common circulation, the five sylis piece. It is expected
that for the first two years of the project at least, the charges for veteri-
nary treatments would not change from the amounts specified in para 5.13 so
as to facilitate acceptance by herdsmen during the introductory period.
Veterinary charges would, however, be reviewed continuously during the course
of project supervision bearing in mind such criteria as, firstly, the recovery
of purchase and distribution costs and, secondly, the ability and willingness
to pay of livestock owners. In view of the importance of the charges levied
upon Government's financial position and upon usage by herdsmen of project
inputs, Government provided an assurance at negotiations that it would discuss
with IDA the charges to be levied annually and would, prior to making any
adjustment to these charges, discuss the implications of such a proposed
change with IDA beforehand.
VI. MARKETING, PRICES, PRODUCTION AND INCOMES
A.   Marketing and Pricing Policies
6.01      Marketing of cattle is done both through an official channel
and through the unofficial or "parallel" market (para 6.04). For other
livestock, the parallel market is used almost exclusively. The official
marketing system is based on an annual census conducted by regional officials
which forms the basis for an annual quota of 10% of the national herd dis-
tributed according to the census and which is supposed to be marketed offi-
cially. Pouvoir Revolutionnaire Local (PRL, para 1.21) leaders are given
responsibility for rounding up the required number of animals. Cattle are
then delivered to the regional authorities responsible for collecting the
animals ("Entreprises de Commercialisation du Betail, ENCOBE's) for which the
PRL receives 13 sylis/kg liveweight. Of this, herdsmen receive 11 sylis/kg
liveweight. The ENCOBE's deliver either: (i) to an official regional butcher
at 15 sylis/kg liveweight for local sale of meat at 32 sylis/kg; or, (ii) to
the abbatoir at Mamou for 15 sylis/kg liveweight for subsequent slaughter and
transportation to OBETAIL in Conakry for 40 sylis/kg carcass weight; or (iii)
directly to OBETAIL's other abbatoir in Conakry for 18 sylis/kg liveweight.
OBETAIL ("Office de Commercialisation du Betail"), which is a government
enterprise responsible for supplying meat to Conakry, sells to nine official
retail outlets in which meatis sold under strict rationing for 50 sylis/kg.
6.02      Although the official system has as its objective the supplying of
meat to consumers in Conakry at prices which would keep the cost of living
low, it is extremely inefficient and open to considerable abuse. The census
on which the quota is made, for example, is generally a poor reflection of
the size of the herd as herdsmen are reluctant to report all their cattle,
principally because of the low official price that they receive (20% of the
parallel market price, para 6.07), but also because payments to herdsmen are



- 35 -
in many regions delayed by up to two or three months and because the census
is also perceived by herdsmen as the basis for the unpopular annual "vacci-
nation tax" (para 1.29). Additionally, while there are age and weight
criteria for animals that are to be sold on the official market, this is
seldom met a9 the low official price induces herdsmen to offer only their
lightest an,imals, generally the sick or the very young. Losses in transit as
a result of unsatisfactory handling of the animals are also high.  Animals may
be kept up to 6 days under poor conditions awaiting transportat:Lon and an
additional 5 days awaiting slaughter. This can cause weightlosses of up to
15% to liveweights rarely exceeding 130 kg. By comparison, the liveweights of
normal healthy adult animals are between 200 and 250 kg.  Further losses,
estimated at 12% of carcass weight, occur during storage and transit sub-
sequent to slaughter.
6.03      The end result of these inefficiencies is that in recent years
the official market is estimated to have accounted for less than 600 tons of
meat (with bone) per annum which, when divided by Conakry's population,
represents less than one kg per person. This has led to infreqluent and
irregular availabilities.  Moreover, the rationing system for distributing
such supplies tends to favor higher income Governraent employees, at the
expense of low income consumers.
6.04      Since the mid 1970s an unofficial marketing system for meat has been
allowed to evolve parallel to the official channel, as Government has become
increasingly tolerant of free market activities. Producers sell animals
directly to traders and butchers, slaughtering generally takes place in open
spaces under variable sanitary conditions, and retailing is through traditional
town market stalls and on the roadside.  Prices in this market are not systema-
tically gathered or analysed, but appear to be about 50 sylis/kg liveweight
(nearly five times the price paid to herdsmen by Government) and, for meat,
100 sylis/kg in remote towns and roadsides, to over 150 sylis/lcg in Conakry
(in contraLst to the official price for meat of 50 sylis/kg). The size of the
parallel market for cattle is estimated to be equivalent to about 12,500 tons
of meat (para 6.09) representing over 90% of the market for beef.
6.05      As a result of the development of the parallel market, and the
ability of herdsmen and urban consumers to use this channel to effectively
bypass the inefficient and inegalitarian official market, continuation of
the current system, providing that further measures are not attempted by
Government to enforce the ten percent compulsory purchasing system more
strictly, would have only a minor negative impact upon the incentives for
herdsmen to adopt project recommendations. The parallel market would be
expected to continue functioning and its supply and demand responsive pricing
mechanism would provide sales outlets and appropriate incentives. However,
continuation of the official marketing system in its present form is not
ideal. Firstly, the relationship between herdsmen and livestock service staff
is impeded because the extension workers (who conduct their owm census in
addition to that undertaken by the regional authorities) are often perceived
by herdsmen as being somehow involved with the census undertaken by the
regional authorities upon which compulsory sales to Government and the
"vaccination tax" are based (para 1.29). Secondly, maintaining the official



- 36 -
marketing system as it is, would continue to divert government resources and
interest away from and even preclude actions such as sanitary inspection of
meat processing, dissemination of price and market information, and exporta-
tion of N'Dama breeding stock which would widely encourage sectoral pro-
ductivity.
6.06      In light of the above observations, an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that Government would, by December 31, 1981, take
measures with respect to the official cattle marketing system to remove
constraints on further development of the livestock sector and to offer
adequate incentives to herdsmen for the sale of their cattle. It was further
agreed that the measures to be introduced would include: (i) creation of a
new system for the livestock service to collect data on herd size so that
there would be no risk of confusion by herdsmen with the census conducted by
the regional authorities; (ii) forth-coming estimates of Government meat
requirements would be estimated in terms of meat tonnage rather than head of
cattle and cattle would eventually be purchased by Government authorities in
the free market at competitive prices to attract the targeted production (the
regional authorities' census could then be dispensed with); and (iii) the
ENCOBE's would provide herdsmen with cash payments at the time of purchase.
During PY1 the internationally recruited BDE economist would be responsible
for coordinating a detailed analysis and for providing recommendations of
future price levels for the official cattle marketing system. He would, inter
alia, use the interim results of the study on agricultural prices and rural
incentives currently being undertaken under the Rice Development Project
(para. 1.09). IDA staff would, during the course of project supervision,
provide advice to Government relative to the results of the BDE's analysis and
concerning appropriate action to be taken.
B.   Economic Values of Meat and Milk
6.07      The estimates for the economic values of the projects' two princi-
pal products -- beef and milk - have been based on prices in the parallel
market supplemented by inferences from other sources. Meat (with bone)
fetches about 150 sylis/kg in the most important urban market, Conakry, and
about 125 sylis/kg in rural market centers. Herdsmen in transactions in
remote areas obtain about 50 sylis/kg for live animals which converts at a
liveweight to carcassweight ratio of 2.0 to the equivalent of 100 sylis/kg
of meat. These relationships agree quite closely with the mark-ups involved
in traditional marketing from rural producer to urban consumer in neighboring
countries (typically about 40% - 50% of the meat equivalent producer price),
and represent the costs of collection, trecking, slaughtering and selling
including coverage for weight losses. Retail prices for meat sold in urban
centers in other West African countries are also similar to parallel market
retail prices in Guinea. They range from US$2.50 to US$4.00 eq'uivalent per
kg depending upon the degree of scarcity in the area concerned. Guinean
urban retail prices of between 125 to 150 sylis/kg are equivalent, in economic
accounting prices (paras 1.09 and 7.04), to US$3.30 and US$3.90 respectively.
The economic analysis of Chapter VII therefore uses a price of sylis 100/kg



- 37 -
(US$2.63/kg in economic accounting prices after application of the estimated
standard conversion factor of 0.5; para 7.04) to value the "meal: equivalent
weight" (half of the liveweight) of cattle at farmgate.
6.08      Nilk prices of between 35 and 45 sylis per litre are observed
throughout Guinea. Milk is seldom sold far from its point of production
(generally in the village or at the roadside) and is not subjectL to Government
regulation.  A value of sylis 40/litre of mTilk has been taken in the economic
analysis which, in economic accounting prices, is equivalent to US$1.05 per
litre.
C. Production
6.09      Production Without the Project. The national cattle herd is estimated
at about 1,,250,000 head and is expected to be about stable. Available informa-
tion concerning herd fertility, composition and death rates indicates a
marketed (parallel and official) cattle offtake of about 11.5% representing
about 13,800 tons of carcass meat per annum. Mortality through diseases is
currently high -- about 8% per annum overall -- representing a further 4,800
tons of meat (on the assumption that about half of such meat is consumable)
which is available for consumption in the area where the animal has fallen.
Production from other sources is estimated as follows: sheep and goats 2,000
tons; pork 2,000 tons; poultry 2,500 tons; and eggs 1,300 tons. The global
production of meat, offal and eggs is therefore estimated at about 26,400 tons
or about 5.3 kg per capita per year representing about 1,000 grams of protein.
Annual milk consumption is estimated at about 28,000 tons or 5.5 litres per
capita. This figure is based on the assumption that 100 litres of mtlk per
lactating cow is made available for human consumption (after suckling by the
calves) and that about 54% of the estimated 520,000 cows would be lactating in
any given year. Inclusive of milk, annual production of protein is estimated
at about 1,300 grams per capita (Project File, Table B7).  Consumption is
probably lower than this as part of parallel market sales of animals are
thought to be sold over the borders in exchange for hard currencies or con-
sumer goods.
6.10      Project Impact.  While the veterinary measures introduced under
the project would be available for all forms of livestock, project impact
has been etstimated solely in terms of cattle output (incremental beef and
milk), the project's primary focus. Annex I, Table 3 provides details
concerning development of the herd plus assumptions used. Calving rates
are assumed to increase from 54% to 57%, calf mortality to fall from 34% to
25%, and mortality of young stock under two years of age to fall from 12% to
9%. Reduced mortalities in other age/sex categories are also expected and
included in the assumptions of Annex I, Table 3.  These factors are assu;med
to result in higher offtake (from an estinated current offtake of 11.5% to an
offtake of 14.5%), increased liveweights, and higher milk yields for lactating
cows. The total herd size is not assumed to be significantly affected,
increasing by only 4% in aggregate over the life of the project. Guinea's
forage resources, currently plentiful in most areas (paras 2.02 to 2.06), are
therefore not expected to be put under strain as a result of the project.



- 38 -
These factors would result in an incremental 4,200 tons per annum of marketed
beef or 30% of the estimated without-project beef supply. Tilk available
for human consumption would increase by about 1,000 tons per annum by PY4 and
by 11,000 tons per annum in PY11, an increment of 39%. Total animal protein
production as a result of the proJect would therefore have increased by 18%
from 1,300 grams to 1,500 grams per capita. The economic value of this
production increment (in constant 1980 terms) would be over US$22 million per
annum by PY11. However, it should be noted from Annex I, Table 3 that, due
to the lagged nature of the prodllct[on cycle for cattle, the impact of
the project builds up slowly reaching full development only in "Y1I.
D.   Herdsmen Incomes and Incentives
6.11      Producer Incomes.  The expected impact of the project upon producer
incomes is illustrated in Table 3. Payments for livestock treatments and
mineral salts are as at para 5.14.  Parallel market prices, sylis 100/kg for
carcass meat and sylis 40/litre for milk (paras 6.07 and 6.08), have been
used for valuing output as the official market price for meat has little
overall weight due to the low volumes involved (para 6.04). These values
reflect the real income generated from meat and milk production, although
only part of this will be in cash. Thus, some of the meat and most of the
milk is consumed by the family or apportioned in the village through non-
financial transactions.
Table 3: EFFECT ON HERDSMEN INCOMES /a
Without       With         Incremental
Project      Project    Amount    Percent
(Full Development)
at PY11
Gross Income from National Herd    Sylis   US$ SI ls   US$    Sylis  US$
Meat (millions)                      1378   (73)   1798   (95)    420   (22)    30
Milk (millions)                      1120   (59)   1560   (82)    440   (23)    39
Meat and Milk (millions)             2498  (132)   3358  (177)    860   (45)    34
Herdsman Contributions for
Veterinary Products (millions)        -      -       111    (6)    111    (6)       -
Net Income from Cattle:
National Herd (millions)             2498  (132)   3347   (171)   749   (39)    30
10 Animal Herd (units)              19964 (1051)  25951  (1366)  5987  (315)    30
5 Animal Herd (units)               9982  (525)  12975   (633)  2993  (157)    30
/a   Constant 1930 Terms.  In Sylis except for figures in parentheses which are
in dollars. (Conversions at 19 sylis:UJS$, the official exchange rate).
Figures for the national herd are in millions. All the above figures
refer to income from cattle only. Full details in Annex I, Table 7.



- 39 -
6.12      Under the project, aggregate annual gross income from the national
herd's meat and milk production would increase by 30% and 39% to sylis 1800
million (US$95 million) and sylis 1560 million (US$82 million) respectively,
or sylis 3360 million (US$177 million) from both sources. Without the project,
the combined gross income from meat and milk is estimated at sylis 2500
million (US$132 million). Thus, the incremental gross income from meat and
milk as a result of the project would be sylis 860 million (US$45 million)
representing an incremental gross income of 34%.  After subtracting herdsmen
expenditures on veterinary products and mineral licks, about sylis 110
million (US$6 million), net income from cattle would be expected to increase
as a result of the project by 30 percent or sylis 750 million (US$39 million).
The table also illustrates the "average" impact of the project upon a smaller
herd.  Thus, for a ten animal herd, average net income would increase from
sylis 20,000 (US$1050) to sylis 26,000 (US$1370), an increment of sylis 6,000
(US$320). Actual income would of course vary around this depending upon herd
composition and age structure at the time, and the degree to which each
herdsman takes advantage of project provided inputs.
6.13      While full development benefits for participants are substantial,
the full impact of such measures would not be realized for several years.
This is illustrated in Annex I, Table 7 which shows that annual net incremen-
tal returns for the national herd are expected to be negative until PY3.
Nevertheless, this lag is made up for by high returns in later years yielding
a 58% financial rate of return to herdsmen. Moreover, this return is fairly
resilient to adverse circumstances; thus, a combined 50% decrease in the
income stream and a 50% increase in herdsmen contributions still yields an 18%
rate of return. Of more immediate concern, however, is the perception of the
livestock owner over the shorter run when the full benefits from participation
would not yet have materialized. The average annual cost of animal treat-
ments and mineral licks for a 10 animal herd would be sylis 800 (US$42).
This represents only 4% of the average annual income from such a herd (without
the project) or, alternatively, the equivalent of 20 litres of milk or 8 kg
of meat. The payments expected from project beneficiaries are therefore
affordable.
6.14      Herdsmen Incentives.  The analysis of paras 6.11 to 6.13 above
illustraties the financial attractiveness to herdsmen of participating in the
project. It is expected that this would be fully appreciated by Guinean
livestock owners. Through contacts with herdsmen in neighboring countries,
Guinean livestock owners are aware of the benefits from using veterinary
inputs and mineral licks, and also know that these are generally charged
for. When available in Guinea, such items are in high demand and, for in-
stance, some livestock owners even go to the trouble of purchasing common
salt to provide to their cattle. Furthermore, while lags may be experienced
in realizing full income benefits from the project's health meiasures, the
results in terms of, for instance, the improved visual appearance of an
animal previously infested with parasites, are readily apparent.



- 40 -
E. Credit Program Incentives
6.15      Under the pilot credit program (paras 3.23 and 3.24), the otherwise
substantial investment cost inherent in building up a small cattle herd and
work oxen team would be reduced to supportable levels. This is illustrated
in Annex I, Table 8 where a model cash flow for a participating family with
a three hectare farm is provided. Provision of credit would relieve the
initial investment cost (over sylis 40,000, US$2,100) and result instead in
moderate annual surpluses over the first four years (sylis 1,300 to 2,000,
US$70 to 100). These projections are based on the current market value of
hiring out work oxen services and assume that the participant cultivates
his own fields and an additional two hectares under contract to other farmers
(the value of milk from his herd has not been included here). Occasional
sales from his herd from then onwards would supplement this income and from
year 9 the net annual income from the herd would average over sylis 18,000
(US$950).
F. Revenues from Export of Breeding Stock
6.16      The attractive properties of the N'Dama breed (para 1.11) are
reflected in the high prices offered for breeding stock. For instance,
in 1979, Gambia exported about 600 head of N'Dama to Nigeria for about
1,100 Dalasi (US$630) per head FOB, and Nigeria is expected to be interested
in acquiring such animals for a number of years. Also, in 1979, 250 head
of Senegalese cattle, predominantly N'Dama heifers, were exported to Ghana
for a price of 132,000 CFAF (US$640) per head FOB. A three year old heifer
can currently be purchased in the parallel market in Guinea for about sylis
6,000 or -- at the official exchange rate of sylis 19:US$ -- about US$320.
At the shadow exchange rate used in the project's economic analysis, this
is about US$160. The costs of getting the animals from farmgate to the
boat (mostly local costs such as wages) would be well within the margins
available between the FOB value and the parallel market purchase price,
thus justifying the attention that would be paid under the project to this
possibility (para 3.25). Successful implementation of such an export scheme
could therefore yield substantial foreign exchange earnings which could be
used for importation of meat into Guinea. Taking frozen Argentine beef, cif
Europe as a yardstick at about US$1800 per ton (1979), the exportation of
three heifers would be able to generate sufficient foreign exchange to import
one ton of meat. By comparison, Guinea's official marketing system is
estimated to account for less than 600 tons of meat.  However, there are
limitations on the overall size of such a scheme. Firstly, export possibili-
ties for N'Dama stock would have to be explored and taken advantage of as
each occasion arises. Secondly, at high export volumes the removal from the
national herd of breeding heifers would in large quantities have an adverse
impact upon herd productivity. For example, the annual exportation of 1800
heifers (equivalent in foreign exchange terms to 600 tons of imported meat)
would represent a 50% increase in current "mortality" rates of heifers of
three years of age and over. Nevertheless, the foreign exchange earnings to
be expected from a more limited breeding stock exportation scheme could become
a highly attractive element within the livestock sector, although the project's
financial and economic analysis has not included estimates for such benefits.



- 41 -
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits
7.01      The project-s directly quantifiable benefits would result from the
improvements in livestock productivity that it would induce. These have been
estimated entirely in terms of cattle output, the project's specific focus,
although other forms of livestock would also benefit from the project's
veterinary measures. Under the project, beef production is anticipated to
increase by 30% or by 4,200 t per annum (para 6.10). This would represent an
increment of 16% in the production of all forms of meat, offa:L and eggs.
Additionally, an incremental 11,000 t of milk or 39% of without project
production is expected. Per capita consumption of animal proteins (excluding
fish) would therefore be expected to increase by an average of 230 grams per
annum or by about 18%. This would represent a significant improvement in the
national diet of animal proteins which is currently estimated at 1,300 grams
per annum as compared to about 2000 grams for West African colntries as a
whole.
7.02      These benefits would be widely distributed.  About 160,000 families
(1.3 million persons) representing a quarter of Guinea-s population own
cattle. Almost all of these families would benefit through t'he project's
vaccination coverage and a majority of them are expected to utilize to some
degree the improved veterinary services provided under the project. Aggregate
net real income from cattle (in 1980 terms) of Guinean herdsmen is expected to
increase by 30% or 750 million sylis per annum (para 6.12). After adjusting
for exchange rate distortions (paras 1.09 and 7.04) this is equivalent to an
increment: of US$20 million or an average increment per family of US$125
equivalent.
7.03      Additionally, through its institution strengthening and training
measures, the project would enable the more effective usage of Government s
livestock service staff providing the technical and institutional base
for: (i) planning and implementing other initiatives in the livestock sector;
(ii) following up in a possible second phase on the productivity impetus
achieved under the project; and, (iii) examining and instigating improvements
to critical sectoral problems such as pricing, marketing and taxation policies,
and manpower planning and training. Furthermore, the pilot credit program
would encourage the spread of cattle ownership and the usage of draft oxen
and would establish a framework through which mixed farming systems, involving
closely iinterrelated livestock and cropping practices, could be developed in
the future. The potential for exporting N'Dama breeding stock would also be
explored and if possible developed during the project period. This could not
only provide much needed foreign exchange for Guinea but would also--as with
the project s vaccination program--have regional benefits.



- 42 -
B. Economic Analysis
7.04      Analytical Assumptions.  In calculating the project's economic rate
of return, only the project's directly quantifiable benefits (para 7.01) have
been taken into account and all project costs, including institution strengthen-
ing and training measures and the credit scheme, have been included. Costs
(net of taxes but inclusive of physical contingencies as at para 5.02)
and benefits have been computed over twenty years in constant 1980 prices.
For analytical purposes it has been assumed that project activities are
maintained at PY4 levels from PY5 onwards and that no further improvements to
the livestock services's impact upon productivity are achieved. Incremental
output has been valued at sylis 40/litre for milk and sylis 100/kg for
carcass beef on the basis of the findings at paras 6.07 and 6.08. Both
benefit streams and the local component of the cost streams have subsequently
been adjusted downwards by multiplying with a standard conversion factor
(SCF) of 0.5 so as to adjust domestic prices to their border values in
economic accounting prices (para 1.09). The resultant cost and benefit
streams are presented in Annex I Table 5 supported by Annex I Table 4 on cost
streams and Annex I Table 3 on herd development and production assumptions.
7.05      Economic Rate of Return.  Under the above assumptions, the project's
economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 25% (Table 4). Alternative
estimates encompassing the likely range of estimation error for the standard
conversion factor to be used, provide results of 33% for a SCF of 0.67 and
20% for a SCF of 0.4. If no adjustment for exchange rate distortions had been
made (i.e. a SCF of unity), the rate of return would have been 43%.
7.06      Sensitivity.  The sensitivity tests in Table 4 indicate that
the project's economic viability is fairly resilient to changes in costs or
benefits. Thus, a 20% shortfall in benefits or a 20% rise in costs would in
both cases still induce a rate of return of over 19%, and if both event-
ualities occured together, the ERR would still be acceptable at about 15%.
Alternatively, the sensitivity of the project to changes in costs or benefits
can be expressed in terms of switching values -- the percentage fall in
benefits or rise in costs which would reduce the net present value to zero at
the estimated opportunity cost of captial (12%) -- which are 74% for costs and
43% for benefits. This means that benefits would have to fall by 43% or
costs to rise by 74% for the ERR to fall as low as 12%. The effect upon the
project's economic rate of return of lags in the realization of benefits are
also illustrated in the table.



- 43 -
Table 4: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.  Point Estimate:                                                   ERR%
25%
2. VariatJnns in Cost and Benefits:
Cost              Benefits
Plus 20%               Unchanged                              21
Less 20%               Unchanged                              31
Unchanged              Plus 20%                               30
Unchanged              Less 20%                               20
Plus 10%               Less 10%                               20
Plus 20%               Less 20%                               16
Plus 20%               Lagged one year                        17
Plus 20%               Lagged two years                       13
3. Switching Values
Cost must increase by 74%
Benefits must decrease by 43%
4. Participation Rates
At 75% of Expected Rate                                           22
At 50% of Expected Rate                                           17
Participation at 75% of Expected Rate and delayed by one
year together with a cost increase of 20%                         14
7.07      The effects of alternative levels of participation in the veteri-
nary program have also been examined. The analysis has assumed that all
benefits and the variable costs associated with the veterinary program (costs
of veterinary products and mineral licks and their transportation) would
vary in the same proportion, while maintaining all other costs of training,
institutional strengthening, project management and the vaccination program
constant. At a 75% participation rate, the ERR becomes 22%; with only 50% of
herdsmen participating it falls to 17%. Under the combined assumptions of a
75% partLcipation rate, a one year lag in the benefit stream and a 20% rise
in costs, the ERR falls to 14%.
C. Risks
7.08      From a technical viewpoint the measures proposed under the project
for improving livestock productivity are not considered a major risk. The
activities already initiated in Guinea with UNDP/FAO assistance have demon-
strated the feasibility of the vaccination program, and the projects veterinary
measures are based on experience elsewhere in Africa.  Additionally, the
project would remain viable even under highly unfavorable relative trends of
inflation on costs versus benefits. Such a possibility could be envisaged for
veterinary products and mineral licks and their distribution costs. These



- 44 -
together amount to two thirds of project costs taken over a 20 year period.
A doubling of these costs relative to benefits would however still be within
the switching value for costs (para 7.06).
7.09      The project's main risks are judged to relate to:  (i) the need for
high calibre Guinean and technical assistance staff and the support that they
would need to receive from Government institutions connected with the project;
and, (ii) the willingness of livestock owners to particiate in the project.
On the former, risks would be minimised by careful attention to selection of
key Guinean staff and of consultants. This would be supported by fellowships
and programs at the training center designed to upgrade staff capabilities as
and where needed. Further, the project's organizational, administrative and
financial arrangements, have been designed to simplify and facilitate the
logistical and accounting problems inherent in a countrywide project involving
a large number of staff and beneficiaries and large transfers of goods,
personnel and funds.
7.10      The willingness of livestock owners to participate in the project
is explored in Chapter VI. Providing that herdsmen continue to have access
to the parallel market, financial incentives for herdsmen to participate are
judged to be present (para 6.14). Furthermore, they are aware of the bene-
fits from using veterinary inputs and mineral salts and from vaccinations. A
current impediment to herdsmen incentives concerns Government-s compulsory
offtake policy involving, theoretically, 10% of the herd. If this quota were
to be fully enforced, it would involve practically the entire current annual
offtake of the national herd (11.5%) and would severely reduce incentives as
the price paid to herdsmen is only about one fifth of that obtainable in the
parallel market. At present the policy has only a minor negative impact upon
incentives as enforcement is very incomplete (official offtake is less than
one tenth of total offtake, para 6.04). Further, the gradual resolution of
the current imbalance between official and parallel market prices (assurance
at para 6.06), which in turn would allow for abolition of the compulsory
purchase policy, would eventually remove this potential hazard to achievement
of the project-s objectives.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
on the following:
(a) measures would be taken by December 31, 1981 to initiate
a system of manpower planning, education and recruitment
for staff in the livestock sector in accordance with
staff needs and budgetary constraints (para. 1.28);
(b) measures to phase out the vaccination tax would be
undertaken by December 31, 1981 (para. 1.29);



- 45 -
(c) arrangements for distribution, accounting and charging for
veterinary products and mineral licks provided to herdsmen
were agreed (paras 3.07 and 5.13);
(d) facilities, vehicles, equipment and materials flurnished through
UNDP projects GUI/78/012 (vaccination campaign) and GUI/78/013
(IRBANC laboratory) would continue to be made available for
exclusive usage under the proposed project (paras 3.09 and
3.14);
(e) an annual plan for the recycling training center and the
fellowship program would be presented to IDA for comment and
approval at least two months before the start of each fiscal
year (para 3.21);
(f)  for the pilot credit program outline credit arrangements were
agreed and it was agreed that a model contract for use
between participants, the livestock service and the BNDA would
be prepared not later than December 31, 1981 for comment and
approval by IDA (para 3.24);
(g) the key Guinean personnel would be appropriately qualified
and experienced (para 4.03);
(h) terms of reference for technical assistance staff and a
proforma of short term consultant needs were agreed and,
selection and appointment of such staff and consultants would
be tnder procedures satisfactory to IDA and would1 require IDA
approval (paras 4.04 and 4.05);
'i) with respect to reporting requirements and procedures for
accounting and auditing: i) the annual report would be
presented not later than March 31 of each year and, the
quarterly reports would be produced within two months
of the end of each quarter (para 5.10), all to be made avail-
able to IDA for comment; ii) accounting would be in accordance
with sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect the
detailed cost of project operations (para 5.09); and iii)
auditing of project accounts would be by a qualified indepen-
dent agency and to standards satisfactory to IDA, and would
include a specific assessment of all expenditures made through
the project's foreign exchange revolving fund (para 5.11);
(j) for the financial arrangements of veterinary services, Govern-
ment would: i) allocate funds received from livestock owners
for veterinary products and mineral salts towards the repur-
chasing of such items which would be converted to foreign
exchange at official rates (para 5.15), and ii) set charges
to herdsmen at levels adequate to provide for the recovery of



- 46 -
costs and provide a surplus to compensate for phasing out the
vaccination tax bearing in mind the willingness and ability
of livestock owners to pay; and iii) discuss such charges
annually with IDA and consult with IDA prior to making
any changes to such charges (para. 5.16); and
(k)  with respect to the official cattle marketing system, measures
would be taken by December 31, 1981 to remove constraints on
further development of the livestock sector and to offer
adequate incentives to herdsmen for the sale of their cattle
(para. 6.06).
8.02      Conditions of project effectiveness would be:
(a)  satisfactory appointments or confirmation of satisfactory
appointments had been made to the positions of Director of the
DGE and Director of the BDE (para 4.03);
(b)  the signing of a satisfactory contract for the project-s
technical assistance positions (para 4.06); and
(c)  opening of a special foreign exchange account for the
project at the BGCE (para 5.08).
8.03      Under these assurances and conditions, the project is considered
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 13.3 million (US$17.5 million).



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVLWPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs By Year 1/
(UVS ' 000)
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
F2O         PYI          PY2          PY3          PY4           TOTAL            %          Aeaunt
INSTITUTIONAI. STRENGThENING (DGE/BDE H.Q,)
Constructias                                                                  806           -                                      806              65           524
Vehicles                                                                       86           34           -            -            120              100          120
Eqaipmest and Fur-ssings                                          -           134.8         59.5         65.5         65.8         325.6             64         208.6
Spare Parts                                                       -            -             8.6         12           12            32.6            100           32.6
Foel and Lubricants                                               -            22.4         34.8         34.8         34.8         126.8             50           64
Sub-total                                                       -         1,049.2        136.9        112.3        112.6       1,411.0             67         949.2
VACCINE PRODUCTION AND DIAGNOSTIC IABORATORY
Constr-ctions                                                     -            83           -            -            ,             83               65           54
Vehicles                                                          -            -            31           -            -             31             100           31
Equipaent sod Mstsrials                                           -           144           50           55          135           384               97          374
Spare Parts                                                       _            40           40           43           43           166              100          166
Foea  and Lubric.nt                                               -            -            24.1         24.1         24.1          72.3             50           36
Other Operating Costs                                             -            50           50           60           70           230               99          227
Sub-total                                                       -           11           195.1        182.1    6T 7.r3                           --           If
DRUGS AND MINERALS                                                   -           816        1,232          516          616         3,180              100        3,180
REINPORCEMET OF REGIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Constroctio-a                                                     -           448          382           -            -            830               65          540
Equip-eot for DREP Headquarters                                   -           175           -             1           21           139               90          177
Equipsent  for DREP and Arroodissemeot Clioic                     -           246           53           74           74           447              100          447         -
Vehicles                                                                       18           36           -            -             54              to0           54
Spare Parts                                                       -            16           30           33           33           112              I00          112
Fuel and Lubricants: Transportation Costs                         -           100          282          357          432         1,171               58          683
Other Operating Costs                                             -           316          325          333          333         1,307               79        1,034
Sub-total                                                       -         1,319        1,108          798          893         4.118               74       3,047
VACCINATION CAMPAIGN
Materiula and Eqoipsint                                           -           138            5            5          268           416              100          415
Operating Costs; Maintenance and Miacellaneous Supplies           -            49           59           59           59            226              89          201
Operating Costs; Fuels and Lubricants                             -            33           66           66           66            231              50          116
Sub-total                                                      -            220         130          130          393           873               8          732
PILOT CREDIT SCHEME
Investment Fonds                                                  -            -            42.1         63.1        105.3         210.5             -            -
Vehicles                                                          -            -            18           -            -              18             100           18
Spare Parts                                                       -            -            -             1.8          1.8            3.6           100            3.6
Fuel and Lubricants                                               -            -             4.7          4.7           4.7          14.1            50            7.1
Sub-total                                                       -            - 64.8   69.6                         111.8 2 4   6      . 2 28             .         7
TRAINING CENTER
Constructions                                                     -           687           -            -            -            687               65          447
Vehicles                                                                       -            86           -            -              86             100           86
Equipnent and Furnihings-                                                                   l            -            -             111              81           90
spare Parts                                                       -            -            -             8.9          8.9           17.8           100           17.8
Fuel and Lubricants                                               -            -            21.7          21.7         21.7          65.1            50           33
Miscellaneou.   Operating Costs                                                -           108          li6          121            345              28           96
Sub-total                                                       -           687          326.7        146.6        151.6       1,311.9             57
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM                                                    30           85           71           56           43           285             100          285
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Resident Staff                                                    -           202          690          690          633          2,215             100        2,215
Consultant Services                                              180          246          156           65            26           673             100          673
Sub-total                                                      180          448          846          755          659         2,888              IOO        2,888
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                  210       4,941.2      4,110.5       2,765.6      3,252.1      15,279.4             84      12,767.9
1/ Detailed Cost Tables in Project File.



-48-                            ANNEX I
Table 2
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Cumulative        Undisbursed
Fiscal Year 1/       Quarter       Disbursements       DisbursementdAboust
-                              ~~~~~~~~~Disbursement  Amount
FY81              Third             200                 200             17,300
Fourth            250                 450             17,050
FY82              First           1,250               1,700             15,800
Second          1,600              3,300              14,200
Third           1,500              4,800              12,700
Fourth          1,500              6,300              11,200
FY83              First           1,450               7,750              9,750
Second          1,200              8,950               8,550
Third           1,000              9,950               7,550
Fourth          1,000             10,950               6,550
FY84              First           1,000              11,950              5,550
Second          1,000             12,950               4,550
Third           1,200             14,150               3,350
Fourth          1,200             15,350               2,150
FY85              First             900              16,250              1,250
Second            650             16,900                 600
Third             600             17,500
1/  Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30
Closing Date: June 30, 1985



- 49 -
GOUch                                                                       ANNlES I
Tabl7e 3
LIVESTOCK uVnnPne    PROJECt
7'.4f94hiad)
Set ore
Oscolopuact
rTo           Ff1           nT2           PY           n4            n5            PY6           PY7           PY8          PY9          PYlO         Py1-O20
I.  NERD
ils                                25.9          25.9          25.9          25.9         25.9          24.6          23.0          22.5         22.9          23.6          24.5          24.3
Cars                             516.2          516.2         516.2        516.2         511.1         507.5         506.6        500.9         499.2         499.3         496.0        486.9
Heifer,  +3                       76.1           76.1          76.1         76.1          77.0          79.3          79.3          82.5         64.2          85.9          86.7          90.0
Hetier  2-3                       81.0           81.0          01.0          81.9         84.4          84.4          87.8          88.6         9). 4         91.3          94.5          94.7
Heifer. 1-2                       92.0           92.0          92.0          94.8         94,6          97.6          98.4         100.5        100).3        103.8         103.5         104.1
B            3lls/Stsees 343 31.                 31.3          31.3          31.3         31.8          33.4          33.9         36.0          3'.6          39.0          40.1         44.3
Balls/Steers 2-3                  58.0           58.0          58.0         58.9          60.7          61.6          64.4         66.0          61.3          69.2          71.7         73.9
Balls/Steers 1-2                  92.0           92.0          92.0          94.8         94.8          97.6          98.4        100.5         100;.3        103.8         103.5        104.1
Calves                           278.7          278.7         278.7        278.7         278.7         261.1         279.1        278.6         280.5         279.6         279.6        277.5
Totel                     1,251.2        1,251.2      1,251.2       1,258.6       1,259.2       1,267.1      1,270.9       1,276.1       1,2827        1,295.5      1,300.1       1,299.8
Total AU  1/                959.9          959.9        959.9         964.7         964.4         968.0         971.0        974.3         979.2         989.4         993.2        993.4
2. SRTALrTY
loll.                     1.~     ~     ~~~~          ~~~~~0 10  .0  10           1             00           10.9                        0.9.                        .            11.0
Co.s                              21 .           25.0          25 0          25.0         23.0          256           2.4           253          20.           25.0          25.0         919.
Hatters  +3                        3.0            3.8           3.8           3.0           3.0          3.9           4.0          4.0           ,1.           4.2           4.3          3.6
Hletfere 2-3                       4.9            4.9           4.9           4.9          4.9           5.1           5.1           5.3          4.4           4.5           4.6          4.7
REic05 1-2                        11.0           11.0          11.0         10.1          10.4          10.4           9.8           9.8         10.1           9.0           9.3          9.4
Balls/Steers 3-4                   1.6            1.6           1.6           1.6          1.6           1.6           1.7           1.7          1.6           1.9           2.0          1.8
BUlls/Stacos 23                     3.3           3.5           3.3           3.3          3.1           3.6           3.7           3.9          3.3           3.4           3.5          3.7
Salle/Stears 1-2                  11.0           11.0          11.0          10.1         10.4          10.4           9.8           0.8         10.1           9.0           9.3          9.4
Calves                            94.8           94,8          94.8         89.2          69.2          83.6          84.3         78.1          78.0          72.9          72.7         69.4
Total                       157.4          157.4        157.4         150.0         150.6         145.2        144.8         138.8         137.7         130.8        131.6         122.5
3.  BALES
Balls                             13.0           13.0          13.0         13.0          13.0          13.0          12.3         11.3          11.3          11.5          11.8         12.2
cove-                             46.5           46.5          46.5         46.5          51.6          51.1          50.8         55.7          51.1          54.9          59.9         63.3
Heifer-  +3                                                     -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -             3.6
Balls/St erer  3-4                15.7           15.7          15.7         15.7          13.7          17.5          20.0         20.3          211.6         22.6          23.4         29.1
BIlle/Stsa-  2-3                  23.2           23.2          23.2         23.2          23.6          23.7          24.0         24.5         :2.1           24.9          29.6         25.9
Balls/Strees 1-2                  23.0           23.0          23.0         23.0          23.7          22.6          23 4         22.6          2!3.1         22.1          22.8         20.8
Total                       121.4          121.4        121.4         121.4         127.6         128.1         130.5        134.6         136.2        136.0         143.5         154.9
4.       -ocal AU                    110.2          110.2         110.2        110.2         116.0         116.5         116.8        123.0         124.2         124.5         131.6        143.8
5.  MDO GRBL8TH 79 7 AU/               0              0             0            0.5           0             0.4           0.3          0.3           0.5           1.0          0.4           0
6. OFFTAIN 7% 7   /                   11.5           11.5          11.5         11.5          12.0          12.1          12.3         12.7          12.7          12.7          13.3         14.5
7.  PRO7CTIVITT  4/                   11.5           11.5          11.5         12.0          12.0          12.5          12.6         13.0          13.2          13.7         13.7          14.5
PAPANET=ERS
3. BERTALITY IN 7.
BUTls                              4              4            4             4             4             4           4              4             4            4             4             4
Coe                                5              5             5            5             S             5            5             5             S             5            5             4
eifers +3                          5              5             5            5             5             5            S5                                       5            5             4
Seifrs 2-3                         6              6             6            6             6             6           6              6             5             5            5             5
laif-e 1-2                        12             12            12           11            11            11          10             10            10             9            9             9
BSllelst-ers 3-4                   5              5             5            5             5             5            5             I             5             5            5             4
FlSta/S rears 2-3                  6              6             6            6             6             6           6              6             5             5            5             5
SolIs/Otsees 1-2                  12             12            12           11            11            11          10             10            10             9            9             9
Calo-                            34             34            34           32            32            30          30             28            28            26           26            25
9.  SALES IN %
Butl.                             50             50            50           50            50            50          50             50            50            50           50            50
Cass                               9              9             9            9            10            10           10            11            11            1I           12            13
Heifer  +3                        -              -             -            -             -             -           -              -             -            -             -              4
BSlle 3-4                         50             50            50           50            50            55          60             60            60            60           60            66
S.ll 2-3                          40             40            40           40            40            39          39             38            38            37           37            35
BSlls 1-2                         25             2 25          23           25            25            24          24             23            23            22           22            20
10'  CALVING RTE IN7.                   54            54            54            54           54            55           55             55           56            56            56           57
1/ aIn-1 USat  (AS) are calclated cc follow -rg beets: Salle * 1.2 AU, Cows, Helefss *5   , Balls/Iteers 3-4   1 AU; rtif-es 2-3, BVIl/Steer-  2-3 - 0.8; Selfers 1-2,
Sallilt-ers 1-0 - 0.6; Calves - 0.3
2, herd gro-th it perceot is thb  torrease of total AU tf  atit.cI herd darig I-et year.
3/ Offttse Ia 7. based as previoss year total AU, Offttak  is bei8 sold oat of herd
d/ Predac-iity is saw of hard  -rowth plo offtako.
Beed Production
PY0           FYI           PY2           PY3          PY4           Ff5          PY6            lY7          Pr8           PY9        .rT0l        PY11-20
l-t
I - tretal Bales (A.U.) 1/   -                -            -             -             5.6          6.3          6.6           12.6          14.0         14.3          21.4          33.6
-oerectal Soles (tr-e) 2/   -                 -            -             -             721           788       1,.73          1,600         1,750        1,786         2,675        4,200
Milk
N-b-r of Coea 1,-t-iog 3/ 078.7             278.7         278.7        287.7         276.0         279.1       276.6          275.5         279.5        279.6         277.8         277.5
L.atotioe pee rae 4/           100            lOl           100          100           105           110         115            120           123          130           135           140
Produetton (liters  c)        27.9           27.9          27.9         27.9          26.9          30.7        32.0           33.1          34.3         36.3          37.5          38.9
Iroreseetel Sale:: fooas)3/    -              -            -             -           1.000        2,B00         4,100         5,200         6.400        8,400         9,600        11,000
1l Pr-  I ite 4 oedao "He-d Oerelorae.
TI At 15 kg se-t/acite  UVt;, Used to ERR (A..e.  1, Tsble 5).
}t Pros lle I (cws) c r "H-ed D-elopaw-c" ditided by hioe I.
Bi 8efar-  project bh-nfits:  100 1/-oa; With peJ.eco be-efits free F4:  57. i-cre-eet eo.h year over pre-toc  *aooct up to 140 It-oe/ca.
Used ic ERR (A-er  1, Table 5).



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projection. of Costs for Financial and Eoono,it Analysis
(USS '080, Coostant 1980 Tern.)
CATEGORY                      PYOMIP        PY2          PY3           PY4         PY5          PY6           PY7          PY8       PY9-20       TOTALS
CONSTRUCTIONS: TOTAL COST                       2,024         382          _-                                                                            -         2,240
For-ign (65%)                  1,316        248                                            -                                            -         1,456
Local (25%)                      506          96          -             -           _            _             _            _           _           561
Ta. (10%)                        185          38          -             -           -            -             -            -           -           223
VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS, SPARE
PARTS        TOTAL COST                     1.047         621          358           722       1,062          361           645          869         705       14,145
Foreign (93%)                    974        578          333           671         988          336           600          808         656       13,160
Local (7%)                       73          43           25            51          74           25            45           61          49          985
DRUGS AND MINERALS
TOTAL COST 1/                    816      2,048        2,564         3,180       3,180        3,180         3,180        3,180       3,180       59,488
Foreign (100%)                   816      2,048        2,564         3,180       3,180        3,180         3,180        3,180       3,180       59,488
CONTRACT TRANSPORT COSTS FOR YINERALS
TOTAL COST                        75         225         300           375         375          375           375          375         375        6,975
Foreign (60%)                     45        135          180           225         225          225           225          225         225        4,185
Lo al (287)                       21         63           84           105         105          105           105          105         105        1,953
Tao                                9          27           36           45          45           45            45           45          45          837
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS
TOTAL COST                        8i         208         208           208         208          208           208          208         208        4,3
Foreign (50%)                     41        104          104           104         104          104           104          104         104        2.017
Local (35%)                       28         73           73            73          73           73            73           73          73        1,415
Tao (15%)                         12          31          31            51          31           31            31           31          31          601
OTHER OPERATING COSTS
TOTAL COST                       366        483          509           524         524          524           524          524         524       _0,266
Foreign (72%)                    264         348         366           377         377          377           377          377         377        7,387
Local (28%)                      102        135          143           147         147          147           147          147         147        2,879
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TOTAL COST                       628        846          755           659          78           78            78           78          78        3,980
Fornigo (100%)                   628        846          755           659          78           78            78           7B          78        3,980
FELLOWSHI,PS     TOTAL COST                       115          71           56           43          51           51            51           51          51        1,101
Foreign (100%)                   115         71           56            43          51           51            51           51          51        1,101
PURCHASE OF WORK OXEN;
TOTAL COST                        -           42          64           105          -            -             -            -           -           211
Local (100%)                      -          42           64           105          -            -             -            -           -           211
I.  TOTAL COSTS (Unadjusted)
TOTAL                          5,152      4,926        4,814         5,816       5,478        4,777         5,061        5,285       5,121      102,439
Foretgn                       4,199       4,378        4,358         5,259       5,003        4,351         4,615        4,823       4,671       92,774          3i
Local                            747        452          389           481         399          350           370          386         374        8.004          -
Tao                              206          96          67            76          76           76            76           76          76        1,661
II. TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS    TOTAL 17 21         5,006      5,002        4,944         6,014       5,761        4,983         5,299        5,547       5,365      106,630
Foreign (including phy, conti.n)        4,593       4,753        4,729         5,748       5,540       4,790          5,094        5,333       5,158      102,201
Local (includlng phy. coctingenclen)    413           250          215           266         221          193           205          214         207        4,429
1/ ISclude  a11 veterinary input.  The project cos.t  of Table I in the min tent inclode only increm-tal vete-iac-y input..
2/ Used io calcolating the project . eco.o..ic rate of retorn (Tabla 5).  Physical contingencim. as at pars 5.02 have beec applied;  Tones hove been onitted;
and local costs have been adjusted by a conv natic  factor of 0.5 to reflect enchanga rate distortion.



4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
(us$ '000)
Incremental                                        TOTAL        TOTAL          TOTAL
Project       Production (tons) 1/         Economic Benefits-----  ECONOMIC       ECONOMIC          NET
Year          MEAT          MILK          MEAT-2/      MILK 3      BENEFITS        COSTS 4/    BENEFITS
pYO/l            _             _             _             _                        5,006         (5.006)
PY2              _             _             _                                      5.002         (5,002)
PY3              _             _                           -             -           4,944        (4,944)
PY4             725         1,000         1,908         1,053         2,961          6,o14        (3,053)
PY5             788         2,800         2,074         2,948         5,022          5,761           (739)         l
PY6           1,075         4,100         2,829         4,317         7,146          4,983         2,163          I
PY7           1,600         5,200         4,211         5,476         9,687          5,298         4,389
PY8           1,750         6,400         4,606         6,739        11,345          5,547          5,798
PY9           1,786         8,400         4,701         8,845        13,546          5,365         8,181
PYlO          2,675         9,600         7,041        10,109        17,150          5,365        11,785
PY11-20       4,200        11,000        11,054        11,583       222,637          5,365        17,272
1/ Assumed average = 250 kg; 50> yield or 125 kg/carcass (0.125 ton per animal unit) expressed in '000 tons.           'n H
2/ Meat price is based on 100 Sylis/kg and adjusted using SER Sylis 38; economic benefits for meat calculated
at UST2,632/ton.
3/ Milk price is based on 40 Sylis/kg and adjusted using SER Sylis 38; economic benefits for milk are evaluated
at US$1,053/ton.
4/ Refer to Annex I, Table 4 (Category 2).



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
Government Cash Plow 1/
Currency
('000 of)      PYl       PY2         PY3        PY4       TOTAL       PY5        PY6        PY7         pW8       PY9        mY1o
A. PROJECT ASSOCIATED COSTS
Project Costs Excluding Veterinary Products
Foreign                                                  us$        4002      3003        2539      3195        12739     3104        2106       2777        3413      3303        3535
Local    Real Costs                                      US$ (eq.)  876        620         572       755         2823      672         629        713        796        824         882
Local    Taxes                                           uS$         261       131          98       119          609      128         137        146         156       167         179
TOTAL                                                    us$        5139      3754        3209      4069        16171       &7        2872       3636       435-       TM9        7
Costs of Veterinary Products
Incremental (100% Foreign)                               us$        1033      1680         755       963         4431       -           -          -           -         -           -
Replacement (100% Foreign)                               US$          -       1114        2996      4004         8114     5317        5702       6087        6506      6961        7451
TOTAL                                                    US$       TM3        17          37        WY          12545     5317        5702   608            n6-50    6 W           7451
TOTAL COSTS
Foreign                                                  US$        5035      5797        6290      8162        25284     8421        7808       8864        9919     10264       10986     1
Local   Real Costs                                       US$ (eq.)  876        620         572       755         2823      672         629        713        796        824         882    \
Local    Taxes                                           US$ (eq.)  261        131          98       119          609      128         137        146         156       167         179
TOTAL                                                    US$        6172      6548        6960      9073 987126                       8574       97         10871     TIY2!       1f204
TOTAL COSTS BY CURRENCY
Foreign                                                  us$        5035      5797        6290      8162        25284     8421        7808       8864        9919     10264       10986
Local    Real Costs                                      Sylis    16644      11780       10868     14345        53637    12768       11951      13547       15124     15656       16758
Local    Taxes                                           Sylis     4959       2489        1862      2261        11571     2432        2603       2774       2964       3173        3401
B. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
IDA Financing
Disbursements 2/                                         us$        5035      4683        3294      4158        17170       -           -          -           -        -            -
Service Charge 3/                                        US$          19        55          85       113          272      129         129        129         129      129          129
Net IDA Financing                                        us$        5016      4628        3209      4045        T6898      (129)       (129)      (129)      ()    (129)           (l29)
Revenues from Herdsmen 4/
Drugs and Medicaments                                    Sylis    12635      37905       50540     63175       164255    94760      104236    114660      126126   138738        152612
Mineral Salts                                            Sylis      8820     26362       35084     43904       114170    65856       72442      79286       87655    96420       106062
TOTAL                                                    Sylis    21455      64267       85624    107079       278425   176066      176678    1           213781   235158        258674
C, NET REVENUES (DEFICITS) BY CURRENCY
Foreign Currencies                                       us$         (19)    (1169)      (3081)    (4117)       (8386)   (8550)      (7937)    (8993)    (10048)  (10393)        (11115)
Local Currency                                           Syli       4811     52487       74756     92734       224788   147848      164727    180799       198657   219502       241916
NET REVENUES (DEFICITS) IN US$ EQUIVALENT 5/                US$         234       1593        854        764        3445      (769)       733        523         408     1160         1617
D. Cumulative Net Revenues (Deficits) in US$ Equivalent        US$         234       1827       2681       3445        3445      2676       3409       3932        4340     5500         7117
1/ In current terms throughout except for Revenues from Herdsmen which are held constant through PY4.  In PY5 revenues received from herdsmen are increased by 50% to reflect
inflation from PYl to PY5. Subsequently, herdsman revenues are increased by 7% per annum. All price increase assumptions as at para 5.02.
2/ Disbursements assumed in line with foreign exchange expenditures incurred;  approximately correct due to preponderance of procedure III disbursements.
3/ 0.75% of disbursed amount.
4/ 95% and 98% respectively for drugs/medicaments and mineral salts to account for losses (para 5.14).
3/ Sylis converted at sylis 19:US$.



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beneficiaries Cash Flow
(Sylis Million, Constant 1980 Terms)
PYI          PY2           PY3          PY4           PY5          PY6           PY7           PY8           PY9         PY10         PYlI-20
1. CASH OUTFLOW 1/
Veterinary Products 2/                              13.3         39.9          53.2         66.5          66.5          66.5         66.5          66.5          66.5          66.5         66.5
Mineral Salts 3/                                     9.0         26.9          35.8         44.8          44.8          44.8         44.8          44.8          44.8          44.8         44.8
TOTAL                                               22.3         66.8          89.0        111.3         111.3         111.7         111.3        I11.3         1711.3          T3          11.
2. CASH INFLOW
Meat:  With Project 4/                           1378          1378          1378         1450          1460         1485          1538          1552          1556          1645         1798
Meat:  Without Project                           1378          1378          1378         1378          1378         1378          1378          1378          1378         1378          1378
Meat:  Incremental                                  -            -             -             72           82           107          160           174           178           267          420
3. Net Incremental Meat Inflow/Outflow 5/
Annual                                             (22.3)       (66.8)        (89.0)        (39.3)       (29.3)         (4.3)         48.7         62.7          66.7         155.7         308.7
Cumulative                                         (22.3)       (89.1)       (178.1)      (217.4)       (246.7)       (251.0)      (202.3)       (139.6)        (72.9)         82.8        391.5
4. value of Incremental Milk 6/
Annual                                               -            -             -           40           112           164          208           256           336           384          440
Cumulative                                           -            -             -           40           152           316          524           780          1116         1500          1940
5. NET INCREMENTAL INFLOW/OUTFLOW (3 + 4)
Annual                                             (22.3)       (66.8)        (89.0)          0.7         82.7         159.7         256.7        318.7         402.7         539.7         748.7
Cumulative                                         (22.3)       (89.1)       (178.1)      (177.4)        (94.7)         65.0        321.7         640.4        1043.1        1582.8       2331.5
1/ A.U's covered assumed at PYI 70,000; PY2 210,000; PY3 280,000; PY4 350,000.
2| On basis of 20 sylis per treatment except for spraying against external parasites at 10 sylis per spray.  Average of 3.5 treatments and 12 sprays per annum per "complete" treatment
equals 190 xylis per "complete" A.U. treatment.
3/ 15 kg per A.U. covered at 50% above cost price of US$0.30/kg. Amounts to US$0.45/kg or (converting at 19 sylis: US$) sylis 128 per A.U.
4/ Output valued at estimated parallel market prices of sylis 100/kg carcass meat (para 6,07). The minor influence of the official market (para 6.04) is not considered here.
5/ Rate of Return (excluding benefits from milk and draft oxen) is 58%.
6/ Milk valued at 40 sylis/litre.
- rr



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PILOT CREDIT PROGRAM
Cash Flow Projection for 3 ha Farm
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         Year 6        Year 7         Year 8        Year 9         Years 10-19         Year 20
A. INFLOW AND OUTFLOW EXCLUSIVE OF FINANCING
INFLOW
Sales of Animals 1/                                   -            -             -              -           10,500           -             -              -            9,000             9,000           55,000 2/
From Use of Oxen Team 3/                           12,500        12,500        12,500         12,500        12,500         12,500        12,500        12,500         12,500            12,500           12,500
1. TOTAL INFLOWS:                                      12,500       12,500         12,500        12,500        23,000         12,500        12,500         12,500        21,500            21,500           67,500
OUTFLOW
Investment 4/                                      40,000          -             -              -             -              -             -              -             -                 -                -
Veterinary Products 5/                                 750        1,000         1,000          1,250         1,000          1,250         1,500          1,750         1,750             1,750            1,750
Maintenance of Equipment 6/                          1,500        1,500         1,500          1,500         1,500          1,500                        1,500         1,500             1,500            1,500
2. TOTAL OUTFLOW:                                      42,250        2,500          2,500         2,750         2,500          2,750         3,000          3,250         3,250              3,250           3,250
3. NET INFLOW/OUTFLOW Before Financing                (30,000)      10,000        10,000          9,750        20,500          9,750         9,500          9,250        18,250            18,250           64,250
4. Cumulative Inflow/Outflow Before Financing         (30,000)    (20,000)        (10,000)         (250)       (20,250)       30,000        39,500         48,750        67,000           249,500          313,750
B. FINANCING
Provision of Credit                                 32,000
Debt Service Charges 7/                               -          (8,410)       (8,410)        (8,410)       (8,410)        (8,410)       (8,410)
Net Financing                                       32,000       (8,410)        (8,410)       (8,410)       (8,410)        (8,410)       (8,410)          -             -                 -                -
C. NET INFLOW/OUTFLOW with Financing                      2,000         1,590         1,590         1,340         12,090         1,340          1,090         9,250         18,250            18,250           64,250
D. CUMULATIVE INFLOW/OUTFLOW with Financing               2,000         3,590         5,180         6,520         18,610        19,950         21,040        30,290         48,540           231,040         295,290
1/ The results are based on herd projection sales in Table B2 and on an overall mortality rate of 12%.
The prices per animal sale are as follows:  Culled oxen at Sylis 12,000; culled cows at Sylis 10,000; and heifers at Sylis 6,000.
2/ This represents the residual value of the herd:  2 oxen at Sylis 12,000 = 24,000
2 cows at Sylis 10,000 = 20,000
1 heifer (1-2 years)   =4,000
I oxen (2-3 years)       =  6,000
I calf                   =  1,000                                                                                                                                  c
55,000
3/ Represents revenue from the hiring of farmer oxen teams to other farmers or the value of farmer substitution of hired oxen for manual cultivation.  Valued at 2,500 sylia/ha
(the mrket price currently obtainable for hire of work oxen services) assuming 3 ha on own farm and 2 ha of hired out services.
4/ Herd Purchases = 2 oxen (4 yrs old) at Sylis 12,000 =   24,000
1 heifer (3 yrs old) at Sylis 6,000 = 6,000
Equipment = Plough, yolk and chains                        = 10,000
Total investment for a 3 ha farm                              40,000
5/ Veterinary Products at Sylis 250 per head; cost estimated on herd projection in Table B2.
6/ Replacement of equipment at 15% of investment cost.
7/ Annuitized repayments over six years at 8% interest.  Annuity calculated on credit amount (sylis 32,000) plus 12% mark-up to provide a margin as
insurance against incomplete repayments due to cattle deaths etc.   Repayment follows one year of grace during which the amount to be repaid is
capitalized at 8%.



- 55 -                                 ANNEX 2
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Contents of Project File
A. Cost Tables
1.  Summary of Project Costs
2. DGE and BDE Headquaters
3. Vaccine Production and Diagnostic Laboratory
4. Drugs, Medicaments and Mineral Salts
5. Reinforcement of regional Livestock Services - Main Table
Supporting Table 1: DREP Equipment Costs
Supporting Table 2: Cost of Materials
6. Vaccination Campaign, Materials and Equipment
7. Vaccination Campaign, Operating Costs
8. Pilot Credit Scheme
9. Recycling Training Center
10. Fellowship Program
11. Teclnical Assistance
B. Supporting Tables
B.1 Basic Parameters of Regional Services
B.2   PiLot Credit Program - Herd Projection, Purchase and Sales over 20
years
B.3   Pilot Credit Program - BNDA Cash Flow
B.4   Summary of Economic Analyses
B.5   Summary of Project Base Costs by Category
B.6   Project Costs with Physical and Price Contingencies
B.7   Summary of Estimated Meat, Milk and Protein Production
C. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Staff
D. Supporting Documentation I/
1.    Project Preparation Report (West Africa Regional Missicin, World Bank)
2.    Sector Analysis and Identification Report (Latinoconsult)
1/ Available on Request



- 56 -                                        ANNEX 2
Figure 1
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTER
OF LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES
t           .               .                     P~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELLOWSHIP.
(Technical advice,                    l                                    FLOGSHI
studies, monitoring)                                                 -I F PROGRAM
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF LIVESTOCK (DGE)
(Planning and Research
Office; BDE)             (Central Directorate)
Director            Director general of livestock
Economist          "    Livestock specialist .*
FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICES
Director
Director of Financey:
Supplies     Procure-  Chief    Personnel
and stores   ment       Accoun,-  officer
officer      officer   tant
CREDIT             VACCINATION         DIAGNOSTIC AND            REGIONAL           rRAINING CENTER
PROGRAM               PROGRAM          VACCINE PRODUC-           LIVESTOCK             Director
TION LABORATORY          SERVICES              Training
Credit Program                                   (IRBANC)                                   specialist+-
officer                                    Director                                    Training and
Veterinary                                    extension
specialist'4L                               specialist*
VACCINATION             REGIONS
CAMPAIGN                (DREPS)
EAST                   EAST
Coordinator
VACCINATION              REGIONS
|  CAMPAIGN   - - --     (DREPS)                      Notes
7   WEST    1- ~ - - :  WEST
| Coordinatorg       l             |                 ($r) Technical assistance
staff
(- ) Line responsibilities



GO INEA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTIVrrY                                       PROJECT YEAR:                              FYO                   PYI                   PY2                  PY3                  PY4
Construction Program:
Architectural Design and Preparation Bidding Documents,
Tendering, Evaluation and Contract Awards
Construction
Strengthening DGE and BDE                                                                                                                              __     .                      _-
Reinforcement Vaccine Production and Diagnostic Lab.                                                                      __________
Upgrading Regional Livestock Services
(Percentage of National Herd Treated)                                                               (1)                    (5)                 (15)                  (20)                 (25)              n
Vaccine Campaign East                                                                                                                                                                                           4
Vaccine Campaign West                                                                                                     ____
Recycling Training Program                                                                                                                                                           _
Training Fellowship Program
Credit Program
Technical Assistance
Livestock Specialist (DGE)
Administration/Finance Officer (DGE)                                                                                        _
Economist BDE
Veterinary Specialist (Kindia Laboratory)                                                                                              ___
Livestock/TraininR Specialist (Kindia Training Center~                                                                                  _________
Livestock Specialist (Training, Extension,Crfedit and N'ama Export)                                                                _
Overlap With Project Related UNDP Activities                                                                                                                                                                     I
(a) Vaccine Production (GUI/78/013)                                                                                               . _
(b) Vaccine Campaign East (CiI/78/012)                                                                          _                     .






IBRD 14977
MA U RITAA H tA                                                                                                                                                                                   MRCH -9,
s ~ W E:- G  A' L
NEGAL       MALI                                                                                                                                                                       P
VON,"~~K
BISS      AU                                                           Lel,o  c                 T  OL      pu.-yR U R Xu  .  Y, ,u    HX'               P7.                                f 
SI ERRA L    E1<- _j __IVr   r2N ;<QR  m       
~~  GUINEA~~GUNE
f t 'orl ti     Wf   'i   -l;- ---t ' S   -                           PfiI" '4o  ones -Wes                              - --  4                   tr4I   iFodqnisjn  o''v t \  r9JrV
[ ~~~~~~G U  I INE A                                             [X.--> 8) alubiupXvVtu5v9
tiVW b                                                                                                                       -,  q  (JrT_
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    _l :,e
L        Livestock Development Project Locations                                              00 4
*      Regional Livestock Service Centers (DREP's)            hoII            w9y 
REGION   Natural Regions                                                     Inf 4  jer af9r,nl AfiPort    i                                                   K +T  PF    0
Rice Development Pilot Project Area                          f4gt4?fl SerVLedS  Airp p rt                                  ,'k-
*      Research Stations (Rice Development Project)             Y          Rivers-                rts i                                                       Moveri'
* Daboya Pineapple Project                                                 r-erntionol B   d)
Forest Region                                                                                        .s
- f   -      - Savannah to Bush Savannah                                                   0 ILP40 ME060 SP   t
Bush to Tree Savannah                                         ,0
Fouta Djalon (hilly,mainly forested, upland plateau)     ::         ti i   2   0    S I                  , L                                                   N                                    o
[|II,,,,   ;,Light Forest to Tree Savannah                                                                                                                                                                     >
Li       hgF Mangrove Swamprs 
mis e~Ph 0avoiivop-M bYti W*4riM -nsM otffevs&)f-bdo444e
Light Forest with Swampy Areas                                                                       o rt,rvfnin vruhot: 4hivro erAd Tsnmntnonird
-                                                          bvvnbyoiis vhvev, v~~~~ Shiv v,endv mm v~~~1r. 5v5 r~~mbp ,~f~~Jv'Wo,Memvk vply,ie
oSm,vsno .vv,v iy      innS



