FFIIAL'
OFFICA            CREDIT NUMBER 1063 GUI
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     ;                         , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1063 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AC.IEMENT, dated --7 /1_        K?/         , 1980, between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S AEPUBLIC OF GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(B) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the prepa-
ration of the Project, the Association, pursuant to an exchange of
letters between the Borrower and the Association, dated March 11,
1980, and March 20, 1980, respectively has granted to the Borrower
an advance (hereinafter called the Advance) in various currencies
equivalent to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEP" means Ministere de 1' Elevage et de la Peche,
the Borrower's Ministry responsible for livestock and fisheries;


﻿-2-
(b) "DGE" means the Borrower's Direction G6n6rale de
1'Elevage, a general directorate responsible for livestock within
the Borrower's Ministry responsible for livestock and fisheries;
(c) "DREPs" means the Directions Rfgionales de 1' Elevage
et de la P6che, the regional livestock services within DGE,
respectively, responsible for carrying out field livestock activi-
ties in each of the Borrower's administrative regions;
(d) "BGCE" means    the Borrower's Banque Guinfenne du
Commerce Ext6rieur, a financial corporation established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 176/PRG of June 2,
1961;
(e) "BNDA" means the Borrower's Banque Nationale de Dfvelop-
pement Agricole, a financial corporation established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 176/PRG of June 2,
1961 and "BNDA Account" means the account to be opened pursuant to
the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(f) "FERF-account" means the account opened by the Borrower
in BGCE in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 of this
Agreement;
(g) "IRBANC" means the Borrower's central vaccine production
and diagnostic laboratory at the Institut N&nfkhaly Condetto
Camara in Kindia;
(h) "UNDP Project GUI/78/012" means the Project described in
Project Document GUI/78/012, as agreed to between the Borrower and
United Nations Development Program in 1078 for the purpose of,
inter alia, conducting a three year vaccination program against
major cattle health hazards;
(i) "UNDP Project GUI/78/013" means the Project described in
Project Document GUI/78/013, as agreed to between the Borrower and
the United Nations Development Program in 1978, for the purpose
of, inter alia, strengthening during a three year period the
IRBANC laboratory;
(j) "BDE" means Bureau d'Etudes a research and planning
office within MEP to be strengthened pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement; and
(k) "Syli" means the currency unit of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referre.1 to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR13,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa.tion shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
sErvices required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Associa-
tion shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself on
behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the accrued
service charges and other charges, if any, thereon, of the Ad-
vance. Any amount of the-Advance remaining unwithdrawn shall
automatically be cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain a
FERF-account in BGCE and shall cause BGCE to credit and debit the
FERF account in accordance with the following provisions:
(i) there shall be credited to the FERF-account:
(A) such amounts as shall from time to time be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the FERF-account by the Association pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section; and (B) such amounts
as shall be deposited by the Borrower in the
FERF-account in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (d) of this Section; and
(ii) amounts deposited in the FERF-account pursuant
to sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of this
Section shall be used only to make payments
for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the
Credit Account under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)


﻿-4-
and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Association shall, promptly
after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the FERF-account an initial amount in foreign-currency
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the FERF-account such amounts as shall be required
to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out of the FERF-
account for expenditures for the Project eligible for financing
under the Development Credit Agreement under Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount of any
such deposit, together with any amount on deposit in the, FERF-
account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $100,000.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no further deposit shall
be made to the FERF-account and no other withdrawal shall ba made
from the Credit Account when the total amount theretofore with-
drawn from the Credit Account pursuant to paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and paragraph (b) of this Section,
together with the amount of any special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Con-
ditions, shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of
$2,500,000.
(d) If the Association shall have determined that payments
have been made by the Borrower out of the FERF-account for ex-
penditures not eligible for withdrawal from the Credit Account,
the Borrower shall, upon notice from the Association, deposit in
the FERF-account an amount equal to the amount of such payments.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the.proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-i:urths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on t.e principal 4mount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1990, and ending June 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of Merica
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions..
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MEP with due diligence and efficiency and ih conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, veterinary and live-
stock practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts, as speci-
fied in Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and consultants
all of whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment, including their terms of reference, shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall strengthen BDE which shall
have the responsibility, within MEP, inter alia, for: (i) advising
the Borrower on general planning issues in the livestock sector;
(ii) coordination and cooperation with other ministries in
respect.of (A) preparation of project and investment proposals in
the livestock sector and (B) sectoral studies, including studies


﻿-6-
on marketing and pricing policies and education, recruitment and
manpower requirements; and (iii) monitoring of, evaluation of and
reporting on ongoing operations in the livestock sector.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause DGE and BDE to be
managed at all times by qualified and experienced Directors and to
fill the positions set forth in Annex B to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement at all times with qualified and experienced personnel.
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
generality of the provisions set forth in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall, in carrying out Part B.2 of the
Project: (i) through the DREP's, open not later than January 1,
1981 and thereafter maintain, an account with BNDA (the BNDA-
Account) and deposit in said BNDA-Account the payments made to the
DREP's for the sale of veterinary products and for the veterinary
treatments under Part B.2 of the Project; (ii) convert into
foreign exchange, as and when needed, at the official rate of
exchange, the funds deposited in the BNDA-Account and needed to
procure additional quantities of veterinary products over and
above the quantities procured with the proceeds of the Credit to
carry out Part B.2 of the Project; and (iii) provide, in case the
payments made by the herdsmen are not sufficient, additional funds
to replenish such supplies of veterinary products.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) in order to simplify its
accounting procedures, standardize nationwide the charges for the
products and treatments referred to in Section 3.05 (a) above;
(ii) in consultation with the Association, set such charges at
levels which will be adequate to (A) generate funds to recover the
costs incurred by the Borrower for the purchase, transport and
storage of veterinary products and for the materials used for
ireterinary treatments, including allowance for free demonstra-
tions, breakage and other losses, (B) permit a margin to compen-
sate for loss of revenues by the Government due to the phasing out
of the vaccination tax as set forth in Section 3.12 of this
Agreement (such charges shall take into account the willingness
and ability of the herdsmen to pay for such veterinary products
and treatments); and (iii) discuss annually such charges and any
adjustments thereof with the Association and consult the Associa-
tion prior to making any changes to such charges.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
not later than October 31, 1981, and thereafter not later than
October 31 in each succeeding year until the completion of the


