Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15289
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2742-PNG)
December 29, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.00 = K 1.00
(As of December 1985)
K1.16 = US$1.00
(As of December 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (Km) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
(Metric System)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         Annual Average Daily Traffic
AJDAB        Australian Intemational Development Assistance Bureau
AUSAID       Australian Agency for Intemational Development
DCA          Department of Civil Aviation
DOT          Department of Transport
DOW          Department of Works
ERR          Economic Rate of Retum
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
TIP          Transport Improvement Project
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
RMRP         Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.ii
PART I: TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................................  1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.                                                            3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                  5
D. PROJECT SUsTAiNABiLTY.                                                                7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                                     8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                                9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.                                                                9
H. FUTURE OPERATION.                                                                    10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .10
PART H: STATISTICALANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................                                            12
TABLE 1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .............................................. 12
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK LOANS .............................................. 13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE.                                                              1 4
TABLE 4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................................... 14
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................  , 1 5
TABLE 6:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .................................. 16
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS.                                                                 1 7
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING.                                                            17
TABLE 8:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................                      18
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS.                                                  19
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .19
TABLE 1 1: E    CONOMIC COSTS A ND BENEFrTS ...............................             22
ANNEX B: SECTOR SPECIFIC DATA .,,     25
TABLE 1:  SCHEDULE 1: REVISED ALLOCATION OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE LOAN                    25
TABLE 2A: TOGOBA-IALIBU ROAD SUMMARY OF COST CLAIMED                                    26
TABLE 2B: TOGOBA-IALIBU ROAD DETAILED COST CLAIMED    .              .27
TABLE 2C: EXTENSION OF TIME/VARIATIONS ...................................... 29
TABLE 3:  TOGOBA-IALiBU TURN-OFF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPENDITURES SUMMARY ... 29
TABLE 4:  PROGRAM FOR RESEALING/REGRAVELLING OF AIRSTRIPS, TAXIWAYS AND APRONS ... 30
TABLE 5:  LIST OF CONSULTANT SERVICES ..........................................................  31
TABLE 6:  LIST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING .......................................................... 32
TABLE  7:  JAPANESE  GRANT TRUST FUND  22820 ..........................................................  32
TABLE 8A: REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT BRDGES    .                .33
TABLE 8B: BRIDGES SELECTED BUTINOT FINANCED           ..34
APPENDICES:
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .I
B.   M AP.......................................................................................................................................................
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pe-forrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihhout World Bank authonzation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 2742--PNG)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Improvement Project
in the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for which Loan No. 2742-PNG in the amount of
US$45.5 million was approved on July 22, 1986 and made effective on July 14, 1987.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994 instead of the original closing date of December
31, 1991. Apart from some US$2.68 million canceled for misprocurement, as per IBRD Guidelines
for Procurement, the loan was fully disbursed and final disbursement took place on March 2, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Ephrem Asebe, Consultant, EA31N, Infrastructure Operations
Division of the East Asia & Pacific Region, Country Department III and reviewed by Anupam
Khanna, Division Chief, Infrastructure Operation Division and Richard A. Calkins, Operations
Adviser & Chief, Environmental Unit.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's Supervision mission in November 1994.
It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR and
prepared its own evaluation of the project's execution. Since the borrower's contribution to the ICR is
more than 10 pages, only the main part of its contribution is included in the ICR and the appendix is
placed in the project file.






- ii -
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2742-PNG)
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The Transport Improvement Project (TIP) Loan No. 2742-PNG (US$45.5 million), which is
the subject of this report, was the seventh road transport sector project since assistance to the sector
started in 1970, five years before PNG became independent. Of the six earlier projects in the transport
sector, four were road projects (US$89.0 million) and two were port projects (US$12.7 million). The
road projects mainly focused on improving the Highlands Highway, which provides the Central
Highlands with an efficient and reliable transport connection with the Port of Lae, the major port in the
country. All are completed. However, due to various sociological reasons, including slow land
acquisition and related security problems, and due to lack of detailed engineering, the actual cost of
construction has been higher than the appraisal estimates for the projects.
Project Objectives
ui.    The objectives of the TIP were to: (a) irnprove land transport through the reconstruction,
upgrading and maintenance of national roads, and the reduction of vehicle operating costs; (b) enhance
air transport through ground equipment replacement, improvement of safety standards and resealing
and regravelling of air strips, taxiways and aprons; (c) improve efficiency of road maintenance through
the provision of road maintenance equipment and materials; and (d) strengthen the sector institutions
and improve of the domestic construction industry through provision of technical advisory services and
training of local staff
ini.    Project Components: The project intended for implementation during a period of five years
consisted of: (a) civil works for: (i) reconstruction and upgrading of three national road sections
totaling about 80 km of which the Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off road section (50 km) was the most
important; (ii) rehabilitation and replacement of about 50 bridges totaling about 1,100 linear meters;
(iii) regravelling of about 500 km of national gravel roads; and (iv) resealing or regravelling of runways,
taxiways and aprons at 16 airports; (b) procurement of equipment and material including: (i) provision
of road construction and maintenance equipment and materials; and (ii) replacement of navigational,
meteorological and communication equipment at 14 national airports; (c) consultant services for
economic and engineering studies and construction supervision; and (d) technical assistance to aid
DOT, DOW, and DCA in (i) implementing new transport policy; (ii) establishing gravel pit inventory,
(iii) researching possible uses for coronous materials for road maintenance; (iv) developing the
domestic construction industry; and (v) training of local staff and institution building.



- Ill -
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    The TIP responded well to the country's development program  (1986-1990) and the
government priorities in the transport sector. The project objectives were clear and provided the
specific targets to be achieved over the five-year period.
v.    To facilitate timely implementation of the project, the Bank sought and reached agreements,
among other things, on: (a) review of design standards and use of most economical standards; (b)
including only roads and bridges with an ERR of 12% or higher; (c) timely acquisition of right-of-way
for each road section and all bridges, where possible prior to invitation for bids or at the latest prior to
awarding construction contracts; and (d) final acceptance of the Kaupena-Ialibu upgrading, to be
subject to receipt of bids and minimum estimate of 1 1% economic rate of return.
vi.    From the borrower's implementation capacity viewpoint, the project was considered rather
complex and required at the outset the establishment of a project coordinator office: (i) to ensure
necessary cooperation between several ministries (ii) to monitor the progress of implementation,
procurement, project costs and expenditures (iii) to prepare progress reports for regular submission to
the implementing agencies and the Bank. Moreover, detailed designs were not available at appraisal
and in-house design for Togoba-Ialibu Turn-off road section proved initially problematic.
vii.   The project outcome overall was deficient. The upgrading of Togoba-Ialibu Turn-off road
(50km), a section of the country's most important highway connecting the premier port with the
highlands provinces, was contracted to a foreign firm and became a major problem. Design, which was
done in house (DOW) needed some serious corrections. Implementation lasted nearly five years (242
weeks, from Aug. 1990 to April 1995 in stead of the planned 120 weeks), with 18% in financial terms
still to be completed by force account when the contractor demobilized for the third time. The
contractor demobilized and left site twice with agreement of the supervising consultant mainly due to
problems of security and problems with the land owners with respect to right-of ways and access to
quarry. These factors lead to serious cost escalation and eventual withdrawal of the Bank funding of
this project item.
viii.   The contractor continuously submitted claims of different sort: (extension of time due to rain
delays, law and order problems, damage to pr'-perty, difficult soil conditions, devaluation, cost of
hiring a consultant to process his claims, etc.). Nevertheless, in spite of repeated request from the
Bank, there is no evidence in the monthly reports of the supervising engineer that he has been
counteracting these claims, nor tha. he provided the Government of PNG such defense materials to
make counter claim or handle the problem on its own. The Bank recognized that the escalating cost of
the Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off road section was substantially eroding the economic rate of return and
made repeated unsuccessful efforts, to convince the Government to lower the design standards on the
last 20.6 km section of the road. However, the Government decided to go ahead with construction at
the original design standards and the Bank stopped disbursements for the project item as of December
31, 1993. As of January 1, 1994, the time the Bank withdrew funding, some 20.6 km remained to be
completed and some US$19.92 million had been disbursed for the subproject which had an appraisal
cost of US$8.7 million and was contracted for US$13.5 million.



- iv -
ix.    The Government decided to continue and fund 100% of work remaining. By April 29, 1995,
when the contractor finally unilaterally withdrew, the revised approved cost for Togoba-Ialibu was
K39.083 million. On October 30, 1995 the parties mutually agreed to terminate the contract. The
contractor's total claim for about 46.5 km of work completed was assessed as K40.28 million. The
remaining 3.5 km to be completed by force account was estimated to cost K2.8 million. From an
appraisal base cost estimate of K174,000 per km, the cost hdd escalated to K866,000 per km for the
46.5 km done by the contractor. The estimated force account cost is K714,000 per km for the last 3.5
km.
x.    The project still achieved its other objectives partially. The physical accomplishment of the
targets for regravelling national roads was exceeded and implementation was generally on schedule
and within Budget. A total of 835 km was regravelled or resealed compared to 500 km planned at
appraisal. Similarly most of the resealing and regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons were
substantially completed. However, resealing of runways of Jackson Airport was not financed because
of misprocurement " as defined in the Bank's Guidelines", aiid US$2.68 million of the loan was
canceled; but the works were financed with Govemment funds.
xi.    At the request of the Government, some bridges initially scheduled to be financed under Loan
2742 were financed under Loan 2265. Both Loan 2742 and Loan 2265 supported a bridge
rehabilitation program. When there was an undisbursed balance in Loan 2265 at the closing date,
some of those bridges intended to be financed under Loan 2742-PNG were financed by Loan 2265.
With respect to the planned rehabilitation and replacement of the 50 bridges, 34 bridges were started
of which 27 were known to be completed and remaining 7 were started using force account. The 16
which were not started included 10 bridges and 6 river crossings. Of the 27 bridges which were
completed 17 were financed from Loan 2265 which had undisbursed funds at the closing date and
only 7 were financed from loan 2742. The remaining 3 bridges were financed by force account.
(annex B: tables 8a & 8b). Procurement of road maintenance equipment, originally scheduled under
this loan was also partially financed from  Loan 2265-PNG.  The need for equipment was
substantially reduced by increased use of contractors for implementation.
xii.   The institutional objectives of the project were only partially achieved. The International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) study made recommendations on the establishment of a statutory
authority provisionally described as the Civil Aviation .wthority of Papua New Guinea, but this was
not implemented; however, implementation on an updated basis is again being considered by the new
DOW to which DCA now belong Two members of DOT staff were sent to study for Master's
Degree in Australian Universities. Other short term trainings were provided for DOW and DCA
staff. The first phase of the assistance to the domestic construction industry was completed. All the
feasibility studies programmed under the project were also completed by consultants mostly on time
and within budget. Road maintenance budgeting and organization were not satisfactory, but will be
addressed under the proposed RMRP (para. xvii)
xiii.  Sustainability of the project is uncertain. The Government has consistently under-spent on
maintenance, although belatedly has started addressing the issue in a follow-up project (RMRP para
xvii). Benefits from cost savings of vehicle operators and the higher safety standard attained as a



- v -
of execution of the upgrading, regravelling and resealing of national roads, airstrips, taxiways and
aprons will, therefore, depend on availability of sufficient funds and effective utilization.
xiv.   The Bank's overall performance in the identification, appraisal and supervision phase of the
project is considered satisfactory but its preparation assistance deficient.(paras. 30-33). In the latter
case, more thought should have been given to proper engineering and more assistance to supplement
the borrowers institutional weakness.
xv.   The borrower overall performance is rated to be deficient. The key factors that affected its
project implementation were: unavailability of detailed design at appraisal, the unending problems of
land acquisition and law and order, problem with quarry material, cost escalation, weak project
management and lack of qualified staff resulting in slow institutional responses during project
implementation. These factors were pronounced especially with respect to the Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off
road section.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
xvi.   The overall assessment of the outcome of the project could have been satisfactory if the
unfortunate poor implementation of the Togoba-Ialibu road section (ERR of 4.8%) had not
overshadowed what the rest of the project.
xvii.  The future operation of the project is mainly based on the follow-on projects being undertaken
at the appropriate time with appropriate level of funds. The Bank is considering a Road Maintenance &
Rehabilitation Project (RMRP) is trying to preserve the investments made under the project. The
Government has undertaken an analysis of the maintenance needs of the whole road network with the
Bank's Highway Design & Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) and of the bridges with a similar
New Zealand Model. The required maintenance and rehabilitation budget will be defined on the basis
of these studies and the project that will result from it is expected to be financed by the Bank in
association other donors thus enhancing the project's sustainability.
xviii.  Several lessons can be drawn from the operational experience of TIP for applications in the
design and implementation of future projects in Papua New Guinea transport sector.
a) Project Design versus implementation capability: The project design has proved to be
far more complex than the implementing agency was capable of handling (para.7).
b) In-house Design of Major Project: Experience showed that it was an error of judgment
to allow design of a major project in house, especially when it has to be executed by a
foreign contractor (para. 35).
c) Liability of contractors: In the future the liability period for contractors for road- and bridge
construction should cover at least a year (para 34).



- vi -
d) Financial Control & Cost Management: The Government should re-examine its
financial and cost management system and establish mechanisms for control of cost
overruns (para. 22).
e) Road network management: In view of the rapidly deteriorating condition of PNG's
road network from lack of adequate maintenance, there is an urgent need to operationalize
the proposed Road Maintenance Rehabilitation Project. Furthermore, the proposed project
should be designed to help improve the statistical base for road traffic, vehicle operating
and road maintenance costs (para. 28).
f) Training of key managerial staff: Future Bank loans to the transport sector should
continue to ensure sufficient resources to train staff at all levels, but a special effort should
be made to train top managers to handle contract negotiation and daily routine of contract
management. That aspect of training was not sufficiently emphasized in the past (paras. 25,
36).
g) Land rights: Resources should be dedicated to increase citizens awareness of the benefits
of cooperation of road network development through their land because of increasing land
values resulting from it. An incentive system, which would prompt land-owners to
cooperate willingly must be devised (para. 26).
h) Security contingency: In the future road projects in PNG should include special security
contingency provisions to guarantee the risks associated with problems of law and order
(para. 23).






TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN. 2742-PNG)
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I1.    Prior projects: The Transport Improvement Project (TIP) Loan No. 2742-PNG (US$45.5 miflion),
which is the subject of this report, was the seventh project in the road transport sector since assistance to the
sector started in 1970, five years before Papua New Guinea (PNG) became independent. Of the six earlier
projects in the transport sector, four were road projects (US$89.0 million) and two were port projects
(US$12.7 million). They focused mainly on improving the Highlands Highways, which provided the Central
Highlands with an efficient and reliable transport connection with the Port of Lae, the major port in the
country. All of these projects are completed. However, due to various sociological reasons, including slow
land acquisition and related security problems, and due to lack of detailed engineering, the actual costs for the
projects were generally higher than the expected cost at appraisal.
2.    The Performance Audit Report (PAR) for the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project and the
Third Highway Project took issue with the economic and nrsk analyses of the Project Completion Report
(PCR) and re-rated the two projects as unsatisfactory overall, their institutional impact paruial and their
sustainability unlikely. The Road Improvement Project (Ln.2265-PNG) also experienced a 62% cost
overrun in the civil work component of the project, largely due to unexpected security problems, which
raised cost of materials and with it contractors' claims. Both sections of the Highlands Highway which were
rehabilitated under that project (Kudjp-Minj and Tambul-Togoba), had only slightly lower post completion
ERRs of 19.6% and 8% that appraisal ERR estimates of 21.2% and 12.2%, respectively because of cost
overrun.
3.    T he Special Intervention Project (Loan 3289-PNG) accompanying the Structural Adjustment Loan
is the only infrastructure sector project that is still ongoing and expected to close by the end of 1996. A Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study and a Bridge Management Study are being financed under the
Japanese Grant Trust Fund (No. 22820) for which the Bank is the executing agency under Loan 2742-PNG.
These studies are to serve as a basis for the next Bank operation in the subsector, the proposed Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project ( RMRP).
4.    Project Objectives: As stated in the SAR the objectives of TIP were to: (a) improve land transport
through the reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of national roads, and to reduce vehicle operating
costs; (b) enhance air transport through ground equipment replacement, improvement of safety standards
and resealing and regravelling of air strips, taxiways and aprons; (c) improve efficiency of road maintenance
through the provision of road maintenance equipment and materials; and (d) strengthen the sector institutions
and improve the domestic construction industry through provision of technical advisory services and training
of local staff



- 2 -
5.    Project Components: The project components intended for implementation during a period of
five years consisted of: (a) civil works for: (i) reconstruction and upgrading of three national road sections
totaling about 80 km of which the Togoba-Ialibu Tum-Off road section (50 km) was the most important;
(ii) rehabilitation and replacement of about 50 mostly small bridges, totaling about 1,100 linear meters; (iii)
regravelling of about 500 km of national gravel roads; and (iv) resealing or regravelling of runways,
taxiways and aprons at 16 airports; (b) procurement of equipment and material including: (i) provision of
road construction and maintenance equipment and materials; and (ii) replacement of navigational,
meteorological and communication equipment at 14 national airports; (c) consultant services for economic
and engineering studies and construction supervision; and (d) technical assistance to aid the Departments of
Transport (DOT), Work (DOW), and Civil Aviation (DCA) in (i) implementing a new transport policy; (ii)
establishing gravel pit inventory, (iii) researching possible uses for coronous materials for road
maintenance; (iv) developing the domestic construction industry; and (v) institution building and training
of local staff.
6.    During negotiation the Bank sought and reached agreements to facilitate timely implementation of
the project. Some of the agreements were easily complied with. These included: annual review of
investment and maintenance programs for roads and airports; and listings of roads to be regravelled and
bridges to be rehabilitated and replaced during the first year with the second, third and fourth year civil
works programs to be fumished to the Bank for comments by September 30 of each year; and selection
criteria for staff to be trained to be submitted early in the project phase. Other agreements proved
problematic during implementation. These included criteria which required: that only roads and bridges
with an ERR of 12% or higher be included for financing under the project; final acceptance of the
Kaupena-Ialibu road section for upgrading would be subject to receipt of bids and minimum 11% ERR for
that section. Also included were continuous review of design standards and use of most economical
standards; and last but not least, right-of-way for each road section and each bridge should be arranged
prior to invitation of bids but not later than award of construction contracts.
7.     Evaluation of Objectives. The project was in response to the country's 1986-1990 development
program and tried to respond to the program's priorities. The project objectives were clear and the
components provided specific targets to be achieved over the five year period. The design of the project
anticipated, though to a much lesser degree than actually eventuated, most of the critical obstacles that later
manifested themselves and caused delays and cost escalation. It also made provisions to reduce their
impact. However, the project was rather complex for the borrower's implementation capacity and required
from the outset a project coordinator (consultant) to ensure necessary cooperation of several ministries: the
DOW, DOT, and DCA. Later the Department of Commerce and Industry (DCI) was made responsible for
the execution of the domestic construction industry component of the project. The coordinator was to
monitor the progress of implementation, procurement, project costs and expenditures and to prepare
progress reports for regular submission to the implementing agencies and the Bank.
8.    Both Loan No. 2742 and Loan No. 2265 supported bridge rehabilitation programs. Recognizing
that there would be undisbursed balance in Loan No. 2265 at the closing date, the Govemment requested
that all bridge works completed by the closing date of Loan 2265 PNG be transferred to the loan, thus
leaving more money available for further bridge work under Loan 2742-PNG, which were to remain open
for three more years.



B. Achievement of Objectives
9.    Savings in vehicle operating cost as a result of road improvement: Although at high cost to the
economy as a whole, because of the high construction cost, substantial reduction in vehicle operating cost
was achieved. In physical terms, out of a total of 86 km (including 5.4 km extension to Mai-Buvusi road to
Galai-2) of national road sections to be constructed under ICB some 66 km were constructed. About 3.5
km of Togob-Ialibu road which the contractor left uncompleted are to be done by force account according
to the agreement reached between the parties on October 30, 1995. Seventeen kilometers of Alatau-
Gurney road was not constructed because of security problems. The reconstruction of the Mai-Buvusi
road in New Britain Island (12.7 km) was substantially completed under ICB on December 10, 1988, one
month earlier than scheduled. An extension from Buvusi to Galai-2 was then agreed with the Bank.
Actual cost including the extension was K4.65 million while the contract price including the extension was
K3.3 million. Thus, for Mai-Buvusi-Galai-2 average construction cost increased from K165,000 per km to
K242,190 per kmi, about 50%4" higher than of the original estimate.
10.   With respect to Togoba-Ialibu Tum-Off road section (50 km), design problems, violent obstruction
of access to gravel pits and complaints over payments for crops on the right-of-ways by the landowners
caused delays and cost overruns. When the Bank finally realized that the delays and escalating cost of the
Togoba-Ialibu road section were substantially eroding the economic rate of retums it made repeated
unsuccessful efforts to convince the Govemment to lower the design standards on the last 20.6 km section
of the road yet uncompleted. The Govemment decided to go ahead with construction at the original design
standards and as a result the Bank stopped further funding of the construction and supervision consultancy
of Togoba-lalibu as of January 1, 1994, at which time about US$19.92 million of the loan funds had been
spent on this project item which represented some 62% of its revised cost at that time. On April 29, 1995,
because of dispute over arrears of some US$6.6 million, the contractor unilaterally demobilized and
withdrew from the site leaving substantial sections of uncompleted work exposed to the elements: (i) earth
work - 3.5 kmi; (ii) first coat seal - 6.5 km; (iii) second coat seal - 23 km; and road fumiture - 30 km. Cost
claimed by the contractor for the road had risen to K53.37 million and the extension time granted to 142
weeks. On October 30, 1995 the Government and the contractor reached agreement for a total of K40.28
million, which is about K13.05 million above the unilateral claim made by the counter. Out of the K40.28
million claimed only 65% was for actual measured work and the rest 35% includes various claims (Annex
B: Table 2A). The average cost per km may thus have escalated from about K270,000 per km (1990 price)
to K560,000 per km (current prices) for the measured work and K866,000 per km including all claims, if
46.5 km of the road is assumed as completed. The remaining 3.5 km is to completed by force account at an
estimated total cost of K2.5 million or K714,000 per km. The matter has tentatively been settled through
negotiations, but final approval of the National Executive Council has still to be given.
II.   On the other hand, the target for regravelling of national roads was exceeded with lower average
cost per km than at appraisal. A total of 835 km at US$7.9 million was regravelled and sealed compared
with 500 km planned for regravelling at US$5.0 million. With respect to the planned rehabilitation and
replacement of the 50 bridges, 34 bridges were started of which 27 were known to be completed and
remaining 7 were started using force account. The 16 which were not started included 10 bridges and 6
river crossings. Of the 27 bridges which were completed 17 were financed from Loan 2265 which had
undisbursed funds at the closing date and only 7 were financed from Loan 2742. The remaining 3 bridges
were financed by force account. (Annex B: tables 8a & 8b). Procurement of road maintenance equipment
originally scheduled under this loan was also partially financed from Loan 2265-PNG.



- 4 -
12.    Enhancement of air transport safety. The objective of enhancing and improving the safety
standard of civil aviation through resealing and regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons was partially
achieved. Nine of the twelve airports were regravelled/resealed without significant cost increase and the
same was the case for three of the nine planned for improvement of fire stations. Bank disbursement for
the resealing of Jackson Airport, amounting to US$2.68, was canceled due to misprocurement and this
reduced the total available loan to US$ 42.8 million. The Govemment financed the resealing of the airport
while AUSAID financed the procurement of equipment for navigation aid as was foreseen at appraisal.
13.   Improving road maintenance. The objective of improving road maintenance through the
procurement of road maintenance and laboratory equipment and materials was modified and the amount of
procurement was reduced, as most maintenance works were now being executed by contractors. Only
about US$0.4 million was spent on materials and laboratory equipment compared to the total estimated of
US$3.1 million for the component.
14.   Strengthening institution building and improving the domestic industry. Achievement of the
institutional objective of the project was partial. The gravel pit inventoxy research was substantially
completed at K1.147 million compared to appraisal estimate of K560,000 mainly due to an expansion of
the geographical scope (covering all provinces). The same was true for the coronous materials research
(K553,000 compared to appraisal estimates K270,000). The first phase of the domestic construction
industry pilot training program was helpful in providing technical assistance to the contractors in preparing
bids.  Following completion of classroom training, contractors were also assisted during contract
execution. The program was initially successful but was terminated when funding was exhausted
prematurely, mainly because DOW personnel were unable to assist the consultants as planned and the latter
were required to provide all inputs at a much higher cost.
15.   The technical assistance for the DCA became operational under project PNG/89/801, drawn up
under an agreement between Govenmment of PNG, the Bank and ICAO. The technical assistance was
initially estimated at US$526,000 with December 1991 for completion date. After a revision in March
1991, the project was extended to December 1992 and the budget was amended to US$1.5 million. This
TA achieved most of its objectives including the preparation of a Medium-Term Development Profile
(1992-2000) which was periodically updated and used as a tool by the Govemment of PNG. A review of
the National Civil Aviation Acts and Statutes and recommendations of the institutional framework for the
establishment of a statutory Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) were prepared.
16.   Because of limited manpower, DCA was able to release only ten of its staff for training in
Singapore, Thailand, Australia, and Hong Kong for only 11.5 man-months of the 60 man-month allocated
for training. In the meantime technical assistance to DCA exhausted available funds. With respect to DOT
two of its staff members were sent to study for Master Degrees in Australian Universities at an extremely
high total cost of K304,000. Upon their return both graduates were assigned to important positions. A
senior DOT staff participated in a Bank sponsored course and eight participated in executive management
courses offered at Australian Management College. Six staff from the Mechanical Engineering Branch
received training at the Victoria Road Authority at a total cost of about K122,000. Other workshops and
short term trainings were also provided for DOW staff.



- 5 -
17.   Nearly all the feasibility studies and engineering design programs under the project were
completed, generally within budget Detailed engineering of the Togoba-Ialibu Road was done in-house
and unfortunately caused initial delays due to significant discrepancies and required revisions.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.   The implementation of the components of the project was affected differently for each
implementing agency by several intemal and extemal factors. In particular, the Togoba-Ialibu road section
has a complicated history worth recounting for the lessons it has for future projects implementation,
specially for civil works projects in the Hghlands of PNG. The tender for Togoba-Ialibu closed on
September 6, 1989. The contract was awarded on April 30, 1990 for a contract value of K13.5 million
compared to an appraisal base cost estimate of Kina 8.7 mnillion (1986 price). The order to proceed and
access to a 10 km section of unsealed road between Pore Village and Ialibu Turnoff (Km 39.3 to Km 49.3)
was given to the contractor on August 13, 1990. Mobilization and site establishment continued on Ialibu
Tumoff end without evidence that the Bank asked for confirmation of the 11% ERR for the Kaupena-
Hiabu road section as required in the loan agreement. As stated earlier, review of the design by the
contractor revealed some significant discrepancies and the revisions took until November 1990. Although,
when the contract was being negotiated the Govemment claimed to be the owner of the quarry to be used
for upgrading; the previous owners of Yombi Pit demanded royalties before materials could be extracted
from the area by the contractor. Similarly, the owners of land within the right-of-way demanded crop
compensation and land payment before work could proceed. Further, from November 27, 1990 to May 1,
1991 work was suspended because of (i) law-and-order problems due to threats by former landowners who
objected to the extraction of gravel from Yombi Pit before royalty payments to them were effected, and (ii)
concern for safety of the contractor's personmel and the engineer's staff. Although only a 10 km section of
the road was affected by the treats of violence the contractor was allowed to demobilize his plant while the
ownership of the quarry was resolved by the courts in favor of the citizens.
19.   After a payment of some K758,583.70 for standby plant, works resumed on May 1, 1991 at the
Togoba end of the road (Km 0 to Km 10) using an alternative quarry, but now it transpired that the
contractor did not have adequate resources to achieve the programmed targets. About 6 km had been
completed by May 15, 1992, when as a result of attacks on the contractor's vehicles and severe injury to
two of his staff, the engineer issued a second suspension order. Pursuant to a written agreement of May
25, 1992 the contractor allowed to withdraw his plant from site and deploy it at the site of another of his
contracts. A Bank mission in November 1992 found the terms of the May 25, 1992 agreement to be weak
and lacking incentive for the contractor to want to resume the works. When the contractor finally again
mobilized in February 1993, he started complaining of arrears in payments for the suspension
compensation..
20.   As the next phase of the project involved work on the remaining 20.6 km of Togoba-Ialibu road
section (Kaugel Bridge-Ialibu tnmoff), and in light of the escalation of cost being experienced, the Bank
required the Govemment: (i) to prepare economic justification of the section (Kaugel Bridge - Ialibu) of
not less than 11% and reduced standards; (ii) to demonstrate availability of aggregates and sufficient
budget allocations and warrant authorizations to complete the ongoing projects; and (iii) to complete audit
reports or provide time bound schedule for completion of the reports. The Bank tried to reach agreement
with the Government for completing of the remaining 20.6 km road section at reduced standards which



would have satisfied the loan agreement. The Minister of Transport, insisted on the original agreed design
standards as the Bank's condition of 11% ERR was satisfied by the results of a consultant study performed
by the supervisory engineer.
21.    The Bank tried to convince the Govemment that the remaining section should be completed at a
reduced standard because of the substantially increased costs. The Bank explained that: (i) rehabilitating
the road at the existing width of 6m instead of the 7m would achieve a substantial cost reduction and such
6m width is largely sufficient for the existing traffic composition and flow of some 500 vehicles per day
with lots of trucks some traveling at night; (ii) that the ERR of 17% calculated through using current cost
estimate (not including cost of supervision) would be lower if all costs and reasonable vehicle operating
cost savings and other benefits were taken into account. (iii) moreover, constructing at the original design
standards had negative implication for the govemment budget. Specifically, constructing the last 20.6 km
section at a cost of K600,000/km would have reduced the average disbursement percentage for the entire
project from 74% to 38%, and the specific disbursement for the civil works portion from 64% to 21%.
Following the borrowers decision to go ahead with the construction at the original design standard, the
Bank informed the government that it would cease further funding of the construction and consultancy
supervisions of Togoba-Ialibu as of January 1, 1994, when the closing date was extended for the third time
to allow the completion of the other project items.
22.    At the time the Bank sopped funding the Togoba-Ialibu road about US$19.9 million had been
spent which was 62% out of the revised estimated cost for the road. By April 29, when the contractor
finally withdrew the revised approved estimate cost was K39.083 million while the cost claimed by the
contractor was K53.373 million. As of October 30, 1995, the contractor's claim is estimated at K40.28
million and the revised estimated cost at K42.78 million. It is not clear how the contractor can forego such
a large portion of his cost( K13.093 million) if the records kept by the supervising engineer were accurate.
(Annex B: table 2A).
23.    The main contributing factors for the apparent changes in costs were implementation delays due to
secunty problems, problems of right-of-ways, access to quarries, variations in estimate of physical
quantities, underestimation of initial base cost. Also changes in the exchange rate, interest payments,
inadequate physical resources of the contractor have contributed to the changes in total cost (Annex B:
Table 2A, 2B, 2C). As a result of the above factors, cost changes and duration of implementation of
Togoba-Ialibu road were substantial and unacceptable.
24.    At the implementation level, the Project Management Office should have better monitored the
supervising engineer's performance while following the suggestions made repeatedly in the Bank's aide
memoires. This would have speeded up implementation, and provided timely and solution-oriented
analysis of the problems thereby avoiding cost escalation and delays in implementation. In particular, the
contractor continued to submit claims of different sorts: extension of time (due to rain, and law and order),
damages to property, difficult soil conditions, devaluation, cost of hiring a consultant to process his claims
etc. Despite the Bank's repeated request, thle engineer on behalf of the employer did not make substantive
claims nor kept accounts of records of such potential claims for counter claims against the contractor.
25.    During implementation the Govemment continued to experience a shortage of qualified staff and
since 1993 inadequate counterpart funds. Because of the shortage of qualified national staff and higher
turnover of expatriate staff, specially following the deteriorating macroeconomic situation and resulting



- 7 -
owner and to see that decisions are made in time and that agreements reached are implemented
Furthermore, the cash problem the Govemment faced made it difficult to avail counterpart funds and this
too became additional constraints on timely implementation. The Government's successful completion of
the remaining project items then started to depend on the use of direct payment procedures by the Bank to
the contractors.
26.   One other major problem was the attitude of the customary landowners, the beneficiaries of
improved roads. They saw the development of roads through their land as an opportunity to extract tribute
from the State by charging high prices for land, gravel pits and crops on the right-of-ways. They even
resorted to violent means to achieve their ends. This delayed the implementation time and caused cost
escalation.
27.   The ICAO air transport sector study also faced several problems. The main ones were a lack of
qualified counterpart staff due to Governnent recruitment restriction stemming from Governnent budgetary
constraints, delays in decision making, changes in Government in 1992, and interruption of work in progress
due to attempts in aviation policy formulation by groups and agencies outside DCA. DCA had requested an
increase of loan funds to finance extension of the services of the advisors under the project and the
recruitment of expatriates to fill the vacancies in the department. The additional funding needed to
implement the new proposals was estimated to be about US$5.3 mnillion representing an increase of about
US$3.7 million over the US$1.5 million previously approved by the Bank. A Bank mission in November
1992, recommended closer scrutiny by the Govermnent and a re-examnination of the proposals by the ICAO
administered advisors, as they did not basically address satisfactorily the deficiency in the existing structure.
The Bank declined allocating additional resource from the loan and no further progress was reported by
DCA although the matter is again being addressed under an ongoing study.
D. Project Sustainability
28.   The Government currently faces increasingly hard budgetary constraints as it attempts to re-establish
macroeconomic stability. Given the reality of the budgetary constraints it now faces, sustaining the benefits
from cost savings to vehicle operators and the higher safety standard attained as a result of execution of the
upgrading, regravelling and resealing of national roads, airstrips, taxiways and aprons is uncertain. On the
positive side the Government seems to have understood this sustainability dilemma specially in the road
subsector where inadequate maintenance expenditure has lead to rapid deterioration of the road network. It
is currently using consultants knowledgeable in the application of the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) to analyze its road network, to define the required maintenance
budget in relation to the quality of the already existing network and the quality and quantity of intended
additions to it. In this respect the 5orrower's follow-on project, which focuses on rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads and replacement of bridges could enhance the chance of sustainablity of the benefits of
the TIP provided the Govemment makes adequate counterpart funds for proper maintenance available.
29.    At a policy level there are also other encouraging and not so encouraging trends which may affect
sustainabiity. On the positive side, following an abutrnent washout at the Mairi Bridge on the Highlands
Highways, contracts for bridge works were modified to allow in the future for extension of the defect liability
period from six to eighteen months. On the other hand, there is need to introduce and enforce cost control
mechanism. An end should be put to the prevailing notion that once a contract is signed and implementation
begun that the cost of the project item can continue to escalate without limit until the item is physically
completed. In this regards, the Government's declared policy of using an economic criteria as its main basis



- 8 -
control mechanism. An end should be put to the prevailing notion that once a contract is signed and
implementation begun that the cost of the project item can continue to escalate without limit until the item
is physically completed. In this regards, the Govemment's declared policy of using an economic criteria as
its main basis for making investment decisions should be adhered to. Furthermore, there is a need to
develop a mode of operation for timely resolution of conflicts over land rights between the State and
landowners without the latter resorting to violence. This would require pursuing policies which induce
landowners to cooperate in their own self-interest and creating awareness among PNG officials regarding
the economic consequences of delayed actions in project implementation. Also sensitizing decision
makers to the fact that the shelf life of study projects is limited, and the need to take timely measures to
implement studies instead of shelving them would help to improve the sustainability of the benefits from
the large number of studies executed under TIP and the associated Japanese Grant.
E. Bank Performance
30.   Identification: Bank's identification of the project took place in the framework of the
Govemment's preparation of its National Medium-Term Development Plan (1986-1990) based on the
Transport Investment Program Study financed under a previous Bank loan (Ln. 2265-PNG). The Bank
screened from the Govemment Transport Investment Program sub-projects to be financed under the loan
based on its new transport policy. The new policy emphasizes application of economic criteria, a greater
role for the private sector and cost recovery. In addition support was provided for strengthening
institutional capacity. Overall identification appears to have been satisfactory.
31.    Preparation: In retrospect, Bank performance during the preparation phase of the project was not
satisfactory. True, effort was made to assure adequate preparation so as to reduce delays in implementation.
Detailed engineering designs for regravelling of national roads and resealing/ regravelling of runways, taxi
ways and aprons and for the Mai-Buvusi road section were about completed. The first year projects for
bridgework were identified. For Togoba-Ialibu, however, only preliminary engineering was completed
prior to appraisal and design standards of the last 20 km section of the road was left to be determined later.
Moreover, in retrospect problems associated to land acquisition and related security problems were
underestimated. For the same reasons it was not possible to go ahead under ICB with the construction of
Alotau-Gumey road.
32.    Appraisal: Despite inadequate preparedness of the different items of the project cited above, the
project appraisal can be considered satisfactory. The major risks were identified and provisions were made
in the loan agreement. For example, in the case of the Togoba-lalibu Turnoff road section, the potential
feasibility problem for Kaupena-Ialilu road section at the proposed standard was identified. Thus, the
appraisal recommended that recalculated ERR of minimum of 11% be a condition for upgrading of that
section at the original design standard. Also with respect to the timely acquisition of right-of-ways the
need for advance action was understood, although the implementing agencies were not able to resolve the
issue even during the entire period of the project.
33.    Supervision: The Bank showed a certain amount of flexibility to facilitate achievement of the
major project objectives within reasonable cost and with minimum delays. For instance, considering the
importance of the Togoba-Ialibu road section in the Highlands network, the Bank continued to call the
attention of the engineer, the contractor and the Govemment on the steps to be taken to complete the
project successfully even after, the Govemment declined to reduce the design standards of the remaining



- 9 -
20.6 km section. The Bank's flexibility to the changing priorities of the Govemment was also apparent
during the emergencies faced by the Govemment. For example, after the Rabaul volcanic emergency, the
Bank made resources available for the Tokua Airport improvement to replace the destroyed Rabual
Airport. The Bank also accorded priority to Umi Bridge temporary restoration after its accidental damage
by a truck, and to the flood relief works in the Southemr Highlands Province.
34.   In other respects the Bank was firm. Following the Govemment decision not to reduce design
standards of the Kaugel Bridge-Ialibu Turn-off section, in spite of the escalating cost and lowering of the
expected ERR, the Bank stopped disbursement. Also, when DCA requested for the allocation of additional
funds from the loan the Bank declined. The overlay for Jackson airport was declared misprocured and
US$2.68 million of the loan was canceled. When the Bank detected that the liability of the contractors for
bridge construction covers only six months instead of the usual one year or more the Bank required that in
the future the liability period must extend to at least one year. Overall, the Bank supervision can be
considered satisfactory.
F. The Borrower Performance
35.    Project preparation: Prefeasibility, feasibility and final engineering for most project components
were prepared by consultants. Except for the Togoba-Ialilbu road section which was designed in house by
DOW. The design however was not completed as planned. The timely acquisition of right of ways for
roads and bridges remained unresolved in some of the sites and continued to hamper progress during
implementation. In retrospect it was an error in judgment to allow in house design of the major project
component especially because it was to be executed by a foreign contractor.
36.     Implementation: The Borrower's implementation of the regravelling/resealing of roads,
construction of bridges and the civil works components for civil aviation were generally successful.
Feasibility studies were generally completed on time and within budget. The establishment of the CAA
was delayed, but probably for valid reasons. The technical assistance for domestic construction industry
was only partially implemented because of cost overrun due to DOW's inability to provide counterpart
staff to participate in the program. Perhaps, the Borrower's major institutional weakness was made
apparent in the course of implementation of the Togoba-Ialibu national road. The Borrower, handicapped
by limited qualified national staff, had limited capacity to exercise its rights, to scrutinize, comment and
evaluate the work of its supervising engineer, contractor and project coordinating office and to take timely
corrective actions based on the findings. This limited capacity is also apparent in the delays or failures to
undertake timely measures to implement agreed actions in mission aide memories. Timely resolution of
implementation issues such as addressing the security problem and conflicts for right-of-ways and access
to gravel pits could have been pursued more actively. Moreover, as revealed from the response to the
implementation problem, especially of Togoba-Ialibu road, more attentive supervision of the output of the
project management office and the supervision engineers could have made them more responsive to the
owner's interest. Overall implementation was, therefore, also deficient.
G. Assessment of Outcome
37.   The overall project outcome is considered deficient because of the poor performance of Togoba-
Ialibu road despite substantial achievement of the other objectives. The poor results of Togoba-Ialibu
national road improvement overshadowed what otherwise would have been a satisfactory achievement.



- 10-
probable traffic was estimated to be 16%. The state of data on traffic count and vehicle operating cost in
PNG is much to be desired, specially since the recent economic hardship.
H. Future Operation
38.    The Government (DOT) has completed a road inventory study and has hired consultants which
have prepared a five-year Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, including a quantified
inventory of the existing network in replacement value terms. The Bank intends to appraise a Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project in early 1996. DOT has also undertaken a bridge inventory
study with objective to computerize bridge inventory and systematize condition survey to facilitate sound
budgeting for bridge maintenance, rehabilitation and future investrnents. These studies are expected to be
operationalized. The studies are funded from a US$2.0 million Japanese Grant (No.22820) with the
Bank as the executing agency.
I. Key Lessons Learned
39.   In the design of future projects, the Government and the country should give due considerations to
the following lessons learned in the operation of Transport Improvement Project. The lessons are:
a) Project Design versus implementation capability: The project design has proved to be far more
complex than implementing agency was capable handling (para. 7).
b) In-house Design of Major project: Experience showed that it was an error of judgment to allow
design of a major project in house, especially when it has to be executed by a foreign contractor (para.
35).
c) Liability of contractors: In the future the liability period for contractors for road- and bridge
construction should cover at least ayear (para 34).
d) Financial Control & Cost Management: A culture has developed in PNG which finds it perfectly
logical that any cost overrun, legitimate or resulting from incompetence or negligence of the supervisory
consultants, contractors or the citizens, will ultimately results in the Government paying the bill. This
will have to change by more adequately establishing responsibility. The govemment should therefore re-
examine its financial and cost management system and establish mechanisms for control of cost
overruns resulting from legitimate reasons, incompetence or negligence of the supervisory consultant, the
contractors, or the citizenry. (para. 22).
e) Road network management: Ln view of the rapidly deteriorating condition of PNG's road network
from lack of adequate maintenance, there is an urgent need to operationalize the proposed Road
Maintenance Rehabilitation Project. Furthermore, the proposed project should be designed to help
improve the statistical base for road traffic, vehicle operating and road maintenance costs (para. 28).
f) Training of key staff: The borrower experienced many difficulties in the course of implementation of
the Transport Improvement Project. Most of these difficulties with their remedies have been identified
during project appraisal. Other suggestions were made in reports of consultants and Bank mission aide
memoires for follow up and subsequent actions by Government senior management staff. Nevertheless,
these problems often remained unattended and were aggravated because of a critical shortage of



- 11 -
qualified staff, resulting in delays and escalation of costs. Moreover, the shortage of competent
Govemment supervision staff did not allow to: (i) scrutinize the individual consultant achievements and
their commitment in the execution of their task to the owner; (ii) follow up Bank mission aide memoire
undertakings; (iii) control costs and time extensions; (iv) get more involvement of the supervision staff;
and (vi) prepare plans based on realistic estimates of available counterpart funds. For these and other
reasons, future Bank loans to the transport sector should continue to assure sufficient resources to train
key staff at all levels of project implementation. (paras. 25, 36).
g) Land rights: In the course of implementation of Bank financed road projects the assumption that it is
somehow possible to resolve land right issues ahead of time before construction has begun was tested
and found for the most part not to be quite valid. Inability to resolve the conflicts of interest, which arose
between the State of PNG regarding its eminent domain right and the rights of its land owning citizens to
fair compensation in the acquisition of right-of-ways and access to gravel pits, has led the landowners to
resort to violent means to achieve what they deemed their legitimate interest. The ensuing law and order
problems, which seriously affected the cost and timely implementation of civil work projects in the
highlands of PNG, served as the bases of claims by contractors. Since the use of coercion by the State
for acquisition of land may prove even more uneconomical and counter productive, an incentive system
which could prompt land-owners to cooperate willingly, because it is in their self-interest to do so, must
be devised and resources should be dedicated for public awareness campaign of the rights and obligation
of citizens and the changing land values as a result of road construction. (para. 26)
h) Security problems: The estimated physical and price contingency allowances over the base costs for
national roads were found to be inadequate to cover the actual cost of projects where cost escalation
occurs due to security problems. During the implementation of Togoba-Ialibu, the use of security
contingency fund was established to provide funding for a special force to safeguard the peace, The
provision of security contingency separate from the physical and price contingencies can have
advantages. First, the availability of earmarked security contingency funds can speed up project
implementation. Second, since the application of the security contingency funds would probably be
subject to special vote of parliament, it would help the government to deal with each security issue as it
arises. Third, it may provide ways to quantify the economic consequence of law and order on project
cost, duration of implementation and its overall outcome. Fourth, the application of the security
contingency concept would help to sensitize the policy making bodies and implementation agencies.
Finally, the experience gained can help the Bank to strengthen its country risk analysis and help its
borrowers when faced with similar situations. (para. 23).






12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
(Loan 2742-PNG)
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial          Negligible      Not
applicable
Macroeconomic policies               O:                         
Sector policies                                                         El [O  
Financial objectives                 Ol                El0
institutional development              ]                                                   El]
Physical objectives                  O                 EO]
Poverty reduction                    O                  O                Ol]
Gender concerns                      OO]
Other social objectives                                  ]              EO]
Environmental objectives                               El]
Public sector management            E                   O                                   ls
Private sector development
Economic Benefits
B. Project Sustainability            Likely          Unlikely         Uncertainl/
(D)             (D)              (I)
C. Bank performance                  Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(D              ()               (I)
Identification                      El]
Preparation assistance              E                  E                IZ
Appraisal                           E                  Eli
Supervision
D. Borrower performance              Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
()              ()               (I)
Preparation                          OO]
Implementation                                         El]
Covenant compliance                  OlE
Operation (if applicable)           E                  El]
E. Assessment of outcome             Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)             (De              (I)
I depends essentially on maintenance followv-up



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title   Purpose                      Loan/credit
Year of   amount
Approval (US$ M) Status                 Comments
receding operations
First Highway    Construction and         1970     9.0   Completed.             Project costs exceeded by
Project          Improvement of                          PPAR 1635              about 90%. ICB bids
Loan 693-PNG    sections of the                          (1977.)                were higher than appraisal
Credit 204-PNG   Highlands Highway                                              estimates indicating that at
that timne conditions may
not have been attractive to
foreign contractors.
First Port Project  Improvements to the   1972     9.2   Completed.             A loan condition in regard
Credit 326-PNG   ports at Kieta, Lae                                            to cost based tariffs
and Port Moresby                                               was not complied with.
Second Highlands Construction and         1977     19.0  Completed.             ICB bids were higher than
Road             improvement of                          PCR No 5488 (1986)    appraisal estimates by
Improvement      further sections of                     Report prepared        about 75 % and the project
Project          the Highlands                           together with the Third   was reduced in scope.
Credit 677-PNG   Highway                                 Highway Project
Second Ports     Land reclamation, civil  1978     3.5   Completed.             Although the project was
Project          works, procurement                      PCR No. 4827 (1982)    completed satisfactorily
Loan 1551-PNG   of pilotage launches                                            below cost estimates, it
and technical                                                  had limited development
assistance and                                                impact. About US$0.5
training                                                       million of loan funds
were canceled.
Third Highway   Improvement of            1980     30.0  Completed.             A PPAR rated the project
Project          further sections of                     PCR No 5488 (1986)    to be unsatisfactory overall
Loan 1856-PNG   the Highlands Highway,                   Audit Report No.64410  institutional impact partial
Credit 1030-PNG  preparation of a road                   (1993)                 and sustainability unlikely.
maintenance program,
procurement of traffic
counters and technical
assistance for preparation
for projects
Road Improvement Improvement of national   1983    31.0  Completed              Financed some of the
Project          and provincial roads,                   Project Completion     bridges of Loan 2742-PNG
Loan 2265-PNG   construction of bridges                  Report No. 12625 (1994).
and technical assistance
Following operations
Structural      Support Government's      1990      50   completed              Project did not achieve
Adjustment Loan  effort to undertake a                   PCR No. 13994 (1992)  expected objectives
3218-PNG        program of macro
economic stabilization
and structural reform
Special          Rapid disbursement       1991     30.0  Ongoing                Scheduled to close,
intervention    program                                                         December, 31, 1996.
Project Loan 3289-
PNG



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle   Date planned    Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project         N/A            Sep-84
summary)
Preparation                              May-85          Sep-85
Appraisal                                Sep-85          Oct-85
Negotiations                             Apr-86          May-86
Board presentation                       Jun-86          7/22/86
Signing                                   N/A            4/17/87
Effectiveness                             N/A            7/16/87
Project completion                       Dec-91          Dec-94
Loan closing                             Dec-91          Dec-94
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY1987 FY1988 FY1989 FY1990 FY1991 FY1992 FY1993 FY1994 FY1995
Appraisal estimates        2.7     10.5    23.9      36.3     43.3     45.5    45.5
Actual                                      6.3      9.4      16.6    24.5    28.2    38.9       42.8
Actual as % of appraisal   0%      0%      26%       26%      38%      54%     62%      86%      91%
estimates
Formally Revised *         2.7    10.5    23.9       30.6     34.6    40.01    40.0    40.8      42.8
Actual                                      6.3      9.4      16.6    24.5    28.2    38.9       42.8
Actual as % of revised     0%      0%      26%       31%      48%      61%     70%     90%      100%
estimates
Date of final disbursement                                                                     3/01/95
* US$ 2,680,000 was canceled of the original amount of US$ 45,500,('00.
The Balance of US$ 42,820,000 was fully disbursed,



15
Table 5: Key Indicator for Project Implementation
(See Tables in Annex B for details)
I. Key implementation indicators
in SAR/President's Report                       Estimated                   Actual
Physical Objective
National road construction and upgrading (Km)      80                         66
Bridge rehabilitation and replacement (No./m)*   50/1100                    7/267*
National road regravelling (Km)                   500                         835
Resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways
and aprons (No of airports)                     16                          9
Institutional Efficiency/Cost & Time Effectiveness
Cost:
Togoba-lalibu Turn-Off (Kina/Krn)              174000                    1,100,000
Mai-Buvusi Road (Kina/Km)                      164530                     242,180
Time
Togoba-lalibu Turn-Off (weeks)                  120                262 (by May 12, 1995)
Mai-Buvusi Road (weeks)                          52                         48
*Only a fraction of the bridge replacement program were directly financcd from Loan 2742-PNG
(see para. 11 for details)



16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                             at appraisalUredefined     Status   Impact of study
DOT
1. Transport Efficiency Study     Cost recovery and        Completed  Drafting of the transport draft paper and
policy                             attempt to deal with inland water ways transport
2. Post Investment                Impact Study             Completed  Assessed the socio-economic impact of
Evaluation Study                                                   road infrastructure investments: Magi, Enga
and Ramu Highways and access road for
Atemble to Simbai.
3. Port Moresby PMV Study         Urban transport          Completed  A number of investment programs
planning                           reconmmended - await financing
4. Urban Transport Planning       Urban transport          Completed  Investmnent program has been drawn up.
Study for Lae, Madang          planning                            Implication await financing.
and Rabual
DOW
1. Gravel Pit Inventory           Identification           Completed  Facilitates construction and maintenance of
road projects.
2. Coronous Research Project      Construction material    Completed  Facilitates construction and maintenance of
research                           road projects.
DCA
Civil Aviation Organization       Establish Civil Aviation    Final report Awaits government decision
and Management                    Authority/lCAO            Dec-94
DCI
Domestic Civil Engineering        Training/Construction   Final report Utilized to train the first batch of
Industry                          Manuals                  27-Sep-94  contractors
ASSOCIATED PROJECTS (Japanese Grant)
Road Inventory and 5 year         Draw up a five year road  ongoing   Funded by Japanese Grant Trust Fund.
Maintenance Rehabilitation        maintenance program
Study.
Kwikila- Study and Kupiano-Safia-    Road Feasibility study and   Ongoing    Same source as above
Bareji Design Project             design
Feasibility studies for:
a) Ialibu-Mendi (70 Km)        Economic feasibility     Completed  Engineering design in progress
b) Ramu-Usino (73 Km)          Economic feasibility                Design to be funded under EEC.
c) Veimauti-Tapini Junction
(72 Km)                      Economic feasibility
d) Fangalawa-Namatanai (rd)    Economic feasibility
e) Tuanumbi-Lumi (bridge)      Economic feasibility
9) Port Moresby Road           Economic feasibility     Completed
Needs Study
g) Vanimo-Aitape               Route Study              Completed



17
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        ActuaUlatest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign               Local    Foreign
Item                                    costs      costs      Total      costs      costs       Total
A. Civil Works
National road construction
and upgrading                     4.6         8.7       13.3       9.5        16.9         26.4
Bridgerehabilitationand              2.1        4.9        7.0        1.6        2.8          4.4
replacement
National road regravelling           2.0        3.0        5.0        2.6        4.7          7.3
Resealing/regravelling of runways,
taxiways and aprons               0.8         2.0       2.8        0.9        1.6          2.5
Subtotal                            9.5        18.6       28.1       14.8       26.0         41.1
Equipment and Materials
Road maintenance equipment and
materials                         0.0        5.3        5.3       0.0        0.4          0.4
Airport navigation, meteorological
and communication equipment       0.0         3.1       3.1        0.0        3.1          3.1
/a
Subtotal                            0.0         8.4        8.4       0.0        3.5          3.5
C. Technical Assistance and Training     1.5        7.3        8.8       0.0        15.3         15.3
Right-of-Way                         0.4         0.0       0.4        0.4        0.(          0.4
Project Base Cost (A+B+C+D)      11.4       34.3       45.7       14.6      44.8         59.4
Contingencies
Emergency                                                        0.6         1.1         1.7
Physical contingencies           1.4        4.2        5.6
Price contingencies             3.3        10.1       13.4
Total Project Cost /b         16.1       48.6       64.7       15.2       45.9        61.1
Source:
/a To be fimanced by AIDAB
/b As of January 1986, total included US$ 6.6 M for taxes and duties as of -
US$ 2.68 M was canceled from the loan
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign               Local    Foreign
Source                 costs     costs     Total     costs      costs        Total
IBRD/IDA                0.0      45.5       45.5      0.0        42.8         42.8
AIDAB                   0.0       3.1       3.1       0.0        3.1          3.1
(AUSAID)
Govemment               16.1      0.0       16.1      15.2       0.0          15.2
TOTAL                   16.1     48.6       64.7      15.2       45.9         61.1



18
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment  fulfillm  Description of
ent
Agreement  Section      type    status date         date   covenant               Comments
Article IV   Article                    6 month after       Certified copy        Initially delays were
4.01
Financial   b (ii)        I        C    end of each         of the audit          expected in furnishing
Covenant                                such year           report               audit reports
Article V    Article                                        Train about 90        Lack of Adequate staff-
Other       5.02 (a)      9        C   Annually            local staff of DOW     only about 10 trained
Covenants                                                   each year during      annually
project
Article                                         By 12/31/86 furnish    Complied with
5.02 (b)      9        C   Once                 criteria for selection
of staff to be trained
overseas
Article                     Annually            Starting 9/30/87, furnish Only DOT in
5.02 (a)      9       CP   starting             staff training program   compliance
by 9/30/87         for next calendar year
annually
Status: C       - Complied with
CD      - Compliance after delay
NC      - Not complied with
SOON   - Compliance Expected in reasonably short time
CP      - Complied with partially
NYD    - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Inventory resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectional budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectional regulatory/institutional action
13. Other



19
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Planned            Revised              Actual
Project Cycle               (Weeks)           (Weeks)               (weeks)
Through Appraisal             N/A               N/A                  37.8
AppraisalUBoard               N/A               N/A                  24.1
Supervision                   67                 93                  89.8
Completion                     6                  6                  12.8
Total                         73                 99                  164.5
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
;                    ~~~~~~~~Number Days in                        Performance rating
lStage of           MontW       of    field    Specialized  Implcmcnt- Development Types ofl
project cycle        Year   persons (Total)  represented   ation status   Impact   problemsl
Through appraisal    Feb-85     2      10        E, HE                                                    l
Appraisal through
Board approval      Nov-85      3      24      E, HE, HE      _
lBoard approval
through effectiveness
07/03/87    2       18      HE, HE          2           1      Road Needs Study for Port
Moresby not yet signed
Supervision I       11/09/87    2       7       FA, HE          2           1     Delays in equipment
procurement, need to
accelerate road
maintenance
Supervision II     07/28/88     1      10         FA            2           1      Delay in start of works:
Roads and Bridges; need
to frame-up training
program
Supervision III     11/11/88    2      15       FA, HE          2           1      Land acquisition
problems; Maintenance
budget inadequate



20
continued
Supervision IV     11/15/89    2      90      FA, HE          2           1     TA for DOW not started;
Budget for Road Maint.
FY90 Budget only 30% of
requested; No dis-
bursement oni Kaupena-
Ialibu section
Supervision V     03/30/90    2       13      FA, HE          2           1     Land acquisition worsen
by security problems:
likely to cause problems to
bridge rehabi,itation
program, e.g. Keita air-
port, Togoba-lalibu.
Supervision VI     09/24/90    2      17      FA, HE          2          2      Land acquisition problems
plagued bridge programn;
proposed to delete 92193
program; passage of law
for increase of authority to
contracts by DOFP/DOW
Supervision VII    06/30/91    4      15     FA, HE, E,       2          2      Jackson airport
MuE                             misprocurement; Land
acquisition, complicated
by general security
problems continue
affecting Alotau-Gurney
road. bridge rehabilitation
program and others.
Supervision VIII    11/20/92    1     11        HE            3          3      Suspension of Togoba-
lalibu road because of
security, procurement of
road maintenance
equipment and material
outstanding,
Supervision IX     05/07/93    2      10       E, HE          3           3     Law and order problems
on Togoba-lalibu Rd
resulted in second
suspension of works in
September 1993.;
procurement of road
maintenance equipment
and materials outstanding



21
Continued
Supervision X      12/15/93    2      10       E, HE          2           2      Closing of Loan 2742-
PNG; escalation of
Togoba-Ialibu road
construction to more than
double; need to lower
design standard Options:
6m and 10 year design life
or 7.5m and 20 years
design life for traffic of
500 veh/day
Supervision XI     05/14/94    2      10       E, HE          S           S     Final disbursement for
Togoba-Ialibu road
requires still a
revised/amended or new
contract between the
parties; Fire destroyed in
July 1993 all documents
and recent studies;
consultants to be requested
for copies; Decision on
priorities for utilization of
Japanese grant to made by
DOT and DOW.
Last Supervision XIV 10/10/94    2    39       E, HE          S           S
Ministry of Transport
decided to continue with
the design standard the
last 20 km of Togoba-
Ialibu road DOFP sees
availability of counter
fund for the project to be a
problem.
* Days in the fields are total for the mission. Often the mission supervises also the other ongoing loans; Loan
2742-PNG, Loan 3289-PNG and Japanese Grant NZ22820.
HE     Highway Engineer
FA     Financial Analyst
E      Economist
MuE   Municipal Engineer



22
Table 11: Economic Costs and Benefits \1
Original Appraisal
length    AADT           ERR %           AADT          ERR 2/
National Roads                         Km        1985           1985            1995        May 1995
Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off Road Section    50         565            16             672            4.8
Mai- Buvusi (-Galai-2)                 19         217            13             364            16
1/ the 1995 ERR calculation is done using data on vehicle operating cost from the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation project. Traffic data count were few and show variations. The lower and upper limits are used in
the calculations.
2/ See next pages for HDM - Summary



- 23 -
HNDM Manager - Project Summary
Run Name: Papua New Guinea - ICR
Run Date: 20/11/95
Road Name: Togoba - Ialibu Road
Road Length: 47.0 km
Currency: MilLion US DOLLARS
WITHOUT PROJECT CASE                            WITH PROJECT CASE                       ECONOMIC COMPARISON
Grade Every 180 Days                            Pave the Road in 1988
ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC                      ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC   DECREASE DECREASE ECONOMIC
YEAR     ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY       USER    TOTAL       ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY       USER    TOTAL      AGENCY      USER       NET
COSTS    COSTS    COSTS                         COSTS    COSTS    COSTS        COSTS    COSTS BENEFITS
1988     539       20.4      0.10     7.70      7.80      539      20.4      0.10      7.70     7.80        0.00      0.00      0.00
1989     555       20.5      0.10     7.95      8.04      555      20.5      0.10      7.95     8.04        0.00      0.00      0.00
1990     571       20.5      0.10     8.19      8.28      571      20.5      1.47      8.19     9.65       -1.37      0.00    -1.37
1991     588       20.5      0.10     8.44      8.53      588      20.5      3.02      8.44    11.46       -2.92      0.00    -2.92
1992     606       20.5      0.10     8.69      8.79     606       20.5      4.12      8.69    12.81       -4.02      0.00    -4.02
1993     624 RESU 20.5       0.54     8.96      9.50     624       20.5      8.91      8.96    17.87       -8.37      0.00    -8.37
1994     643       17.7      0.10     8.53      8.63      643      20.5    28.64       9.23    37.87      -28.55    -0.69   -29.24
1995     672       18.6      0.10     9.15      9.25      672 CONS  3.3      0.07      5.39      5.45       0.03      3.77      3.79
1996     702       18.7      0.10     9.58      9.68      702       3.4      0.07      5.67      5.73       0.03      3.92      3.95
1997     734       18.8      0.10    10.03    10.12       734       3.5      0.07      5.95     6.01        0.03      4.08      4.11
1998     767       18.8      0.10    10.49    10.59       767       3.6      0.07      6.24     6.31        0.03      4.25      4.28
1999     802       18.8      0.10    10.97    11.07       802       3.7      0.07      6.55     6.62        0.03      4.43      4.45
2000     838 RESU 18.9       0.54    11.48    12.02       838       3.9      0.07      6.88      6.94       0.48      4.61      5.08
2001     875       18.1      0.10    11.75    11.84       875       4.0      0.07      7.22      7.29       0.03      4.53      4.56
2002     915       18.9      0.10    12.56    12.66       915       4.2      0.07      7.58      7.65       0.03      4.98      5.01
2003     956       19.0      0.10    13.14    13.24       956       4.3      0.07      7.96      8.03       0.03      5.18      5.21
2004     999       19.0      0.10    13.75    13.84       999       4.5      0.07      8.37      8.44       0.03      5.38      5.41
2005    1044       19.1      0.10    14.38    14.48    1044         4.7      0.07      8.80      8.87       0.03      5.58      5.61
2006    1091       19.1      0.10    15.04    15.14    1091 RESE  4.8        1.22      9.28    10.49        -1.12     5.76      4.64
2007    1140 RESU 19.1       0.54    15.73    16.28    1140         5.0    -4.50       9.72      5.22       5.04      6.02    11.06
Average            19.3                                             9.8
TotaL (undiscounted)         3.26   216.51   219.76                         43.81   154.73   198.53       -40.55    61.78    21.23
Total (at  12.0 %)           1.22    79.14    80.36                         25.52    64.77    90.29       -24.30    14.37    -9.93
Project NPV at  12.0 % Discount Rate:   -9.93
Project Internal Rate of Return (%):   4.8



- 214 -
HDN Manager - Project Summary
Run Name: Papua New Guinea - ICR
Run Date: 20/11/95
Road Name: Mai - Galai Road
Road Length: 19.2 km
Currency: Million US DOLLARS
WITHOUT PROJECT CASE                             WITH PROJECT CASE                         ECONOMIC COMPARISON
Grade Every 180 Days                             Pave the Road in 1988
ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC                       ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC   DECREASE DECREASE ECONOMIC
YEAR     ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY         USER    TOTAL      ADT OPER  IRI   AGENCY        USER    TOTAL       AGENCY       USER       NET
COSTS    COSTS    COSTS                          COSTS    COSTS    COSTS          COSTS    COSTS BENEFITS
1988     292       20.2      0.04       1.67      1.71     292       20.2      4.99       1.67      6.66       -4.95      0.00    -4.95
1989     300       20.2      0.04       1.72      1.76     300 CONS  3.2       0.03      0.97      0.99         0.01      0.75     0.76
1990     309       20.2      0.04       1.77      1.81     309        3.3      0.03       1.00      1.03        0.01      0.77     0.78
1991     319       20.3      0.04       1.82      1.86     319        3.4      0.03      1.04       1.06        0.01     0.79      0.80
1992     328       20.3      0.04       1.88      1.92     328        3.5      0.03       1.07      1.10        0.01     0.81      0.82
1993     338 RESU 20.3       0.22       1.94     2.16      338        3.6      0.03       1.11      1.13        0.19      0.83      1.02
1994     348       16.9      0.04       1.81      1.85     348        3.7      0.03       1.14      1.17        0.01      0.67     0.68
1995     364       17.9      0.04       1.95      1.99     364        3.9      0.03      1.20       1.23        0.01     0.75      0.76
1996     380        18.1     0.04       2.05      2.09     380        4.0      0.03       1.26      1.29        0.01      0.79     0.80
1997     397        18.1     0.04      2.14      2.18      397        4.1      0.03       1.32      1.35        0.01      0.82     0.83
1998     415       18.2      0.04      2.24      2.28      415        4.2      0.03       1.39      1.41        0.01      0.86     0.87
1999     434       18.2      0.04      2.35      2.39      434        4.3      0.03       1.45      1.48        0.01      0.89     0.90
2000     454 RESU 18.3        0.22      2.46      2.68     454 RESE  4.4       0.50       1.53      2.02       -0.28      0.93      0.65
2001     474        17.3      0.04      2.50      2.54     474        4.6      0.03       1.60      1.63        0.01      0.90     0.91
2002     495        18.3     0.04       2.68      2.72     495        4.7      0.03       1.68      1.71        0.01      1.00     1.01
2003     518        18.4      0.04      2.81      2.85     518        4.8      0.03       1.77      1.79        0.01      1.05      1.06
2004     541        18.5      0.04      2.94      2.98     541        5.0      0.03       1.85      1.88        0.01      1.09      1.10
2005     565        18.5     0.04       3.08     3.12      565        5.1      0.03       1.95      1.97        0.01      1.13     1.15
2006     591        18.5      0.04      3.22     3.26      591        5.3      0.03      2.04      2.07         0.01      1.18      1.19
2007     617 RESU 18.6        0.22      3.37     3.59      617        5.4    -0.47       2.15       1.68        0.69      1.22     1.91
Average             18.8                                               5.0
Total (undiscounted)          1.33    46.39    47.72                           5.50    29.17    34.66          -4.17    17.23    13.06
Total (at  12.0 %)            0.50    17.00    17.50                           5.26    10.87    16.13          -4.76      6.14      1.37
Project NPV at  12.0 % Discount Rate:   1.37
Project Internal Rate of Return (%):   16.0



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2742-PNG)
Annex B: Table 1: RevisedAllocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollar Equivalent)                % of
Category                    As appraised        As revised'          Expenditures to be Financed
(1) Civil works              21,700,000         27,000,000          64%
(2) Equipment and materials    6,500,000         1,000,000          100 % of foreign expenditures
and 65 % of local expenditures
(3) Consultant's services    8,500,000           14,820,000         100%
and training
(4) Unallocated              8,800,000
TOTAL                        45,500,000          42,820,000
I US$2.68 m was canceled because of"misprocurement"



26
Annex B: Table 2A: Togoba-lalibu Turn-Off Road Section Reconstruction
Cost Claimed: Extension /Variations/Law & Order/Out of Sequence/General Claims.
(Kina Million)
1985   1986   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991 1992 1993 1994 1995  1995/b
30-
Apr         |
SAR: bases construction cost*             8.7
SAR plus physical contingencies 15%               10.0
SAR cost projected to actual starting year
based on consumer price index &
planned work distribution                       10.5   10.8  11.4  11.8  12.6  13.1  13.4  13.8  14.2  14.8
Intial contract value (April 30, 1990)                                     13.5
Revised approved estimates as of Dec. 31)                                  13.5  13.5  17.8 23.5 31.5  39.1   53.4
Value of Work Certified (cummul.)                                                       5.0  9.7  19.9  33.9
Revised Approved Estimate as                                                                      39.19  100%
April 30, 1995
Origional contract Value                                                                                 13.5  35%
Difference, made up as follows:                                                                         25.5  65%
Physical variations                                                                                 6.9   18%
Out of sequence Work                                                                                0.1   0%
Law and order (direct claim)                                                                        1.6   4%
General claim (cost of stopage and cost of late payments)                                          11.0  28%
Value not yet classified as any of the above                                                        5.9   15%
Alternative
Break Up of Agreed Contract Sum as of:
October 30, 1995
Measured Work                                                                                           26.0  65%
1990 Devaluation                                                                                         0.3   1%
1994 Devaluation                                                                                         2.6   6%
Kaugel Slips                                                                                             0.8   2%
Suspention costs (3.5km)                                                                                 0.7   2%
Law and Order claims                                                                                     1.3   3%
Escaltion                                                                                                4.0   10%
Interest                                                                                                 1.1   3%
Late payment claims                                                                                      0.5   1%
Standby April-Sept 95                                                                                   0.85   2%
Misc claims                                                                                              1.6   4%
Materials on site                                                                                        0.6    1%
Fnal Contract value                                                                                     40.3   100
For completion the remaining (3.5km)                                                                     2.5
Consumerpriceindex/a  (base year= 1990)   78      82    85    90   94   100   111  117  119  122n 122a
(baseyear= 1985)  100    105    103   105  104   107   107  104  105  107  107
/a Source: IMFs IFS: consumer ii lex for six towns continued since 1977. No wholesale prices are published in the IFS.
/b 53.38milionKina was the amouni ei:.imed by the contractor.



27
Annex B: Table 2A: Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off Road Section Reconstruction
Detailed Cost claimed: Extension NVariations/Law & Order/Out of Sequence/General Claims.
6.1 Variations
The following variations have been approved:-
Physical                                                       Extra Funds (K) Current Expenditure (K)
V. 0. 1: Provision of Engineer's Housing                            336,000.00             322,550.00
V. 0. 2: Additional Security to Works                               660,000.00             545,317.00
V. 0.3: Additional Survey /Laboratory Equipment                      26,341.13              26,314.13
V. 0. 4: Pavement Materials 0 - 30 Km source from Modilon          1,266,000.00                 N/A
V. 0. 5: Inlet Pit Structures                                       120,288.00             120,288.00
V. 0. 6: Currency Development Estimate                              310,433.61             310,433.61
V. 0. 7: Costs for Standby Plant Resulting from the Suspension      758,583.70             758,583.70
Order 27th November
1990
V. 0. 8: Housing for Engineer's Rep.                                 87,000.00              85,000.00
V. 0. 9: Extra Cost for Additional Lined Drains/Subsoil Drains (Est.)  1,400,000.00             N/A
and Price Variation for Drain from 15/05/9 1.
V. 0. 10: Additional Costs for Seismic Restraints                     8,992.32               8,992.32
V. 0. I 1: Costs for Standby of Plant and Other Costs due to         100,000.00            100,000.00
Suspension of 15/09/92
V. 0. 12: Replacement Vehicle                                         17,500.00             17,500.00
V. 0. 13: Pavement Material 0 - 30 Km form Komun River             1,176,000.00                  N/A
V. 0. 13: Aggregate other than Pavement from Modilon in lieu of     320,000.00             306,523.18
Yombi for the Section from 0 - 30 Km
V. 0. 14: Standby Costs 12/09/92 and 15 to 31/10/92                  72,789.45              72,789.45
V. 0. 16: Standby Costs 1/11/92 to 24/11/92                           12,410.31             12,410.31
V. 0. 17: Gravel Payments Komun River                                 10,512.00             10,512.00
V. 0. 18: Trial Crush, Yombi Gravel                                   19,354.50             19,354.50
V. 0. 19: Purchase Steel Pipes                                        8,007.68               8,007.68
V. 0. 21: Crusher Mobilization                                       158,430.00            158,430.00
V. 0. 22: Repairs to Police Bus                                       8,514.00               8,514.00
V. 0. 23: Replacement of Stolen Vehicle                               9,680.00               9,680.00
V. 0. 24: Additional Kerb                                             7,048.37               7,043.87
V. 0. 25: Removal of Culvert at 16+891                                4,005.10                4005.11
V. 0. 32: Replacement of C&D 2                                       30,989.78              22,436.52
V. 0. 33: Replacement of C&D 3                                        10,350.00             10,350.00
Subtotal                                                           6,939,229.95          2,945,035.38
6.2 Law & Order
Claimed (K)           Assessed (K)
2.04 Road Blockage at 16+000                                         26,884.54              21,357.00
2.06 Disruption in Mt. Hagen                                          14,385.37              7,093.20
2.15 Stoppage Due to Fatal Accident 30/03/93                        243,591.02             215,030.00
2.16 Crusher Plant Standby (May - August 1993)                      397,481.53             225,016.84
2.17 Vandalism Equipment 17+000                                       7,818.92               4,511.00
2.20 Hijack of Dump Truck                                             13,326.12              8,772.00
2.43 Non-availability of sealing Equipment                            8,098.23               6,354.00
2.44 Blockade                                                        40,953.05              24,499.00
2.45 Work Stoppage 44+800 to 47+000                                  28,537.00               9,660.00
2.65 Work Stoppage - Shooting                                        23,282.20              13,788.00
2.67 Holdup and Robbery                                               7,267.34               7,012.00
2.01 Various Small Law and Order to Stoppages from 1/3/93 to         41,018.72              23,487.85
2.97.3 30th September 1994
2.21 Security & Replacement of Survey to Pegs 1/3/93 to 2.62M        79,292.31              42,023.00



28
28th February 1995
2.18 Hijacking, Vandalism and Robberies to 1/3/93 to 2.97.1 30-Sept-94  12,591.16             7,795.95
2.32 Stoppages Yombi Pit and Crusher to 01/10/93 to 2.96.2 30-Sept-94  71,297.46             40,714.00
2.98 Assault Case 20/08/94                                           324,596.27          Being Assessed
2.99 Fatal Accident 11/9/94                                           134,277.50         Being Assessed
2.100.1 Yombi Pit Access Road Blockage                                73,235.65          Being Assessed
2.100.3 Yombi Pit Stoppage (12th - 14th November)                      4,593.50          Being Assessed
2.100.4 Vandalism Roller                                               12,309.02         Being Assessed
2.100.5 Yombi Pit Stoppage (20th November)                             2,250.00          Being Assessed
2.100.6 Standby Final Trim                                             3.654. 10         Being Assessed
2.100.7 Vandalism of Excavator                                          1,370.00         Being Assessed
2.100.8 Stolen Water Pump                                              2,780.40          Being Assessed
2.100.9 Work Stoppage at 25+400                                          326.00          Being Assessed
2.100.10 Standby of Crusher                                            15,532.00         Being Assessed
2.101.1 Various Stoppages to Yombi and Crusher                         7,741.41          Being Assessed
2.101.6 Equipment held at Yombi to 2.101.7                            24,433.50          Being Assessed
Subtotal                                                            1,629,129.35            657,113.84
3.00 Out of Sequence Work
3.01 Various Claims from 1/5/93 to 3.14 30th-June-1994                78,411.89               12,032.40
3.15 Extra Benching at 39+425                                          3,578.79          Being Assessed
Subtotal                                                              81,990.68              12,032.40
5.00 General Claims
5.14 Pavement Reinstatement after May 92 Suspension.                 308,236.16             268,353.96
5.31 Extra Public Holiday (26/7/93)                                    7,758.30               4.232.00
5.33/ Maintenance Highway past 5.37/ Ialibu 1/3/93 to 31/3/95 5.41/5.43  488,591.92      Being Assessed
5.34 Subgrade Preparation                                             12,608.23               7,926.00
5.36 Bune Pit Development                                             70,428.83              57,990.00
5.38/ Working Bune                                                   384,260.00          Being Assessed
Pit
5.42 Materials in Subgrade 1/11/93 to 31/12/94
5.44 Work on Culvert No. 197                                         189,695.00          Being Assessed
5.50 Soft Areas Digouts 40+000 to 45+000 1/3/94 to 31/5/94            57,697.79          Being Assessed
5.54 Extra Public Holiday (10/6/94)                                    9,075.92               4,950.00
5.01 Various Minor General Claims 20/01/93 to 30/07/94                60,167.85              18,805.27
5.53 Abortive Work Lined Drain                                          1,383.51                963.00
5.57 Umi Bridge Cartage Costs                                            524.67          Being Assessed
5.58  Amendments to Lined Drain                                        1,383.51                   N/A
5.59 Standby of Subgrade Crew                                            524.67          Being Assessed
5.60 Devaluation Claim (value will eventually depend on exchange rate  1,431,637.00      Being Assessed
at dates when various program payments are made)
Extra payment to adjust Claims settled before 23rd September
1994 Determination of Groups 1, 2+19 Claim                       35,838.00                  N/A
5.61 Holiday Pay (extended period)                                    82,283.20                   N/A
5.62.66 Various Claims for Drainage and Gabion Work                   22,783.62          Being Assessed
5.68 Default - Reduction Work Rates                                   60,208.00          Being Assessed
5.69 Suspension of 3.5 Km.                                          1,149,633.60         Being Assessed
5.70 Extra Groups 1. 2 and 19 Consultancy Input                      244,800.00         Being Assessed
5.30/ Groups 1, 2 and 19 Claim 5.56 for 32.6 months and 197,000/mth  6,431,375.34
Subtotal                                                           10,966,703.74            363,220.23
Total                                                              19,616,963.72          3,978,401.85
Source: Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off Monthly Report No. 52, April 1995.



29
Annex B: Table 2C: Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off Road Section Reconstruction
Extension of Time.
Cause for Extension                                                 Days   Date for Com
Extensions of Time for Suspension of 27th of November 1990.         155    04 May 1993
Extensions of Time for Tribal Fights 7th and 11th of November 1991.   2    06 May 1993
Extension of Time Agreed on the 15th of May Meeting.                396    06 May 1994
Extension of Time Suspension Order of the 15th of September 1992.    71    16th August 1994
Extension of Time to Remobilize for Lined Drains after the
Suspension of Work was lifted on the 24 of November 1992.          14    30th August 1994
Extension of Time due to additional work, Law and Order Problems,
Extraordinary Wet Conditions.                                     71    09th November 1994
Extension of Time due to Law and Order Shorncliffe Holdup.           91    08th February 1995
Extension of Time due to Law and Order and Extra Work Associated
with Bune Scoria.                                                 49    29th March 1995
Extension of Time due to Law and Order Problems and Default.         42    12th May 1995
Annex B: Table 3: Togobu-Ialibu Turnoff Project: Summary of Implementation
Expenditures
(thousands of Kina)
Extension of Time Revised Approved   Value    % of Financial     Cost per
Sample Date       Granted (days)   and/or Estimates   Certified   Completion        (km)
Oct-90                          13,540            1,399         10.3             271
May-91           155             14,971           2,234         14.2             299
Aug-91           155             17,839           3,471         19.5             357
June - July 1992     553            18,227            7,736         42.4             365
Sep-92           553            22,250            8,448         38.0             445
Dec 1993 -June 1994    709            31,500           19,918         63.0             630
Jun-94           800            31,500           23,685         75.2             630
Feb-95           949            39,083           32,729         84.0             782
Mar-95           993            39,083            32,934        84.0             782
Apr-95           993           53,373/a            n/a          n/a             1000
Oct-95           993           42.780/b          39,337         92.0             866
Source: Compiled from various Togoba-Ialibu Turn-Off Reports
/a Claimed by contractor, verified by supenising consultants, but as of today not yet approved nor paid by
Government.



30
Annex B: Table 4: Program for Resealing/Regravelling of Airstrips, Taxiways and Aprons
Type of work/airport         Quantity    Planned           Actual       Appraisal  Actual
(n 2000) Start/Complete  Started  Complete  (K 000)  (K 000)
d
Resealing of Runwavs.Taxiwavs and Aprons
Chimbu                        38        86/86      Apr-89    Jul-88      100      124
Kavieng                       53        87/87      Apr-88    Jul-88     300       332
Kerema                        20        89/89       Jan-88    Apr-88     150      247
Lae (fund transferred)       119        87/87        N/A      N/A       295       N/A
Mendi (No FA disbursed)       56        89/89       Oct-89   Mar-90     220       N/A
Rabaul                        60        87/87       Sep-87   Sep-87      132      131
Wewak                        61         88/88      Sep-88   Dec-88       170      238
Kiunga (deleted)              56        86/86       Sep-91    N/A       300       N/A
Nadzab2                      N/A        N/A        Jun-92   Dec-92       0        0.0
Tokua Airport                N/A         94          94        95       N/A       1705
Wapenamanda                  N/A        N/A        Aug-91   Nov-91      N/A       509
Jackson (misprocured)        N/A        N/A          N/A      N/A       4200      N/A
Daru/Fund applied to Tokual    57       87/87        N/A      N/A       207       N/A
Subtotal                  520                                        6074      1581
Regravelling of Runways. Taxiways and Aprons
Bialla                        21        87/87       Jul-87    Sep-87     50        48
Buka                          25        87/87      Jun-87   Aug-87       127      103
Kiriwina                      54        86/86      Jun-87   Aug-87       100      101
Subtotal                  100                                         277      252
Improvement of Fire Sations. Control Towers and Damages
Madang                      item        87/88       Jul-87    Dec-87     32        31
Kieta (put off: civil disorder)   item  88/88        N/A      N/A       314       N/A
Goroka2                     item        88/89       N/A       N/A       217       N/A
Mount Hagen                 item        87/87      Jun-90    Sep-90      80       N/A
Port Morseby (Accom)         N/A        N/A        Apr-92   Aug-93    N/A         501
Jackson Airport Development3   N/A      N/A        Apr-92   Jun-93      N/A       N/A
Subtotal                                                             643       532
Total                     620                                        2794      2365
1. Tokua Airport - Airport improvement was funded under the loan under emergency works (cost K 507,000).
2. Fund transferred to finance technical assistance.
3. OECF funding.



31
Annex B: Table 5: List of Consultant Services
Actual                    Estimated Cost       Actual Cost
Item                                              Start      Complete          (K 000)            (K' 000)
Detailed Engineering
Togoba-Kaupena-Ialibu Turn-Off road (in house)  N/A         N/A               550                N/A
Bundi access road (transferred from Loan 2265)  May-92     Jun-93                                507
Bridge rehabilitation/replacement program     Jan-91       Sep-93             550                507
Subtotal                                                                  1100               1004
Construction Supervision
Mai-Buvusi road                                N/A          N/A               140                262
Togoba-Kaupena-lalibu Turn-Off road /1        Aug-90       Jun-95             650               2650
Alotau-Gurney road (deleted)                   N/A          N/A               182                N/A
Regravelling of national roads (super vision FA)  N/A       N/A               250                N/A
Bridge rehabilitation and replacement program  Sep-90      Dec-94             490                1252
Resealing of runways, Jackson Airport
(misprocurred)                              Jul-91       Jan-92             140               N/A
Subtotal                                                                  1852               4164
Feasibility Studies
Port Moresby Road Needs Study                  Mar-90       Oct-90             483                531
Lalibu-Mendi and Ramu-Usino Study              Jan-90       Jun-90             164                164
Veinauri-Tapini Study                          Mar-90       Jul-90             141                141
Vanimo-Aitape Route Study                      Apr-90       Oct-90             262                262
Transport Efficiency Study                     Feb-90       Feb-91             670                680
Post-Investment Evaluation Phase I             Apr-90        N/A               149                149
Fangalawa-Namatanai Road Study                 Oct-91      May-92              200                217
Tuanumbu-Lumi Road Study                       Sep-91       Jun-93             191                191
Port Moresby PMV Study                          N/A          N/A              N/A                 36
Urb Transport Planning Study, Lae, Mdg, Rab    Aug-91       Jun-93            N/A                 542
Tech Assistance to Secretary                    N/A          N/A              N/A                 20
Road Act Development/Road Safety Studies        N/A          N/A              N/A                  0
Miscellaneous Items                           N/A         N/A               N/A                440
Subtotal                                           350
Total                                                                         5212               8676
/1 Up to December 31, 1993.



32
Annex B: Table 6: List of Technical Assistance and Training
Actual    Actual       Estimated Cost            Actual Cost
Item                                              Start    Complete         (K'000)                 (K' 000)
Technical Assistance to the Department of Transport
Operations and Administration, Stage 1                                      154                     117
Operations and Administration, Stage 2                                     1088                      0
Subtotal                                                                     1242                     117
Technical Assistance to the Department of Works
Gravel Pit Inventory                           Sep-90    Jun-92            560                     1147
Coronous Materials Research                    Feb-92    Dec-93            270                      553
Assist Domestic Civil Engineering Industiy     Oct-92     Oct-94            528                     498
Review Contract Documents                       N/A        N/A             N/A                     268
Subtotal                                                                     1358                    2242
Technical Assistance to the Department of Civil
Aviation and Tourism
One aviation economist and one policy planner   N/A        N/A             440                     N/A
Data compilation advisor                        NIA        N/A              66                     N/A
Two aviation technical experts                  N/A        N/A              20                     N/A
Subtotal                                                                      526                    1500
Training and Assistance to the Existing Training
Centers
Department of Transport                         NIA        N/A             N/A                      304
Department of Works                             N/A       Jun-94           N/A                      14
Subtotal                                                                      200                     318
Annex B: Table 7: Japanese Grant Trust Fund 22820
(Associated Project)
Actual   Completion      Estimated Cost             Actual Cost
Item                                       Start      Date            (K' 000)                  (K' 000)
Road Inventory and
Road Maintenance Feasibility Study       Sep-94      Jul-95             600                       N/A
Kwikila-Kupiano-Safia-Bareji Road Study
and Design Project                       Sep-94      Jul-95             287                       N/a
Total                                                                   887



33
Annex B: Table 8A: Rehabilitation and Replacement of Bridges
Year                     Length    Cost (K 000)
Bridge Name                 Programmed/         Started       Completed    (m)  Estimate   Actual
total                                                     d
Bridges
Completed Under Loan 2742-PNG
Saa, Enga Hwy               1988                Mar-87         Oct-87        30       80       117
Mairi, H'lnds Hwy           1991                Mar-92         Dec-92        61      250       469
Nurape, H'lnds Hwy          1991                Mar-92         Nov-92        45      180       558
Nou & Mayiam                1992                 1992          Oct-93        31      N/A       510
Walmegol E. & W.            1992                 1992          Oct-93        36      N/A      697
Bora, Warias                1993-1994            1993          Aug-93        42      N/A      604
Padivalongor ENBP           1993-1994           Oct-92         Apr-93        22      N/A      419
Subtotal                7                                                267     510      3340
Designed Completed Under Loan 2742-PNG
Kohu        design ready    1992                 N/A            N/A          20      100      N/A
Yakumba   design ready      1992                 N/A             N/A        N/A      N/A      N/A
6 Crossings design ready    1992                 N/A            N/A         N/A      N/A      N/A
Subtotal                8                                               N/A
Sources:
Transport Improvement Project, Loan 2742 -PNG, 15 December 1994, and
DOW Bridge Replacement and Rehabilitation Program, Proposals for Phase V 1987 - 1990 and Phase V 1991.



34
Annex B: Table 8B: Bridges Selected During Project Implementation but Were Eventually not Financed
Under Loan 2742-PNG
Programmed/        Year                        Length      Cost (K 000)
Bridge Name             Total              Started      Completed        (m)  Estimated   Actual
Completed Under Loan 2265-PNG
Boku, Rmu. Hwy          1992              N/A              N/A          N/A      N/A        N/A
Mangani, S.H. Hwy       1992              N/A              N/A           N/A      N/A        N/A
Yanama, Rmu Hwy         1988            Jun-87          Feb-88          20       100        N/A
ugil, C'st Hwy        1988            Jan-88          Dec-88          25       115        N/A
Mea, deck replacement  1989             Jan-89          Dec-89         N/A       100        N/A
Usipi 1                 1989            Sep-89          Jan-89          13       60         N/A
Usipi II                1989             N/A             N/A           N/A      N/A         N/A
Menia R T               1990            Mar-90          Jun-90         N/A       70          53
Silo No2, Hiritano Hwy  1990             2/90            9/90          N/A      N/A         N/A
Gabei, Coast Hwy        1990             N/A             N/A           N/A      N/A         N/A
Dagoi                  1990            May-89          Dec-91         N/A       198         N/A
Deigum                 1990            May-89           Sep-90          12       60         N/A
Mill Ck.               1990             Apr-89         Dec-90           13       60         N/A
Coldwater               1990            Oct-89          May-91          15       60         N/A
upu, river trg        1990            Oct-89          Jun-90         N/A       120        N/A
Gogol, river trg        1990            Aug-89          Dec-91         N/A       250        N/A
Sokula                  1991            Nov-92           1993           24       110         0
Subtotal                17                                             158      1826        2560
Completed with State Funds(Force Acount (FA))
oram                  1993-1994       Aug-94          Feb-95          27       N/A         426
Kong Kong               1992             1994            1994           16       60          0
Sowam                   1993-1994        1994            N/A           N/A       N/A      2036
Subtotal           3                                               43        60      2462
Started with FA but not Completed/
mi RV TRG             1990              Sep-90        Mar-92       N/A       200         N/A
ulolo, Nat. Hwy        1990             Jul-90         Jan-92       34       220         N/A
ine Tops, Nat. Hwy     1990             Aug-90        Dec-91        34       218          N/A
uumeng, Nat. Hwy        1990             Sep-90        Dec-90        50       85          N/A
riri, Hirit, Hwy      1991               N/A          Dec-93        32      N/A          N/A
Gilagil R T             1991              N/A            N/A        N/A       250          N/A
Awar, Cost Hwy          1991              N/A            N/A         18       N/A          N/A
Subtotal            7                                            168      973
DropPed
amai, Hirit. Hwy      1993-1994          N/A           N/A          28       298         N/A
larowari                1993-1994         N/A            N/A          6        80          N/A
alagima               1993-1994          N/A           N/A          18       135         N/A
Sakula No2              1993-1994         N/A            N/A         24       150          N/A
okia                   1993-1994         N/A           N/A          36       350         N/A
aringa                 1993-1994         N/A            N/A        N/A       130          N/A
Chaloar                 1993-1994         N/A            N/A         15       250          N/A
emeing                 1993-1994         N/A            N/A         8        200         N/A
Pultaur                 1993-1994         N/A            N/A          9       200         N/A
amale                 1993-1994          N/A           N/A          6        200         N/A
6 Crossings             1993-1994         N/A            N/A         130      1800         N/A
Subtotal            17                                           280      3793
Total                  44



WORLD BANK (IBRD) LOAN No 2742(PNG)         Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)        Pagel of 9
BORROWER' S EVALUATION REPORT
1    INTRODUCTION
This Borrower's Evaluation Report has been prepared in accordance
with the Bank's Operation Manual requirements (OP13.55 April
1994). As the Loan provided for projects by a number of National
Government Departments, much of the administration and reporting
during the period of the Loan was carried out by, or co-ordinated
by,  the Department of IWIorks. This final Evaluation Report has
therefore been prepared by the Department of Works, with
information where available from the relevant Departments.
This part of the Evaluation Report assesses the application of the
Loan overall. The final remarks refer to experience with the Loan,
lessons learned and broader matters which should be taken into
account when preparing for loans in the future.
Because of  the wide  range  of projects  carried  out over  the
relatively long period of the Loan, under a very wide range of
conditions,  comments  and  assessments  relating  to  individual
projects under the Loan are detailed in Appendix A.
The  Loan  Agreement  was  dated  17  April  1987.  The  Loan  was
originally due for completion on 31 December 1991. Because of the *
slower rate of progress than originally intended, the Loan closing
date was extended to 30 June 1993 and then to 31 December 1994.
The original amount of the Loan was US$45,500,000. Because of
misprocurement in the letting of the contract for resheeting of
Jackson's Airport, which was fully documented at the time, the
amount of the Loan was reduced to US$42,820,000 by deleting the
value of this work and also deleting the value of the
corresponding supervision consultancy.
The funds allocated to the major categories under the Loan, both
initially and after the above reductions, are listed in
Appendix A.
Following a series of Natural Disasters in 1994 the Bank approved
several reinstatement projects for urgent funding under the
provision for unallocated work. This not only assisted in setting
such work in motion, but helped to ensure that the funds under the
Loan would be usefully applied.
Towards the end of 1994, when the National Government experienced
a serious cashflow shortfall, the Bank encouraged the adoption of
Procecedure 3 for disbursements to enable direct payments to be
made by the Bank to contractors and consultants involved in
projects under the Loan.
The Loan has been fully drawn down in the amount of US$42,820,000.



-2-                       Appendix A
Page 2 of 9
2    CONSIDERATION OF THE LOAN OVERALL
In considering the effectiveness of the Loan overall, the
following  matters  have  been  noted   for - attention,   where
appropriate, in preparations for future loans. Some of them were
recognised in the Appraisal Report, but they have still not been
fully overcome.
a)   Atoraisals and Loan Nerotiations
Experience indicates that for a number of reasons, the initial
appraisals and negotiations for loans are carried out in a hurry.
There is insufficient time and opportunity for all stakeholders to
digest proposals and loan conditions or to comment constructively.
It is usually only a small number of officers who are involved on
the Borrower's side. Generally these do not include offi-ers who
will be more closely involved with the actual implementation of
the loan's components.
As a result, some components of appraisals are either misjudged or
inaccurate. Similarly conditions of the loan agreement may be
unrealistic or inappropriate.
b)    Appraisal Estimates
Some project appraisal estimates were low, compared with actual
final costs. These would be better if based on detailed estimates
for the particular project item. While allowance for cost rises
was made in the overall appraisal under "Contingencies", the
tendency is to compare the final cost for a particular project
with the figure shown in the appraisal. It would be better if
appraisals reflected the likely costs at the time it is expected
that the work would take place, ie allowing for inflation and all
other cost factors. In the case of bridgeworks the cost of
approaches are usually included in the bridge contract but are not
normally assessable at the time of appraisal and therefore should
be provided for under a contingency allowance..
c)   Provision of Funds in National Budgets -
In various cases, funding was not provided in National Budgets at
a rate that would allow all projects under the Loan to be
completed within the period of the Loan. Reasons for this could be
as follows, but are not necessarily limited to those listed -
*    Budget Proposals from participating Departments reduced
or not included in National Budgets.
*    Funds not provided for land acquisition, investigations
or technical designs necessary before physical work could
proceed.
*    Perceived  "less  imnediate"  projects  not  funded  in
National Budgets, eg items relating to maintenance, training,
purchase cf material.



Appendix A
-3-
Page 3 of 9
Often, it appeared that, under PNGs system for drawing-down from
the Loan, it was overlooked that a project with funds allowed
under the Loan could not proceed until the appropriate provision
had been made for it in the National Budget.  The adoption of
Procedure 3 for Disbursements towards the end of the Loan, was
agreed to by Department of Finance and Planning only on the basis
that there had been appropriation in the National Budget for the
particular projects. This is a matter which needs to be addressed
in framing future Loans.
The State did not always meet the requirement of Section 3.01(a)
of the Loan Agreement to provide the funds "promptly as needed".
Framers of new loans and of national budgets, at all levels,
should be aware of conditions such as these.
In general, only projects that can clearly be completed within the
proposed period of the Loan should be listed. This relates to
design matters, land acquisition and recognition of the State's
ability or otherwise to fund its share of the work within the
required period. This will involve consideration of the priority
of proposed work with other projects which will be competing for
funds under the same national budgets. This may be difficult as
provisions in the National Budget are determined by NEC. Provision
for a particular activity in a Loan, eg Road Maintenance, does not
necessarily  mean  that  the  activity   (in  this  case,   Road
Maintenance) would receive a corresponding increase in the
National Budget.
d)   Trainina of Local Staff and Envlovees -
The need for training local officers received significant mention
in the Appraisal Report, Sections 1 and 2.
As indicated by the expenditure under Item C.3 of Appendix A,
senior and middle management officers of both Department of
Transport and Department of Works were sent to courses overseas or
to in-service training in related overseas authorities.
In the execution of various consultancies under the Loan,
provision was made for local counterpart participation. On the
Togoba-Ialibu project, National Engineers and Technicians worked
under the supervision consultant, a National Surveyor worked with
the consultant's team and various University students worked
during vacations in the site materials laboratory. Where possible
under the Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Supervision
Consultancy, locdl Engineers, Supervisors and Foremen received on-
site  training  and  experience.  Various  works  and  technical
assistance projects gave incidental opportunity for local staff to
receive training and/or experience.
There is still a need to increase the number of local professional
people and para-professional people produced by PNG tertiary
institutions to meet overall needs and t.o reduce the continuing
shortages  of  qualified  national  staff"  referred  to  in  the
Appraisal Report pl7. Lower cost methods of train-ng senior and



Appendix A
Page 4 of 9
middle management staff also need to be investigated, eg
residential short courses in management or technical matters
conducted in PNG for a greater number, rather than a relative few
sent to courses overseas. Such courses could be readily arranged
with overseas universities, colleges and utility authorities on a
commercial basis and could be provided for under future loans.
e)   Bank Supervision and Liason
i)   Bank Missions
It is assumed that loans are provided to developing countries to
assist those countries where such a need exists. On this basis the
Supervision Missions from the Bank should also be for the purpose
of assistance. This can only be satisfacorily achieved if the
visiting Bank Officers/Consultants have the appropriate knowledge
of the conditions, circumstances and systems operating and
applying to the Borrower and its implementing agencies.
Continually "re-inventing the wheel" achieves nothing for the
Borrower except confusion and instability.    Deletion
ii) Communication between Bank and Borrower
The November 1992 Supervision Mission expressed concern (Aide
Memoire, 18 November 1992) at the direction taken in the ICAO
technical assistance project to Department of Civil Aviation. This
had been proceeding since June 1990. The previous Supervision
Mission visited in Mid 1991. In the time between mission visits,
the project made considerable progress, but the November 1992
Mission recommended a re-examination of ICAO proposals. From this
two considerations arise -
*    The Bank's views and those of a Borrower may not always
co-incide.   This may require discussion at government level
to ensure that the true policies of the Government are being
reflected,  whichever  course  is adopted.  In any case  all
stakeholders should be represented in these considerations. -
If the Bank wishes to have more direct input, more frequent
contact by the Bank is required, to avoid considerable
expenditure in a direction with which the Bank might not
agree. Dependent on the number of loans current at a
particular  time  this  could  warrant  a  full-time  Bank
representative in the country to facilitate such liason.
From time to time, Department of Works in its monitoring role has
experienced difficulty in obtaining information for reports, etc,
from certain participating Departments, inspite of repeated
reminders. (See comments in various quarterly reports). Such
difficulties would be overcome if there were a full-time Bank
representative as referred to above, with sufficient authority to
adjudicate  in such situations and also to examine disbursement
applications hefore they are passed to OIDA for transmission to
the Bank for payment.



Appendix A
-5-                    Page 5 of 9
The continued presence of a Bank representative would lead to
better communication and would facilitate the flow of submissions
and approvals, thus assisting in timely execution of work and
projects under a loan.
iii) Procurement Procedures
a)   Materials and Services
When the Borrower has established acceptable procedures for
purchase of materials and services, it is difficult to see why the
Bank's procedures need to be applied, except that they are
provided for in the Loan agreement, eg
There were proposals to purchase Bailey type bridge parts for
emergency stocks towards the end of the Loan. The existing
DoW Periodic Supply Agreement, used routinely for the
purchase of this type of equipment was not acceptable to the
Bank. The need to draw up purchase documents/specifications
and proceed to ICB caused delay as well as overloading the
already very limited staff capacities. Time and subsequent
events precluded this much needed emergency equipment being
funded under  the Loan,  so  that  the effort  involved was
wasted. This has now been provided for under another loan.
b)   Consultancies
Visiting Missions have commented on the need for inviting of
proposals for consultancies on a broader or international basis.
This ignores the need, eg in bridgework, to foster local
consultants and to ensure that work is shared equitably amongst
the local consultants where they are suitable, to ensure their
continued viability.
c)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
The Bank's rigid requirements for ICB, whilst achieving the stated
purposes of the Bank, frequently have negative effects or even
counter productive effects, eg
*    Local ConLractors (Domestic Industry) - Local contractors may
be deterred from tendering for larger works, knowing that larger
international contractors will be involved. This could have an
inhibiting effect on the growth of local contractors, even into
the lower end of the scale for ICB work. This would be contrary to
the intention to encourage a viable local contracting industry.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 9
*    Sensitive Issues (Land, etc) - It is difficult to quantify
and cost the effect of the reactions of contractors from different
backgrounds to unexpected problems, peculiar to PNG, when
assessing tenders. Such effects may increase the final cost of a
contract through contractor's claims and longer than expected time
periods for supervision consultancies.
*    Inexperienced Contractors - This may evidence itself through
a contractor's handling of nearby landowners, practices in
engagement of local labour or in manipulating local natural
resources. These also may result in increased costs, not easily
assessed when tenders are being considered. The results in some
such cases have been described as disastrous.
d)   General
When objections have been raised with visiting Missions, to
certain Bank requirements, the response has sometimes been that
this is what was agreed to in the original Agreement. The
implication has been that if the Borrower had sought alternative
provisions, they might have been allowed. Once the Agreement is
signed, visiting Bank Officers appear inflexible as far as
amendments to the Agreement are concerned.
As indicated above, input to future loans should be obtained from
as many of  those  likely  to participate  in  its execution  as
possible, to ensure that timing, objectives, costs and required
procedures are realistic.
3    ASSESSMENT OF APPLICATION OF LOAN No 2742 (PNG)
a)   Execution and Operation - Generally satisfactory, but would
have been better if Loan had been disbursed within initial
period.
b)   Costs and Benefits- - As noted for (a) above. Slower progress
inevitably      led  to  increased  costs,   particularly  where
expenditure was      related to time. Flow through of benefits was
delayed   accordingly.
Except for the Togoba-Ialibu project, cost benefits have been
considered in this Report only on a qualitative basis. Data
and staff necessary for detailed calculations are generally
not readily available for all projects. The principal concern
has been increased safety, amenity and reliability provided
by each new road and bridgework. Studies and technical
assistance projects have been consider-ed to provide a basis
without which further progress is not possible. The benefits
of such projects are therefore considerable.
c)  Bank and Borrower Performance - Bank - Satisfactory
Borroan%er - Generally satisfactory so far as results achieved
were concerned. Less than satisfactory so far as timely



Appendix A
Page 7 of 9
provision of funds by  the Borrower was concexLiea ana in
relation to administration of land matters which affected the
progress of work.
d)   Achievement of Purposes of Loan - Due to changing
circumstances through the long period of the Loan, the
relative priorities of the project categories changed, eg
inclusion of provision for emergency work. Subject to this
comment and except for problems with particular projects, eg
Togoba-Ialibu construction, the Purposes of the Loan were
generally satisfactorily achieved.
e)   Effectiveness of Bank/Borrower Relationship -, Subject to
the conditions of the Loan, the Bank's staff'were helpful and
co-operative to the extent that they could be. As indicated
above, communication could be improved by the continued
presence of a Bank representative. Good relations existed
between   Bank's   and   Borrower's   staff.   Under  present
arrangements, the   effectiveness  of the relationship was
satisfactory.
4    CONCLUSION
* Lack of staff continuity within government authorities remains
a problem. This has been highlighted in the collection of
information for this report from the various participating
authorities. It is therefore essential that everything possible be
done to ensure that the lessons learned and the experience gained-
in the application of this Loan are disseminated and applied in
preparartions for future loans.
* Within the customary and cultural procedures for acquiring land
the State needs to develop a system which will remove the
situations   which   disrupt   all   aspects   of   infrastructure
development. This is a matter for government, rather than for the
implementing departments, but the Bank must be fully aware of the
requirements.
* When a loan is agreed to, the commitment of the Borrower to
provide its share of the funds has to be maintained. Otherwise
loans will be extended with corresponding cost escalation.
*  Depending on the number of horld Bank Loans current in Papua
New Guinea at any one time, application and administration of the
Loan could be improved by the presence of an authorised Bank
Representative   in  Papua  New  Guinea.   This   would   improve
communication between the Bank and participating authorities and
would  facilitate  the  administration  necessary  to  ensure  that
projects are completed on time.
*    The performance  under  future  loans would be considerably
improved if the matters referred to above are brought to the
attention of those likely to be involved.



Appendix A
-8-                       Page 8 of 9
*    There is a view that in the past,  loans have been entered
into in the belief that by the mid 1990's, the Papua New Guinea
economy would be expanding, thus facilitating the funding of works
and repayment of loans. Experience has proved to be different as,
whilst the economy may be expanding, the lack-of availability of
actual cash has severely restricted the implementation process.
The priority given to the allocation of cash for debt servicing
and the implementation of donor-funded projects have, in 1995, so
restricted the availability of cash, that virtually NO maintenance
of assets (especially roads) has been carried out in the first
half of the year. The cost of this to the State and its long-term
effects, have yet to be assessed.
This indicates a need for caution in appraising of loan projects,
in assessing the overall national priority of competing projects
and in provision for repayment of loans.



Appendix A
-9-                     Page 9 of 9
WORLD BANK (IBRD) LOAN No 2742(PNG)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORTD
APPENDIX A
INDEX
A    CrVIL WORK
A.1  Improvement of National Roads (DoW)                     Page 1
A.2  Bridge Rehabilitation & Replacement (DoW)               Page 3
A.3  Regravelling of National Roads (DoW)                    Page 3
A.4  Improvement of National Airports (DCA)                  Page 4
B    EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
B.l.lRoad Maintenance Equipment (DoW)                        Page 4
B.1.2Laboratory Equipment (DoW)                              Page 4
B.1.3Maintenance Materials (DoW)                             Page 4
B.2  Airport Maintenance                                     Page 5
C    CONSULTING SERVICES
C.l.lDetailed Engineering (DoW)                              Page 5
C.1.2Consultant Supervision (DoW)                            Page 6
C.1.3Studies for Future Projects (DoT)                       Page 7
C.2.1A    Technical Assistance - Ops atid Admin (DoT)        Page 7
C.2.1B    SNAPEM II (DoFP)                                   Page 7
C.2.2a)    Gravel Pit Inventory  (DoW)                       Page 8
C.2.2b)    Coronous Materials Research  (DoW)                Page 8
C.2.2c)    Assist-Local CE Industry (DCI)                    Page 8
C.2.2d)    Review Contract Documents  (DoW)                  Page 9
C.2.30perations and Training  (DCA)                          Page 9
C.3.1l'raining  (DoT)                                        Page 9
C.3.2Training  (DoTW)                                        Page 9
C.4  Transitional Training Unit ( MU j                       Page 10
E    EMERGENCY WORK
E.1  Tokua Access Road (DoW)                                 Page 10
E.2  Tokua Airport - Aprons, Taxiways, etc (DoW)             Page 10
E.3  Umi Bridge Restoration  (DoW)                           Page 11
E.4  Southern Highlands Flood Restoration  (DoW)             Page 11
SCHEDULE 2                                                   Page 12



MAP SECTION






-                 ~~~~IBRD  19.-
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Wr E 5 T'TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    IAVONGAI
S E / K               EAST   SEPf/ K             jo-
TAR OR
*  *                                                         ;                                       <           T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IASDLANRDS
3' iI-          j                               4 l~. -  _                                                                                                                        LIHIR    GROUP
._ -..-                                                                                    NEW IRElAND    I
TANGA ISLANDS
MA N U S                      NEW   /REZAND                                      NoDoiana,
FENI ISLANDS
Robovl                       BOUGAINV/LLE
'   '''          !         >,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',                                                                              -  "'     , 
M A  D  A  N )G\   . s/                        WEST NEW   8k/TA/N                                   \  4a'   I
,,-  ,'    ,/'    )'                               ,/'                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  / t,,   
W  E    T  NSEW           R       INEW BRITAIN
H/GH!A/VDS>g \ o | i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED PROJECT
T I ~            STHgwysScin
_   _   -/ H              -                       M R       E                                 NEW   8/ BTA/N           S            Airports
PREVIOUS PROJECTS
\Ko .k                                                                                                                                   Road Construction and improvementR
WESTERN            \F;IRSC.T|                                                                                                    I                                           r FIRST PROJECT LOAN 693 CREDIT 204 PNG
*SECOND PROJECT CREDIT 677 PNG
{THIRD PROJECT LOAN 1856 CREDIT 1030 PNG
Road Improvement Project Loan 1 265 PNG
-_->  L  D =--   -   )         Projects by Other Agencies
NORTHERN                                                         Future Major Roads (National)
-_ -    }  s |  L   \  A  National Roads
\ i S K; iii*0l              M alo r  P ro v in c ia l    R o a d s
P, detto                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RiverS
_ s 4- C             B@fUlX ?>J-  ,D O ndel                                            MILNE BAY
Do,.-         !C                                                                                                                                            Mountainous AreMs (2,000 -3,000 Meters)
I ~ ~ ~ ~0\   G U Z F  ~  \OroBo1,   j  -  -  Province Boundaries
-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~01- --    International Boundaries
,-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - * - -  ""'* ~~~~G     U     L     F_                                                                                                                      _ _   _    _ _   _ _   _
PORT MORESBY                                                                                                          PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                                    A - MALAYSIA-       PAPU ',tV, C,WNSA
(!) HIRITAN HIGHWAY    3  ENGA HIGHWAY                        ;
) MAGI HIGHWAY                                                                                                                                                                                          - HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY  0      . -N G  SI
3 NORTHERN IORO) HIGHWAY          (i)   RAMU HIGHWAY            ILOETERS      ,0  80   12        0    KUVOO                  - ^( =        A AtIo.               ,                            .-I
li NATIONAL HIGHWAY                  09  COASTAL HIGHWAY            MILES                                         GED O'
3 SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY  (I NEW BRITAIN HIGHWAY                20   40  60 5   0           10
s  147'     -  -  =                 .-  -    I   150-                                                     A U          T
FEBRUARY 19'S









IMAGING
Report No:       152839
Type: ICR



