Dommsa of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6107-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENt
Currency Unit - Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.00 = K 1.00
K 1.00   =  US$ 1.00
(As of December 1985)
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT  -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADAB  -  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
BPC   -  Budget Priority Committee
BRRP  -  Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
DCAT  -  Department of Civil Aviation and Tourism
DT    -  Department of Transport
DW    -  Department of Works
EER   -  Economic Rate of Return
FA    -  Force Account
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
NPO   -  National Planning Office
PMFA  -  Project Managed Force Account
PNG   -  Papua New Guinea
PMU   -  Program Management Unit
PTB   -  Plant and Transport Branch
PWMO  -  Provincial Works Manager Office
RMS   -  Road Maintenance Study
RMU   -  Road Maintenance Unit
RWHO  -  Regional Works Manager Office
SDTS  -  Staff Development Training Section
TIPS  -  Transport Investment Program Study
TOPS  -  Transport Operation Policy Study
VOC   -  Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD   -  Vehicle Per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCLPAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:          US$45.5 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The objectives of the project are to: (a) improve land trans-
port through reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of
national roads; (b) enhance improvement of air transport
through equipment replacement, improved safety standards and
periodic maintenance; (c) improve efficiency of road mainte-
nance through provision of road maintenance equipment and
materials; and (d) strengthen institution building and
improve the domestic construction industry through provision
of technical advisory services and training of local staff.
The project includes: (a) reconstruction and upgrading of
about 80 km of national roads; (b) rehabilitation and
replacement of about 50 bridges totaling about 1,100 linear
meters; (c) regravelling of about 500 km of national gravel
roads; (d) provision of road maintenance equipment and
materials; (e) replacement of navigational, meteorological
and communication equipment at 14 national airports and
resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons at
16 airports; (f) technical assistance to Department of Works
(DW), Department of Transport (DT) and Department of Civil
Aviation and Tourism (DCAT) to implement the proposed project
and prepare economic and engineering studies for future
projects; and (g) on-the-job, local and overseas training of
DW, DT and DCAT staff.
The project will reduce vehicle operating costs, improve
safety at airports and strengthen DW, DT and DCAT. The main
project risks are possible delays in imptementing civil works
components because of land acquisition problems and delays in
meeting policy and institutional objectives because of slow
recruitment of necessary e-.patriate staff.  To reduce these
risks, the Government agreed to make available the right-of-
way prior to the bid invitation. The project coordinator was
appointed prior to negotiations to ensure the timely appoint-
ments of technical assistance staff and counterparts to be
trained.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bnlk authortion.



- ii -
Estimated Costs                                         Local   Foreign   Total
---US$ million--
A. Civil Works-
National road construction
and upgrading                                 4.6      8.7       13.3
Bridge rehabilitation and replacement           2.1      4.9        7.0
National road regravelling                      2.0       3.0       5.0
Resealing/regravelling of
runways, taxiways and aprons                  0.8      2.0        2.8
R. Equipment and Materials
Road maintenance equipment and materials         -        5.3       5.3
Airport navigation, meteorological
and communication equipment /a                 -       3.1        3.1
C. Technical Assistance and Training               1.5       7.3       8.8
D. Right-of-Way                                    0.4        -        0.4
Project Base Cost                          11.4     34.3       45.7
E. Coatingencies
Physical contingencies                      1.4      4.2        5.6
Price contingencies                         3.3     10.1       13.4
Total Project Cost lb                    16.1     48.6       64.7
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                    45.5       45.5
ADAB                                             -       3.1        3.1
Government                                     16.1        -       16.1
Total                                     16.1     48.6       64.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
- --- (MS$ million) -        -
Annual                               2.7   7.8  13.4  12.4   7.0   2.2
Cumulative                           2.7  10.5  23.9  36.3  43.3  45.5
Rate of Return: 34X
Staff Appraisal
Report         No. 195533 dated June 3, 1986
Mbp: IBRD 19553
/a  To be financied by ADAB.
/b As of January 1986, and include US$6.6 million for taxes and duties.



- iii -
PAPiUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I*  TRANSPORT SECTOR          ..............................................  1
A.  Economic Setting ..................                     *             1
Bo  Transport System       2..................   ,.                       2
C.  Government Expenditures on Transport Infrastructure    .......        4
D.  Policy, Planning and Coordination .........................           4
E.  Sector Issues and Bank Strategy            ...........................  5
P.  Previous Bank Financed Projects            ...........................  6
II.  THE ROADS  ..........ee@99..9990999**ege*9999.9*9ee999*eee9e@e            7
A.  Tref Network ......     .......................... .. ..............  7
Be Traffic s¢*+*****s*sv****^*es*¢e                                       8
C.  The Road Transport Industry                 8.............            8
D.  Administration, Staff, Training            ...........................  8
E.  Planning and Financing ...         .................................
F.  Engineering ............        ...................................    10
C,  Construction .........        ....................................   10
HS  Maintenance .                                                        12
III* THE PROJECT ...........14 ..........................0    14
A.  Background and Rationale ...           ...............................    14
B.  Objectives .........    .       ..................................    14
C* Main Features *..        ...... .e99,e99999'e9o9ee'            ....... 15
D.  Detailed Description and Status of Preparation          ............    15
E.  Estimated Project Costs ....................................         18
F.  Financing           .......... .                                     20
C.  Auditing ........... .............*                                  20
H.  Project Implementation 9******9******.        .....................    20
I.  Procurement and Right-of-Way Acquisition            ..................    21
J.  Disbursements          ............ ...........  ...............    24
K.  Environmental Aspects  .99*e9...........................             24
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .........................                            24
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries              .........               24
B.  Economic Analysis          ....................................... ..    25
C.  Overall Economic Evaluation            ...............................    27
D.  Risks        ...... .                                                27
The report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission consisting of
Messrs. B. Bjelogrlic (Engineer), G. Trnka (Engineer) and M. Le Blanc
(Economist) who visited Papua New Guinea in October/November 1985.



- iv -
Page No.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND B                                             28
TABLES TO THE MAIN REPORT
1. List of Road Maintenance Equipment..............................    30
2. Airport Equipment Replacement Program ....................    31
3. Program for Rese"ling/Regravelling of Runways,
Taxiways and Aprons...........................................    32
4.  List of Consultant Services....... ...................... .......    33
5.  List of Technical Assistance and Training......................    34
6.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates.................................    35
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.............................    36
ANNEXES
1.  Action Program for Project Implementation..o..... o .... o ..........   137
2.  Project Implementation Schedule.      ..........e..e......*X***..e....   41
2.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Filpe........    42
MAPS
1 IBRD 195533



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      gapua New Guinea (PNG) consists of over 600 isiands with an ares of
461,700 km . The mostly uninhabited islands are spread over 2 million km of
the South Pacific Ocean. The mainland consists of the eastern half of
-New Guinea island bordering with Indonesia. It comprises some 85% of the land
surface. PNG has an extremely rugged topography. The central mountain range
completely divides the north and south. It consists of numerous ranges and
isolated valleys at altitudes between 1,500 and 3,000 m, known as the Central
Highlands. Unstable soil conditions reflect the relatively young geological
age of the highland mountains. The foothills have been deeply cut by river
systems, which has created swamps near the coast, especially in the southwest
and northwest of the mainland. Rainfall averages about 2 m per year; some
areas get more than 4.8 m with a high intensity (up to 200 mm/hour) causing
landslides and constantly changing river patterns. Natural vegetation varies
from dense jungle to bushland. Only about 10% of the land, in small scattered
pockets, is suitable for agriculture. The land is rich in minerals, but for
the most part they are difficult to access.
1.02      Population centers are small, dispersed and isolated; there are more
than 700 tribal groups speaking different languages. Settlements are concen-
trated on the better agricultural lands on the mainland. About one third of
the 3 million inhabitants live in the Central Highlands which occupies about
14X of the land surface. Population densities there reach some 30 persons per
km , about saturation level considering that livelihood depends on small scale
farming. Another third lives on the fertile northern coast of the mainland
where the main city and former capital, Lae, is located. The western swampy
areas of the country are the poorest. Emigration has been steady from both
high density and low economic potential areas to the major islands, where
mining and plantations offer employment, or to main citier, particularly the
new capital, Port Moresby. Still, only some 13% of the population is
considered "urban." As a result of migration, regional population growth
rates vary widely; '-he 1966-1980 censuses imply a 2.3% average growth rate
p.a., but it is believed to have increased, further adding to population
pressure on good land.
1.03      The economy is dependent on imports and .exports, yet due to the
topography, transport is difficult and expensive. The country was largely
developed by air, initially to serve gold fields; the air network is wide-
spread and in some areas is still the only means in and out or the main
transport mode for long distance travel. Many small ports were developed to
serve immediate hinterlands, and shipping remains the main means for long
distance freight. However, roads have been built in the more densely populated
and developed areas. It is estimated that about two-thirds of the population
is now within reach of a road. Roads form isolated sub-networks with the



-2-
recently built 400 km Highlands Highway the exception, alone in serving long
distance traffic.
B The Transport System
1.04      Most transport takes place in the relatively few richer areas,
converging on the main ports of Lae and Port Moresby on the mainland, and on
the plantation and mineral rich islands. In other areas transport flows are
so low that they can hardly justify the provision of even minimum standard
infrastructure; when provided, the infrastructure remains underutilized for a
long time and proves to be costly. However, this is unavoidable if the
scattered populations are not to be cut off.
1.05      Each transport mode is best suited for certain services but they
generally complement each other. Transport volumes remain low: not consider-
ing copper and timber exports, which move through specialized ports, overseas
tonnage totals some 1.4 million tons, of which almost one half is fuel
imports. Coastal shipping carries some 350,000 tons of freight and
26,000 passengers annually. Annual air travel involves about 1.2 million
passengers but only 22 tons of freight. There are no data on traffic volumes
and distances by small boats and trucks, but they would not be as important as
other traffic flows. However, other modes lost freight to road transport as
ncw roads were opened, while passengers continued to prefer air travel.
During the 1980s fuel import volumes have remained relatively stable and would
reflect a stable traffic volume, except for some increase enabled by better
roads or more efficient vehicles or their utilization. The charpcteristics of
each mode are described below.
(a) Road Transport
1.06      Roads and road transport are discussed in detail in Chapter II.
(b) Air Transport
1.07      The infrastructure comprises some 450 aerodromes:  160 are small
private airstrips; 20 at main towns, have runways longer than 1,400 m, are
generally 30 m wide and can handle small jets; 3 are customs airports; and 3,
at Port Moresby, Wewak and Kieta, are international airports although only the
Jackson airport at Port Moresby can handle international long- and medium-haul
aircraft. The airport equipment is rudimentary and in many cases is more than
20 years old. For safety reasons, this equipment urgenly needs to be
replaced, and the project addresses this issue.
1.08      The commercial aircraft fleet consists of about 200 aircraft, mostly
small, suited to the small airfields and low traffic flows. They carried some
800,000 passengers in domestic flights (1983), 600,000 in scheduled flights on
aain routes and 200,000 by charter. Four airlines offer scheduled services,
and 20 carriers operate in the charter market. Air Niugini, the national
airline, has 60Z of the market. While tonnage carried has decreased steadily
to about half its 1975 levels, especially where alternative roads were
improved, passenger traffic has increased slightly.  iir Niugini has scheduled
services to the 20 main airports but overall densities are low.



-3 -
1.09      Despite Air Niugini'a monopoly on high density trunk routes (which
is not fully enforced) and on larger aircraft and the requirement that other
airlines be licensed for scheduled routes, the system is competitive. Fares
are regulated on scheduled routes; despite high load factors on some routes,
even private airlines are not always able to cover their costs. Air Niugini
experiences heavy losses, partly because it uses larger aircraft expensive to
operate. Air fares are not unduly high considering the flying conditions,
high labor cost, seasonal variations in demand and low traffic flows.
International Air Niugini flights carry fewer than 15,000 passengers per
year. These flights became profitable when Air Niugini acquired a wide-bodied
aircraft to operate them.
1.10      A Transport Investment Program Study (TIPS) financed under a Bank
Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG), identified a number of aerodromes
where equipment was critically deficient and posed a major safety risk as well
as those aerodromes where runways, taxiways and aprons required urgent reseal-
ing and/or regravelling to maintain flight operations. The project will
assist the Government by financing the more urgent of these needs (para 3.09
and 3.10).
(c) Maritime Transport
1.11      PNG has 18 relatively well equipped sea and river ports, 16 managed
by the Papua New Guinea Harbors Board and 2 by mining companies, and some 400
small ports. Forestry companies are also developing their own ports. Each
port serves different hinterlands and cannot easily substitute for each
other. They also handle different products whose exports show different
trends; the great variability in traffic flows is not reflected in total
traffic statistics. Two thirds of the overseas traffic corresponds to imports
and the lack of cargo balance and empty returns is likely to persist. In the
1970s imports accounted for practically the full traffic growth; traffic has
declined in recent years reUlecting the world -ecession and loss of traffic to
private ports, especially at Lae, Rabaul and Madang. Overseas traffic
(excluding mine-related traffic) currently is about 1.5 million tons, with
Port Moresby and Lae handling 70X; containerization is rapidly increasing,
even for coastal traffic.
1.12      Coastal shipping volumes also vary considerably over time, but
overall have not decreased in the 1980s: volumes represent some 400,000 tons
per year. The 1983 statistics by the Maritime Division show that some 23,000
passengers and 280,000 tons moved between main ports, 562 originated at Lae,
11% at Port Moresby and 8% at Rabaul. Some 28,000 passengers and about
200,000 tons moved between main and feeders ports with Port Moresby shipping
two thirds due to the Ok Tedi mine development. Only a limited tonnage,
estimated at 2000 tons per year, moves between feeder ports. Some 55% of the
cargo consists of beer and empty bottles, 20% of foodstuffs and 25% of
manufactures.
(d) River Transport
1.13      Small boat services still dominate transport in eight provinces, and
are as important as road transport in another five. It is estimated that



- 4 -
there are some 4,000 small boats less than 10 meters long. Their use is not
regulated although their regulation is now a function of the provincial
governments which are themselves major small boat operators. Only minimum
investments have been made in landing and other small boat facilities.
C. Government Expenditures on Transport Infrastructure
1.14      Of central government's past expenditures on transport infrastruc-
ture, excluding administration roads have absorbed on average some 60%-70% of
the funds. Except for a decrease in 1982, expenditures on roads have steadily
increased, from K30 million in 1980 to K51 million in 1985, with about 601
going towards capital investments. Foreign assistance-has financed the
equivalent of 85Z of capital costs. Aerodromes, their civil works, equipment
and subsector administration, absorbed some 20X. Expenditures in civil
aviation infrastructure decreased in 1983, and have not yet recovered previous
levels; in 1984 they amounted to some K12 million. Expenditures are not
readily split into categories; the subsector received no foreign assistance.
Wharves accounted for only about 5% of central government expenditures, or K2
million in 1984, all domestically financed. Central administration absorbed
between 4% and 10%.
1.15      The National Government's overall expenditures on transport
increased from some K32 million in 1979 to K58 million in 1985.  These
expenditures averaged about 1OZ of the total annual Government budget during
this period. Annual costs for the maintenance of the national road network
during this time have varied between K 11 million and K 21 million for this
period depending on funds available rather than requirements. While the
highway system had not increased substantially over this period, DW reports
that maintenance budget requirements are rising appreciably due to increasing
costs. Budgetary allocations for maintenance of airports have increased from
K 1.0 million to K4.4 million , with an average increase of about 30%, and
present allocations are considered adequate.
D. Policy Planning and Coordination
1.16      Various departments are responsible at the national level for
transport organization, policy and infrastructure: The Department of
Transport (DT), the Department of Works (DW) and the Department of Civil
Aviation and Tourism (DCAT). Investment proposals are submitted to and
finalized by the National Planning Office (NPO) from which they are submitted
to the National Priority Committee and the National Executive Council for
final approval. The Price Controller in the Ministry of Finance confirms or
sets freight tariffs and fares. However, in practice this control only
applies to shipping and aviation and the Highlands Highway. The 19 provincial
governments are responsible for transport matters in their own jurisdictions
and the Police Department is responsible for enforcing the road transport
regulations.
1.17      Planning for the transport sector is the joint responsiblity of DT
and DCAT and NPO which compiles annual investment programs for each sector.
Investments in the transport sector are part of the National Public Expendi-
ture Plan (NPEP). Apart from the NPEP, the Government does not have an



-5-
explicit transport development program. The DT and DCAT carry out reconnais-
sance studies of exsisting facilities, identify shortcomings and assess
improvements required to meet transport demand. In addition, DT and DCAT may
incorporate into their submissions to the NPO justifiable projects identified
by other agencies of the National Covernment and may evaluate projects put
forward by provincial governments that seek financial assistance.
E. Sector Issues and Bank Strategy
1.18      At the urging of the Bank and with the assistance of consultants
financed under the ongoing Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG) the
Government carried out a Transport Operations Policy Study (TOPS), to identify
the sector issues, and a Transport Investment Program Study (TIPS) to prepare
a sector investment strategy and assist in the preparation of a 5-year
National Investment Program. The TIPS was completed in late 1984. The TOPS
report was completed in mid-1985. From these two reports, the Government
prepared its own Transport Development Strategy which identified the following
major issues:
(a) Transport Policy. The lack of a clear transport policy has hampered
the development of the sector, and, as such, the Government has found itself
with a far more pervasive role than it feels should be required to ensure
adequate levels of service. In addition there is considerable disparity in
the treatment of the different modes, especially aviation and coastal shipping
with regulations varying greatly resulting in inefficiencies and higher costs
for consumers.
(b) Cost Recovery. In the past, subsidies have been allocated to
various modes either directly or indirectly and on unequal terms. Air trans-
port, with about 30% cost recovery has benefitted the most while road trans-
port revenues covered about 70% of total expenditures by the central govern-
ment of which roughly one half were allocated to maintenance. Port charges on
the other hand more than fully covered total costs of the Harbours Board.
(c) Investment Criteria. Low production levels, low population
densities and high construction costs will continue to make it difficult to
justify large, high standard infrastructure projects, based on traditional
economic criteria. However, the use of social criteria to allocate priorities
is not acceptable.
(d) Localization of Transport Posts. Many senior- and middle-management
posts in Government agencies are held by expatriates employed under short-term
conracts (2-3 years), resulting in a lack of staff continuity. The
Government, concerned about this issue, is attempting to develop a policy of
localizing staff. However, its approach to date has been uncoordinated,
yielding poor results.
1.19      The Government has recently reached a consensus on a strategy to
tackle the above four issues (para. 1.18) that involves deregulating the
transport industry, stimulating competition and reducing its own involvement
in the provision of transport services as proposed by the consultants under
TOPS. The implementation of the new strategy is expected to focus on the
following:



-6-
(a)  Investment Criteria.  Capital wi l be allocated to earn the ma'imum
rate of return and should be targeted at supporting regional development
programs and encouraging private investment. Additional efforts will be made
at properly managing and maintaining the infrastructure as well as ensuring
that appropriate safety standards are met.
(b) Government Involvement in Transport Services. The Government will
seek to reduce its direct involvement in providing transport services by
encouraging competition and private investment through deregulation of entry
and prices. The major impact of this policy direction will be on aviation and
coastal shipping.
(c) Cost Recovery. More emphasis will be placed on ensuring that users
and beneficiaries of transport services meet all the costs incurred on their
behalf including operating and maIntenance costs. Air transport will have the
largest gap to fill. Therefore, the Government intends that all subsidies be
made explicit, be quantified and be subject to periodic review to ensure that
their purpose is still valid.
1.20      The Bank has encouraged and supports this strategy.  The expansion
of the transport network will be supported where feasible, and emphasis will
be placed on the maximization of efficiency of the transport system through
policy changes favoring increased competition and private sector participation
in the provision of transport services. The issue of staff localization will
require long term efforts beginning with the basic education system. The Bank
is supporting the Government's effort through technical assistance and train-
ing both formal and on the job, to gradually increase local narticipation.
The major changes proposed in the new regulatory policy are expected to be
implemented over a period of several years in order to reduce the shock of an
abrupt change.
F. Previous Bank Financed Projects
1.21      The Bank Group has assisted the transport sector through four high-
way and two port projects totaling US$101.7 million. only the Road Improve-
ment Project (Lcan 2265-PNG 1983) is still under implementation, all others
having been completed. A project performance audit report dated June 16,
1977, for the First Highway Project (Credit 204/Loan 693-PNG) found that the
Bank Group's refusal to provide supplementary financing for the 90% project
cost overrun was unnecessarily harsh and that international competitive
bidding (ICB) *mder the conditions prevailing in PNG during 1970 may have
contributed to the cost escalation. The Second Highlands Road Improvement
Project (Cr. 677-PNG in 1977), completed in 1983, also suffered from an under-
estimation of costs by 75%, and the project scope was subsequently reduced.
1.22      The Third Highway Project (Credit 1030 Loan 1856-PNG in 1980) was
completed in June 1985 and provided for improvement and paving of 138 km of
the Highlands Highway between Kassam and Daulo Passes and for technical assi-
stance, for road maintenance, rural transport, detailed engineering, construc-
tion supervision and training; and for procurement of traffic counting equip-
ment. The project completion was delayed by about 12 months due to civil
unrest and increases in the amount of earthworks required because of unstable



- 7-
slopes. The ongoing Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG) provides for
rehabilitation and upgrading of 277 km of provincial roads; rehabilitation and
replacement of 25 bridges; improvement of 54 km of the Highlands an; Enga
Highways; and consultant services and technical assistance for: (i) feasibi-
lity studies, detailed engineerin8 and 'onstruction supervision; (ii) trans-
port policy studies and the preparation of a transport sector development plan
and associated investment programs; and (iii) strengthening of DTCA and DWS
including training. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
albeit with some delays. Construction of project provincial roads and bridges
is progressing on schedule. Out of four national road sections one is under
construction, one is under bidding procedure, one is under redesign and bids
are expected to be invited in July 1986, and one financed by the Kuwait Fund
has yet to start. All project studies have been satisfactorily completed.
1.23      While all of the projects to date have been completed successfully,
the experience gained raises several points of special interest:
(a)  land acquisitien remains a long and troublesome process and is
likely to continue affecting project implementation in the future;
(b)  the recruitment and training of PNG nationals for professional posts
is difficult due to the insufficient number of qualified candidates
for the engineering school. This is likely to be a long-term
problem; and
(c)  the need to have detailed design completed rather than preliminary
design before bidding is important to avoid problems at the
implementation stage.
II. ROADS
A. The Network
2.01      PNC has a road network of about 19,740 km of which about 1,280 km
are seaLed and the remaining 18,460 km are gravel/earth roads. About 4,870 km
of the network are national roads under responsibility of the National Govern-
ment. In fact the road system consists of a number of separate regional
subnetworks which are located primarily in and near main coastal towns and in
the Central Highlands. The absence of an integrated road network results from
the low population density, the mountainous terrain, difficult soil and harsh
climatic conditions which lead to high construction costs. Road conditions
vary from one region or provinces to another.
2.02      The roads, particularly provincial roads, are generally in poor
condition due to inadequate uiaintenance and overloaded vehicles. In addition,
weak or missing bridges and lack of access roads diminish the usefulness of
the existing network. Also, dany existing bridges are below standard load
capacity, made of temporary materials, without permanent abutments or piers
and often overflow during regular flooding. Some of the bridges are either in
imminent danger of collapse, have extremely low load restrictions (up to



1.0 ton) or require abnormally high maintenance expenditures. To correct this
situation, the Government in 1983 started a bridge rehabilitation and replace-
ment program with assistance provided under the ongoing Roads Improvement
Project (Loan 2265-PNC).   aese efforts will be expanded under the proposed
project (para. 3.07).
B. Traffic
2.03      There are an estimated 49,600 vehicles in PNG of which 35X are cars
and station wagons, 392 light commercial vehicles, 142 trucks, 62 buses, 3X
motorcycles and 32 other vehicles. New registrations have averaged about
11,0l0 p.a. during the past five years, but the proportion of commercial
vehicles has increased steadily during the past ten years, especially in the
Central Highlands where most economic activity is concentrated. However,
annual scrap rates for the vehicle fleet are high because of poor road condi-
tions, inadequate vehicle maintenance and overloading of both passenger and
freight vehicles.
2.04      Road traffic volumes are generally low, reflecting seasonal
variations and short distances. Travel demand peaks just after the annual
coffee, copra and cocoa sales. With the exception of the Highlands Highway,
which carries an average traffic volume of about 600 vehicles per day, most
long distance traffic is by air for passengers and by sea for freight.
Approximately 402 of the traffic on the Highlands Highway is comprised of
heavy trucks and buses.
C.  Road Transport Industry
2.05      Several large expatriate managed companies dominate the for-hire
road transport operations, especially in the areas served by the Highlands
Highway. In contrast to companies run by locals which lack entrepreneurship
and managerial staff and operate mainly as subcontractors, the expatriate-
managed companies provide an efficient, reliable and well-supported service.
Overregulation of routes, tariffs and licensing has resulted in unnecessarily
high freight tariff rates especially in the Highlands Highway area. Awareness
of this problem led the Covernment to introduce a new transport policy based
on consultants proposals under TOPS (para. 1.18). Technical assistance would
be provided under the project to assist the Government in implementing this
new policy.
2.06      Passengers and freight on roads other than the Highlands Highway are
mostly carried by Public Motor Vehicles. These are privately owned minibuses
and light commercial vehicles, often the property of community groups.
Operators and clients normally negotiate the rates and sometimes with
mediation by local government councils or by provincial authorities.
D. Administration, Staffing and Training
2.07      Responsibility for policy, planning, construction and maintenance of
the road network is divided between the National Government and the provincial
governments. The DT and DW administer the national roads and the provinces
and municipalities handle the provincial and local roads, respectively.



2.08      The DT, with its four divisions (land transport, policy and planning
and maritime services and management services), handles all policy and plan-
ning matters. The DW, with its two divisions (operations and technical), is
the Government's executive agency and handles the major externally financed
projects. Country wide, there are two regions (Southern and Northern) and the
19 provinces.  Each region has a Regional Work Manager Office (RWMO) respon-
sible for coordinating and monitoring execution of capital and maintenance
works financed by the National Government and providing technical assistance
to the provinces. Each province has a Provincial Work Manager Office (PWMO)
responsible for executing minor capital works and maintaining all National
Government fixed assets including the national road network, airports, water
supply and buildings.
2.09      Most senior- and middle-management posts in DW, DT and DCAT are held
by expatriates engaged on short-term contracts (2-3 years). Qualified PNG
nationals are in extremely short supply in most government agencies. About
75Z of DWs professional staff are expatriates and many positions remain vacant
in both field and headquarters. At present only 190 engineering and super-
visory positions are filled, compared to 253 approved positions. The number
of national students entering civil engineering is too low given that the
failure rate is high (86X). For example, only 11 civil engineering students
were expected to be graduated in 1985, just four of them will be available on
the open market, and most likely only two young graduates are expected to join
DW. It is acknowledged that it will take many years to train local staff for
all professional positions. The Government is aware of this situation and has
initiated reforms at the national and provincial levels in order to rationa-
lize the public sector and to-design an improved and vastly expanded training
program for middle and senior local officials. In 1984 a Program Management
Unit (P1U) was created to analyze management performance in key government
agencies and provinces and on behalf of the Budget Priorities Committee make
recommendations on how to strengthen management performance. The Bank is
supporting and participating in this activity through provision of advisory
staff being financed under an ongoing project. The PMU is making progress in
reviewing the Government's administrative structure, and its final recommenda-
tions are expected in the second half of 1986.
2.10      The Staff Development and Training Section (SDTS) of DW continues to
offer courses at two training centers (Boroko and Madang) to accelerate
staffing with qualified nationals. Training facilities are adequate but
training has been hampered by a shortage of national instructors and trainees.
Training efforts have centered on fellowship programs and on courses for
semiprofessionals, technicians, foremen and clerical staff. The proposed
project would make provision for teaching aides and would also include
overseas training.
E. Planning and Financing
2.11      The DT Policy and Planning Division is responsible for preparing and
evaluating projects in the transport sector, coordinating investments within
DT and the National Planning Office (NPO), preparing feasibility studies and
traffic surveys and preparing capital investment plans and annual programs.



- 10 -
2.12      The TIPS, carried out by consultants and a Ports Development Study,
financed by the ADS and completed also by consultants, reviewed transport
needs and identified the highest priority roads, aerodromes and ports to be
improved. These studies formed the basis for DT's Five-Year Development Plan
which is included in the draft of the First National Development Plan (1986-
90). In the road subsector, the plan aims to sustain and improve that portion
of the road network that carries a significant volume of traffic and to expand
the road network in those areas with good development potential. For the road
subsector, the program established amounts to about K128 million over 1986-90
period for which over 90Z of the external financing has been identified. The
sources of funding include: ADB-47%, IBRD-30%, EEC-1ll and Kuwait Fund-4%.
About 8% of the required funding remains to be identified. In the civil
aviation subsector, the plan includes improvement of important national
airports through replacement of existing airport equipment and through reseal-
ing and regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons. The airport program
totals about K13.5 million of which about K5.5 million is included in the
proposed project. No other sources of external financing have been identi-
fied. In addition, the Plan aims to strengthen sector institutions and
develop policies to enhance transport efficiency. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the annual consultation between the Government and the Bank on the
draft investment program be done in context of the annual consultation on the
total public expenditure program in PNG.
2.13      Financing for construction, improvement and maintenance of national
roads and airports is provided in the National Government's annual budget. In
addition, the provincial governments' fund provides for provincial roads
through their untied grants and other internal funds or through grants appro-
priated through the National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP). Some provincial
governments make bulk allocations to district councils or communities for
maintenance or minor improvements of local roads. Provincial governments also
have some revenue generating authority and may obtain additional funds for
roadworks through the levy of local taxes.
F. Engineering
2.14      The DW is responsible for detailed engineering of all civil works,
including road and airports. Most large projects are designed by consultants
most of which are subcidiaries of Australian and New Zealand firms, only small
projects are designed by DW and its PWMOs.  Recently, road and bridge design
standards were revised and updated to reflect various types of terrain and
traffic volumes. During negotiations it was agreed with the Government that
design standards would be continuously reviewed and the most economical stan-
dards used.
G. Construction
2.15      Since domestic construction capacity remains limited, most major
construction works on national roads have been carried out by foreign contrac-
tors, especially for externally financed projects. Some construction works on
national roads have also been carried out by force account (day labor) or by
its variant, Project Managed Force Account (PMFA), which involves the use of
subcontractors, labor and plant hired under a construction management team of



- 11 -
consultants engaged by DV. Sections of the Highlands Highway, provincial
roads and bridges were built through PMFA under the Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project (Credit 677-PVC) and the Road Improvement Project (Loan
2265-PNC).
2.16      Provincial governments often employ DW on an agency basis either to
execute or call contracts for the construction of small projects on provincial
and village roads. Roadworks on village roads are carried out largely by
manual labor but sometimes with equipment, usually supplied by DW, which also
provides technical assistance to the local government councils.
2.17      Construction costs in PNC are high and in mountainous terrain may
reach up to US$0.6 million per km of two-lane national road and US$120,000 per
km of provincial road. Despite high costs, civil engineering contracts in PNC
are not of a magnitude, either in scale or frequency, to support a comprehen-
sive domestic contracting industry. Local contracting firms can be generally
divided into three categories: (a) expatriate companies or subsidiaries of
overseas companies; (b) medium size domestically owned companies; and
(c) small domestically owned companies. In category (a), some six expatriate
companies can execute contract works in excess of K 5 million; in addition,
one domestically owned and managed company could qualify in this category. In
category (b) some six or seven domestic companies have now been involved in
contract works up to K 300,000. In category (c), 30 to 40 domestic companies
operate mainly on a plant hire basis but they can also occasionally perform
subcontract works. In additiont there are many owner-drivers in the country,
who usually operate a single truck or plant. At present, sufficient road
construction equipment is available in the country to cater to its likely
needs. The domestically owned contracting companies face many problems. Each
of the category (b) and (c) firms lacks the ability to manage its projects,
both in construction techniques and in administrative/financial skills. More-
over, they have difficulties in obtaining work on a continuous basis.
2.18      Since the Government wishes to promote the domestic road construc-
tion industry, the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PNC)
included a component providing technical assistance to domestic road construc-
tion contractors.  Under this component, a consultant drafted a contractor's
manual in 1978 and later concentrated on field training of six or seven domes-
tically owned and managed firms that had the basic equipment fleet and the
entrepreneurial spirit necessary for further development. However, the
relative shortage of suitable small road construction or maintenance contracts
hampered the success of these training efforts. Under the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-PNG), the Government undertook to investigate
further ways of promoting the domestic road construction industry and reported
to the Bank Group on any measures taken. Under the Road Improvement Project
(Loan 2265-PVG), DW was to supply work to domestic contractors by carefully
apportioning of small roadworks. Through these projects, the Government
realized all problems and difficulties in developing the domestic construction
industry and has now reaffir~.ed its commitment to revive and continue the
previous efforts and to take corrective measures to develop the domestic con-
struction industry. During appraisal of the proposed project, DV agreed on an
Action Program that would immediately assist the industry by: (a) providing
technical assistance in professional skills to medium-size domestic



- 12 -
contractors in order to enable them to bid competitively for projects in the
Dw program; (b) reviewing the DW program for 1986 and structuring some
projects to make them suitable for these contractors; and (c) encouraging
these contractors to form joint ventures with larger companies. It was agreed
that the technical assistance services needed for the implementation of the
above Action Program be financed under the ongoing Road Improvement Project
(Loan 2265-PNG). In addition, the proposed project would provide such activi-
ties as further technical assistance and training to the domestic contractors
(paras. 3.13) in order to develop the industry.
2.19      Major construction projects which are externally financed are
usually supervised by the foreign consultants who carried out the detailed
engineering. Smaller or locally financed contracts are supervised from DW
headquarters or by PWMOs, sometimes with assistance from consultants. The
quality of supervision is generally satisfactory.
H. Maintenance
2.20      Maintenance of national roads and bridges is the responsibility of
DV and is performed through the 19 PWMOs. The technical standards of
maintenance are satisfactory but the level of maintenance has been inadequate
and particularly routine maintenance is poor. The major reasons for
inadequate maintenance were: (a) the lack of a separate road maintenance
branch within DW and staff solely employed on road maintenance till very
recently; (b) the lack of planning, programming and monitoring of road main-
tenance operations; (c) the distribution of maintenance allocations among
PWMOs without consideration of road conditions, traffic volume and climatic
and geological conditions; (d) the diversion of maintenance funds to road
improvements; (e) the high cost of plant and vehicles handled by the Plant and
Transport Branch (PTB) of DV (para. 2.25); and (g) the lack of routine main-
tenance equipment. In the past, budgetary allocations provided by the
National Government for maintenance of the national road network were adequate
and the Government is expected to continue to provide sufficient funds during
project implementation and thereafter. During negotiation it was agreed that
annual consultation between the Government and the Bank on road maintenance
program be done in context of the annual consultation on the total public
expenditure program in PNG.
2.21      Road maintenance in PNG was reviewed in depth under the Road Main-
tenance Study financed under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-
PNG). The study was carried out by consultants, and was completed in June
1985. Under the study, consultants made recommendations for improvement of
the existing organization at all levels, road maintenance management and
financial procedures, and they identified road maintenance requirements in
terms of equipment, materials and manpower for various road maintenance
operations. The consultants also prepared guidelines for road maintenance
planning, programming, costing, and monitoring as well as for execution of all
major road maintenance operations. To improve road maintenance through
implementation of these guidelines, the consultants identified staffing
requirements and training needs. In accordance with consultants proposals,
about 460 supervisory and clerical staff would be trained at the two existing
training centers (para. 2.10). The program for 1986 was reviewed and



- 13 -
discussed with the Government and found satisfactory but the selection cri-
teria should be firmed up. During negotiations it was agreed that the
Government will (a) spell out criteria for selection of staff to be trained by
!)ecember 31, 1986; and (b) furnish to the Bank for comments by September 30 of
each year during project implementation a staff training program for the
following year.
2.22      In line with the consultants' proposals, the Road Maintenance Unit
(RMU) was created within DW. The RMU is headed by the Principle Road Main-
tenance Engineer who was appointed as of March 1, 1985. Other posts need to
be filled. The DW is making progress in this regard. At the regional level,
DW is expected to appoint regional road maintenance engineers and technicians
during 1986. Similarly, at the provincial level, DW plans to appoint road
maintenance engineers and technicians during 1987, after RMU finishes its
proposal on provincial reorganization.
2.23      The RMU, with the study team's help, updated the inventory of roads
and bridges and collected other relevant data such as traffic volumes, avail-
ability of materials, climatic conditions, etc., so for the first time the
l9A6 road maintenance budget levels will be based on real needs as opposed to
historical demand levels. Based on these updated road and bridge inventories,
DW prepared five-year resealing, regravelling and bridging programs. The
regravelling and bridging programs are available in the project file. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) has agreed to finance a resealing/sealing
program, and, in order to economize on maintenance expenditures by avoiding
frequent regravelling, DW decided to gradually seal heavily trafficked short
road sections near and within urban areas starting in 1986. Regravelling and
bridging 5-year programs include about 2,700 km of national gravel roads to be
regravelled and 86 bridges and 21 river crossings to be rehabilitated and
replaced. To improve routine maintenance, and in line with consultants
recommendations, DW is planning to establish three groups of routine mainte-
nance units for:  (a) general maintenance operations (cleaning culverts,
bridges and ditches, grass and bush control, etc.); (b) grading and reshaping
of gravel roads; and (c) patching potholes of bituminous roads. The proposed
project would assist the Government in implementing the regravelling and
bridging programs and would include procurement of road maintenance materials
and specific equipment needed for routine maintenance.
2.24      Maintenance of provincial and local roads is the responsibility of
the provincial governments. Certain provinces allocate a reasonable amount of
money for maintenance while others allocate very little and concentrate on
building new roads. Except for two provinces (Western Highlands and North
Solomons), maintenance of provincial and local roads is being carried out by
DW as an agent of the provincial governments. However the extent of mainte-
nance works and the provision of funds depend entirely on the provincial
governments.
2.25      The PTB is responsible for procurement, servicing, repairs and
maintenance of equipment used by government departments including the police,
health, hospitals and provincial governments. The PTB hires out plant and
vehicles to the _.aer departments, on the basis of individual hourly, daily or
monthly hire rates. Operators and fuel are usually provided by the user. The



- 14 -
hire rates appear to be substantially above hire rates in the private sector,
however. Therefore DW hires plant and vehicles from the private sector rather
than use PTB's. As a result the plant and vehicles allocated to road
maintenance and construction are currently underutilized. This problem is
being addressed in the Study of DW Heavy Plant and Equipment financzd by the
ADS. The objectives of the study are: (a) to determine minimum plant
requirements and appropriate hire rates; (b) identify possible courses of
action to improve existing plant procurement, disposal policies, maintenance
and procedures; and (c) identify possible courses of action to implement
practical management information systems including staffing and training. The
study will be completed by the end of 1986 and based on consultants recommen-
dations, the Government should prepare an action program to improve present
poor performance at PTB. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
Government will furnish to the Bank the action program for review and comments
by June 30, 1987. Although the-DW has a great many plant and vehicles, there
is a shortage of specific equipment particularly for routine road maintenance
such as pavement breakers, bitumen hand sprayers, premix spotmixers,
vibrators, and hand operated rollers, grass cutters, etc. which would be
financed through the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Backround and Rationale
3.01      The Bank Group has been actively involved in the transport sector
since 1969. Since then, three highway projects and the two port projects have
been completed, improving the transport sector. These efforts are continuing
under the ongoing Road Improvement Project (Ln 2265-PNG). In February 1984,
upon completion of the TIPS financed under this project, the Government pre-
pared its Transport Sector Plan in the context of the National Medium-Term
Development Plan (1986-90).  To implement the sector plan, the Government
approached several financing agencies including the World Bank for assistance
in financing the highest priority projects in the road and civil aviation
subsectors. The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
a new transport policy which evolved with Bank's assistance and which
emphasizes application of new investment criteria, greater role by the private
sector and greater cost recovery. In addition, Bank involvement in the
proposed project is designed to further institutional strengthening in the
various subsectors.
B. Project Objectives
3.02      The global objectives of the project are to:  (a) improve land
transport through the reconstruction, upgrading and mainteaance of national
roads, and to reduce vehicle operating costs; (b) enhance air transport
through equipment replacement, improvement of safety standards and resealing
and regravelling of airstrips, taxiways and aprons; (c) improve efficiency of
road maintenance through provision of road maintenance equipment and materi-
als; (d) strengthen the institution building and improvement of the domestic
construction industry through the provision of technical advisory services and
training of local staff.



- 15 -
C. Main Features
3.03      The project would be implemented over a period of five years and
would consist of:
(a)  reconstruction and upgrading of three national road sections
totalling about 80 km.;
(b) rehabilitation and replacement of about 50 bridges totaling about
1,100 linear meters;
(c) regravelling of about 500 km of national gravel roads and provision
of road maintenance equipment and materials;
(4) replacement of navigational, metereological and communication
equipment at 14 national airports and resealing or regravelling of
runways, taxiways and aprons at 16 airports;
(e) consultant services for economic and engineering studies and
construction supervision; and
(f) technical assistance to aid DW, DT, and DCAT in (i) implementing a
new transport policy; (ii) establishing a gravel pit inventory,
(iii) researching possible uses of coronous materials for road
maintenance; (iv) developing the domestic construction industry; and
(v) training of local staff and institution building.
D. Detailed Description and Status of Preparation
(a) Reconstruction and Upgrading of National Roads
3.04      Mai-Bavusi (13 km).  The proposal for this section of highway on New
Britain Island is to upgrade it to bitumen standard. The existing gravel road
has an adequate alignment over flat to rolling terrain and serves an area of
the country which has been developing rapidly over recent years. The main
economic activities are timber and oil palm production. Detailed engineering
is being carrietd out by DW and is expected to be completed by September 1986.
3.05      Togoba-Kaupena-Ialibu Turn Off (50 km).  This road forms the first
part of the Southern Highlands Highway which links Mt. Hagen, the center of
the Western Highlands Provinces, with Mendi, center of the Southern Highlands
Province. Most of the existing road from Togoba to Mendi, via Kaupena and the
Ialibu Turn Off, was constructed in the first half of the 1970s, reaching
Mendi in 1974. The Kaupena-Ialibu section (14.3 km) was constructed in 1973
as a part of the Kaupena - Assissi road financed under the-First Highway
Project (Loan 693/Credit 204-PNG). In general, the existing road has adequate
horizontal and vertical alignments, but inadequate drainage and the pavement
has deteriorated and became deformed to the extent that regular maintenance
cannot restore it. In November 1985, the preliminary engineering was prepared
by consultants. The consultants proposed improvements to the existing
drainage system and the provision of a base course and bituminous seal overlay
to the existing pavement. Road construction is scheduled to start in 1988,



- 16 -
and necessary details on pavement and drainage improvements will be prepared
by consultants in 1987.
3.06      Alotau-Gurney (17 km).  This section is part of the Magi Highway
between the warf at Alotau, the capital of the Milne Bay Province and Gurney,
the province's principal airport. The first 8 km of the existing road is
bitumen coated and the existing alignment is adequate. However, drainage is
poor and existing pavement is deformed and deteriorated to the extent that
regular maintenance cannot restore it. Daily traffic volumes recorded in
April 1985 ranged from 400 vpd near the town to below 100 vpd beyond the
airport. Main developments in palm oil, cocoa and timber production are now
underway and are expected to generate significant traffic increases, particu-
larly in heavy commercial vehicles during the next five years. Preliminary
engineering was completed by DW and field detailed survey, and materials
investigation and testing are being finalized. Detailed engineering will be
prepared in-house in 1987, one year ahead of the construction start.
(b) Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program.
3.07      The project would include about 50 highest priority bridges out of
the 109 bridges and wet crossings included in the five-year program
(para. 2.03), for a total of about 1,100 linear meters. In addition, river
training work would be included when and where required. The first year
bridges scheduled for construction in 1987 were identified by DW and evaluated
by DT and reviewed by the Bank during the appraisal. Detailed engineering for
these bridges is expected to be prepared by consultants and DW during 1986 and
will be financed under the ongoing project (Loan 2265-PNG).
(c) Road Maintenance Program.
3.08      Of 2,700 km of national roads included in the five-year regravelling
program, about 500 km of highest priority gravel roads would be regravelled
during the first three years (1987-1989). The project also includes procure-
ment of the most essential road maintenance equipment (Table 1) and materials
(Bailey bridges, culvert pipes, gabions, guard rail, etc.) mainly needed for
routine and emergency maintenance operations.
(d) Improvement of Airports
3.09      Replacement of Airport Equipment.  Most of the existing naviga-
tional, telecommunications and meteorological equipment was purchased and
installed for the most part 20 years ago and has reached the end of its econo-
mic and technical life. In addition, it is no longer produced and spare parts
are not available. Therefore the consultants under TIPS proposed, and the
Government agreed to a five-year equipment replacement program for 14 airpo-ts
starting in 1986 (Table 2). During negotiations it was agreed wtih the
Government that this project component would be financed by Australian
Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
3.10      Resealing/Regravelling of Runways, Taxiways and Aprons.  A detailed
inventory of the national airports carried out by DCAT ani DW indicates that
the surface of some airstrips, taxiways and aprons are substant-4ally worn to



-  17 -
the extent that routine maintenance cannot restore them. In addition,
drainage is poor at some airports and requires immediate attention. To
correct this situation DCAT and DW prepared a four-year resealing/regravelling
program (1986-1990) including drainage and fire station improvements (Table
3). The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing its
program and ensure safety of flight operations.
(e) Consultant Services.
3.11      The proposed project would provide a total of 686 man-months of
consultant services (Table 4). Consultant services for detailed engineering
of the roads and bridges would total 150 man-months; anothir 310 man-months of
services would be provided for construction supervision of roads, bridges and
airports. Also, the project would provide 226 man-months of consultant
services to prepare feasibility studies and detailed engineering needed for
preparation of future projects.
(f) Technical Assistance and Training.
3.12      As continuing shortages of qualified national staff impede the
Government's localization policy, assistance is needed in the transport sector
to strengthen DT, DW and DCAT by financing technical assistance totaling
308 man-months (Table 6). Technical assistance would be provided to DT total-
ing 112 man-months to assist in setting up a more effective administration in
implementing and monitoring the new transport policy. The tasks involved
would include: (a) assisting and advising the senior managers in the Depart-
ment of Transport; (b) extending the work programme of the Policy and Planning
Division of the Department of Transport to include policy evaluation and data
management; (c) strengthening the technical and administrative functions of
the Land Transport Division; (d) assisting in the establishment of a Shippers
Council; (e) re-establishing data management collection and analysis; and
(f) development of performance indicators to monitor the implementation of the
new policies. The project would also provide 92 man-months to DW for prepara-
tion of a gravel pit inventory and research on the possible uses of coronous
materials for road maintenance. In addition, 56 man-nonths would be provided
to DCAT to support its policy planning function and provide short-term
technical experts. Technical assistance would also provide on-the-job
training to local staff and would prepare them to eventually take over the
expatriate positions upon completion of their contracts (para. 2.21). In
addition, the project would provide for overseas training of nine local middle
management staff totaling 18 manyears and for procurement of teaching aids.
3.13      Following the action program to assist the construction industry
(para 2.19) the project would provide for: (a) continuation of the technical
assistance to medium size domestic contractors; (b) technical assistance and
training of small domestic contractors; and (c) technical assistance to DW to
improve their contracting procedures. Technical assistance services to
medium-size contractors would include project management and administration of
their projects, cost monitoring, and estimating and preparation of bids in
order to make these contractors more competitive in bidding for DW program
contracts. Technical assistance services to small contractors would include
training in principles of construction site management, cost estimating and



18 -
bid preparation in order to prepare them for undertaking their small con-
tracts. The technical assistance to DW would prepare .he commercial condi-
tions of contracting based on FIDIC General Condition, and suitable to PUG.
It has been agreed that a single consulting firm would provide these technical
assistance services using 2 civil engineers, 1 mechanical superintendent and
1 supervisor, for a total of 48 man-months. The terms of reference for all
above technical assistance services have been agreed with DW and are attached
in the project file.
E. Estimated Project Costs
3.14      The total project cost, including land acquisition, is estimated at
Kina or US$64.7 million (US$1 = K 1). This includes: (a) the estimated base
cost as of January 1986; (b) physical contingencies of 20X for the bridge
rehabilitation and replacement program, 15% for upgrading of national roads
and 10% for all the remaining project items; (c) price contingencies of 7.2%
for 1986, 6.8% for 1987, 6.8X for 1988, 7% for 1989, 7.12 for 1990 and 4%
thereafter for local and foreign exchange components. Overall physical and
price contingencies combined represent 29Z of the total project cost. The
foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$48.6 million, or about 752 of the
total project cost; the remaining US$16.1 rzillion represent local cost, of
which US$6.5 million, or about 10% of total project costs are local taxes and
duties. Detailed cost estimates are shown in Table 6 and are sunmmarized in
the Table 3.1 below.
3.15      The average construction cost per km of national roads (excluding
contingencies) is estimated at about US$166,000 including bridges. These cost
estimates are based on preliminary and detailed engineering and are considered
reasonable in comparison to recent bids for similar works in the country. The
cost estimates of bridge construction, regravelling of gravel roads, and
resealing and regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons are based on actual
costs of recent similar works in the country.
3.16      Consultant services for detailed engineering and construction
supervision of project roads and bridges and supervision of regravelling and
resealing works will require about 460 man-months estimated at about 13% of
total construction cost. The project also includes 226 man-months for feasi-
bility studies and detailed engineering for future projects. The cost esti-
mates of consultant services are based on similar work being performed in the
country and, as shown in Table 4, the costs are on the high side because most
consultant services will be carried out by foreign consulting firms which also
provide expatriate supporting staff ftechnicians, surveyors, etc.). In addi-
tion, the project includes 308 man-months of technical assistance to DW, DT
and DCAT.
3.17      The cost estimates for road maintenance and airport equipment and
road maintenance materials are based on suppliers recent quotations. The
quantities of road maintenance materials are based on the annual requirements
during the past five years.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(K million or US$ million)
Foreign
Local     Foreign   Total    Exchange
as 2 of
total
A. Civil Works
-  Improvement of 80 km of
national roads                          4.6        8.7       13.3   65
-  Bridge rehabilitation and
replacement program                     2.1        4.9        7.0   70
-  Regravelling of about 500 km
of national roads                       2.0        3.0        5.0   60
-  Resealing/regravelling of runways,
taxiways and aprons                    0.8         2.0        2.8   70
B. Equipment and Materials
-  Road maintenance and
laboratory equipment                     -         3.1        3.1   100
Road maintenance materials               -         2.2        2.2   100
-  Airport navigational, meteorological
and telecommunications equipment/a       -         3.1        3.1   100
C. Technical Assistance and Training
-  Engineering and economic studies
and construction supervision            1.0        4.5        5.5   83
-  Technical advisory staff to DW, DT
DCAT including training                 0.5        2.8        3.3   85
D. Right-of-way                            0.4         -         0.4   -
Base cost /b                           11.4       34.3       45.7   75
E. Contingencies /c
-  physical                                1.4        4.2        5.6   75
-  price                                   3.3       10.1       13.4   74
Total Project Cost                   16.1       48.6      64.7   75
Project cost excluding taxes /d        9.6        48.6       58.2   84
/a   To be financed by ADAB.
7i   January 1986 prices.
7    Details given in Table 13.
Td   Total taxes and duties estimated at US$6.5 million.



- 20 -
F. Financing
3.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$45.5 million would finance the pro-
ject's foreign exchange, including US$2.0 million for retroactive financing of
resealing, regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons and feasibility
studies (paras. 3.10 and 3.19). The loan would thus finance 70X of the total
estimated project cost or 78X of the total project costs excluding taxes and
duties. Procurement of airport equipment estimated at US$3.1 million would be
financed by ADAB and the Government would finance the remaining US$16.0 mil-
lion equivalent through budgetary allocations to DW, DT and DCAT.
3.19      Because of the safety considerations, the resealing program for
national aerodromes is due to start in 1986. The Government is also keen to
start with the preparation of feasibility studies by mid 1986 and terms of
reference and the short list of consultants have been agreed with the Bank.
In line with the Government's request, it was agreed during appraisal that
retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million equivalent be proposed for these
items.
C. Auditing
3.20      The UW's, DT's and DCAT's accounting procedures are broadly satis-
factory and subject to a continuous external review by the Covernment's Com-
mission on Audit (COA). During negotiations it was agreed that the Borrower
will furnish to the Bank, within six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of the audit report of the project expenditures.
H. Project Implementation
3.21      The project would be implemented by three Government agencies: DW,
DT and DCAT. DV would be responsible for detailed engineering of project
roads and bridges, improvement of national roads, rehabilitation and
replacement of bridges, road maintenance, resealing/regravelling of runways,
taxiways and aprons, and technical assistance to DW; DT would be responsible
for feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for future projects and
technical assistance to DT; and DCAT would be responsible for procuring and
installing the airport equipment and for technical assistance to DCAT. Since
the project would be implemented by three implementing agencies there is an
obvious need for coordination among these agencies. During appraisal it was
agreed that a project coordinator will be appointed from one of the three
agencies to ensure necessary cooperation, monitor the progress of implementa-
tion, procurement* project costs and expenditures and prepare progress reports
for regular submission to the implementing agencies and to the Bank. Durirg
negotiations the Government provi ed the Bank with evidence that the project
coordinator has been appointed.
3.22      Following the Government's Natonal Development plan, the project
would be implemented over a five-year period. The project implementation
would start in 1986, immediately after loan effectiveness, because detailed
engineering is not required for regravelling of national roads and resealing/
regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons, and detailed engineering for
upgrading of one project road (Mai-Bavusi) is about to be completed. Also,



- 21 -
procurement of road maintenance equipment and materials can start immediately.
Contractors would be responsible for maintaining their road construction works
for a 12-month period and for the remaining civil works-for a 6-month period
after completion, after which DW would assume this responsibility. During
appraisal the implementing agencies prepared a detailed action program and
summarized it in the project implementation schedule (Annex 1). In summary*
the action program calls for preparatory works including bidding for the first
year civil works and starting work on the national airports by the end of
1986. Procurement of the most urgent airport equipment and resealing/
regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons and preparation of feasibility
studies for future project would start in 1986.  Road construction would start
in early 1987 and would be completed by October 1990. Regravelling of
national roads would start in late 1986 and would be completed by the end of
1988, and road maintenance equipment and materials would be procured and
delivered by the end of 1988. The remaining civil works and equipment pro-
curement and delivery would be completed by mid-1990. Institutional
strengthening and training would start in late 1986 and will continue through-
out the project implementation. During negotiations assurance was obtained
that the Government would adhere to the agreed action program and implementa-
tion schedule.
3.23      Improvement of national roads would be carried out by international
contractors, and the remaining works would be carried out by local contractors
and PMFA. Consultants would supervise the larger civil works projects; the
PWMOs would supervise only the small projects. During negotiations a list of
roads, bridges and airports included in the first year work program was agreed
and assurance was obtained that the Government will: (a) submit to the Bank
for comments by September 30 of each year a list of roads, bridges and
airports to be included in the next year's work program; and (b) include in
the program only roads and bridges with an ERR of 121 or higher.
3.24      In order to assist the domestic construction industry the Government
agreed during appraisal that road maintenance works would be reserved to
selected domestic contractors. DW would thus select a few small domestic
contractors in a province or in neighboring provinces and invite them to bid
among themselves for road maintenance contracts valued at less than K 300,000;
only these selected contractors would be allowed to participate in the bidding
during 1987 and 1988. This temporary arrangement should provide the small
domestic contractors with sufficient work to facilitate their training under
technical assistance services. After the initial period these contractors
should be able to operate independently. This would not only develop the
construction industry but would in the long term also provide more opportuni-
ties for labor employment. During negotiations, assurance was obtained from
the Government that work totaling at least US$3.5 will be offered to the small
contractors selected for training during 1987 and 1988.
I. Procurement and Right-of-Way Acquisition
3.25      Civil Works.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used
to procure improvements to the three national roads estimated at US$16.0 mil-
lion equivalent, in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" May 1985. Procurement of remaining civil



22 ^
works through ICR would not be appropriate because the contracts involved will
be relatively small (up to US$300,000) and scattered all over the country and
will be phased over a period of four years. Therefore, these works, including
rehabilitation and replacement of bridges, regravelling of national roads and
resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons totaling US$19.5 mil-
lion will be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of local compe-
titive bidding under procedtures satisfactory to the Bank. The remaining
bridging and regravelling w.3rks estimated at US$4.3 million equivalent would
be carried out by PMFA.  All procurement documents for civil works over
US$0.5 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review which
will cover about 72Z of the proposed loan. Table 3.2 below summarizes the key
procurement information.
3.26      Equipment and Materials.  Road maintenance equipment and materials
and airport laboratory estimated at US$7.5 million equivalent would be pro-
cured on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Pro-
curement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." Contracts for equipment and
materials estimated to cost more than US$0.5 million equivalent each would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. Procurement of off-the-shelf small items
costing less than US$10,000 equivalent would be done by shopping in accordance
with the Baiik Guidelines. The total amount of such purchase should not exceed
US$400,000 equivalent.
3.27      Consultant Services and Technical Assistance.  Consultant services
for detailed engineering, construction supervision, studies and technical
assistance estimated at US$12.5 million equivalent would be obtained in accor-
dance with the relevant Bank Guidelines. The short list of consultants and
terms of reference for feasibility studies have been agreed with the Bank.
3.28      Right-oZ-Wa.  The Government acquires right-of-way through the
Department of Land and provincial governments by negotiations as far in
advance as possible. There have been cases in the previous projects where
delay in acquiring right-of-way has caused disruption of scheduling. However,
under the proposed project, acquisition of right-of-way would be minimal and
would be limited only to drainage improvements of the national roads and
replacement of existing bridges. Therefore this is not now considered as a
major problem and during appraisal and it was agreed that acquisition of
right-of-way would be completed during the detailed engineering stage. During
negotiations, assurance was obtained that the Government will take timely
action to make available right-of-way on each project road section and bridge
prior to bid invitation or about six months before contract award.



-23 -
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY /a
(US$ million)
Procurement Method            Total
Project elements                       ICB      LCB       Other    NIA cost
Civil Works
-  Improvement of national roads        16.0       2.8                       18.8
(10.2)    (1.8)                      (12.0)
-  Bridge rehabilitation and                       7.4      2.5               9.9
replacement program                         (4.7)    (1.6)              (6.3)
-  Regravelling of national roads                  5.3      1.8               7.1
(3.4)    (1.2)             (4.6)
-  Resealing/regravelling of                       4.0                        4.0
runways, taxiways and aprons                (2.6)                       (2.6)
Subtotal                        16.0     19.5       4.3              39.8
(10.i)   (r2-.5)    (2.8)            (25.5)
Equipment and Materials
Road maintenance and laboratory          4.2                0.2               4.4
equipment                            (4.2)              (0.2)             (4.4)
Road maintenance materials               3.1                                  3.1
(3.1)                                (3.1)
Subtotal                         7.3                0.2               7.5
(7.3)               0.)(7.5)
Services
Consultant services, technical                             12.5               12.5
assistance and training                                (12.5)            (12.5)
Right-of-way                                                          0.5     0.5
Total                           23.3     19.5      17.0      0.5    60.3
(17.5)   (12.5)   (15.5)             (45.5)
/a Excluding airport equipment to be financed by ADAB.
Notes:   1.  Amounts shown for each project component include contingencies.
2. Figures parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan.



- 24 -
J.  Disbursements
3.29      Disbursements would be made on the following bases:
(a) 64% of the total expenditures for civil works including:
(i) improvement of national roads; (Hi) rehabilitation and
replacement of bridges; regravelling of national roads; and
resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons;
(b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of all equipment and materials procured
directly from abroad and 65% of the total expenditures for imported
equipment and materials procured locally; and
(c) 1001 of total expenditures on consultant services technical
assistance and training.
3.30      Disbursements for expenditures on road construction carried out by
contract would be fully documented. Disbursements for civil works contracts
under US$100,000 equivalent, small equipment items procured by shopping and
works executed by force account will be made on the basis of withdrawal
applications supported by statements of expenditures on work performed and
duly certified by DW. Reimbursement applications for these works and for
small equipment items procured by shopping would be submitted when aggregate
amount reachs US$100,000 or equivalent or every three months which ever comes
first. DW will maintain and make available to the Bank's representatives all
relevant documentation in support of the statements of expenditures, when
required. Table 7 shows a schedule of estimated disbursements which follows
essentially the country profile but it takes into account the fact that the
project will start in 1986 and retroactive financing is involved. Payments
will be subject to internal audit by DW and by the Government Auditor-
General's Office.
K. Environmental Aspects
3.31      The project is not expected to cause any environmental or ecological
problems. No major changes in the alignment of project roads will be made and
therefore the requirements for additional land and disturbance to property
would be minimal. The improvement works include such features as bridge and
drainage improvements. Raising embankments would improve not only environmen-
tal conditions along the roads but also road safety.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficia-es
4.01      The project will have a wide ranging impact on the transport system
of Papua New Guinea with various components affecting all of the provinces
either in the road or air transport subsectors. The economic case for the
physical ccponents of the project rests on a reduction in vehicle operating
costs (VOCs), a decrease in repair and rehabilitation costs of the road net-



- 25 -
work, and a reduction in freight damage, travel time and other economic and
social costs associated with the existing condition and use of the road
network. The critical factor justifying the airport improvements is opera-
tions safety.
4.02      The reconstruction and upgrading of national roads will have a
direct impact on the areas in which they are located. The three roads
included in the project play a vital role in some of the most important areas
of the country which are emerging as growth oriented :enters.
4.03      The regravelling, bridge rehabilitation and replacement programs
cover all of PNG comprising the most important roads in the country, providing
access for evacuation of agricultural products, the supply of goods to remote
areas and better health and social services.
4.04      The resealing and regravelling of airport runways, taxiways and
aprons will benefit the areas served by each airport and ensure that vital
links to other parts of the country are maintained. Since air transport is
the most important mode of transport for passengers and is likely to remain so
for the foreseable future. it is very important to ensure that adequate
service levels and safety are maintained for flight operations.
4.05      The direct benefits of the program will accrue in the first instance
to the traders and transport operators in the form of reduced operating costs.
Although officially tariffs are controlled, in practice they are competitive.
In addition, the Government is now moving towards full deregulation of the
transport sector, which will ensure that reduced transport operating costs are
passed on to the producers and/or consumers, through greater competition.
Furthermore. to the extent that better road conditions will reduce importation
of vehicles and spare parts by lessening the wear and tear of existing
vehicles, the economy will benefit for there will be less demand for foreign
exchange. For certain areas, the improved and expanded network of all-weather
roads will stimulate agricultural production in the long run and will yield
benefits of better integration in the market economy. The beneficiaries of
airport improvements will ultimately be the transport users as competition
among the airlines is expected to have a beneficial impact on fares.
R. Economic Analysis
4.06      With the exception of the runways improvements, airport equipment
and technical assistance and training programs, all other major physical com-
ponents have been evaluated to assess their benefits. The components include
(a) the improvement of national roads; (b) the bridge replacement and rehabi-
litation program; and (c) the regravelling of national roads. Economic costs
are based on detailed engineering in the case of the Mai-Burusi Road and on
preliminary engineering for the Alotau-Gurney and the Togoba-Ialibu roads.
The benefits, depending on the specific subproject being analyzed, consist of
savings in VOCs and maintenance cost savings. Time savings are not included,
nor are reductions in freight damage and in vehicle accidents. The evaluation
of benefits is therefore conservative. The VOC savings are based on varying
terrain types and on the vehicle composition and traffic growth established by
a system of traffic counts carried out by UT.



- 26 -
4.07      Reconstruction and Upgrading of National Roads.  The road stztions
to be reconstructed and/or upgraded have wearing courses well past their ser-
vice life. The economic analysis of this investment is based on: (a) X 20-
year economic life of the investment; (b) annual maintenance cost savings
ranging from K600/km to Kl,900/km, depending on the level of deterioration of
each major section of each road subcomponent and the corresponding traffic
volumes; and (c) traffic volumes ranging from 110 to 600 vehicles per day in
1985 with a proportion of heavy vehicles varying between 26Z and 40Z and a
growth rate varying between 31 and 6Z throughout the period. Based on these
assumptions, the three components have economic rates of return ranging from
13X to 28X.
4.08      Regravelling Program.  Of the 2,700 km of national roads included in
the Government's five-year regravelling program, about 500 km of the most
heavily trafficked roads are to be regravelled over a three-year period. The
roads included in the program have traffic volumes ranging from 200 to
450 vehicles per day with a regravelling cycle of once every five years. The
program will have a direct impact on VOCs, and it is estimated that these will
increase by 51 annually on the roads on which no maintenance is done. For the
three years following these operations, regravelling would bring about a 151
reduction in VOCs. Based on these assumptions, the estimated ERR for
regravelling operations is expected to be 74X for the first year regravelling
program. During negotiations it was agreed that second and third year project
roads would be evaluated on the basis of the same methodology and be required
to yield a 121 minimum ERR.
4.09      Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program.  The program includes
the rehabilitation and/or replacement of about 50 bridges or river training
works over a four year period. Most of the bridges are more than 20 years old
and have reached or are about to reach the end of their economic life. In
addition, their design is such that weight restrictions have to be inposed,
thereby limiting the type of vehicles which can use them. The major impact of
the bridge program is expected to be on the mix of vehicles in the total
traffic using them and reductions in maintenance costs for the bridges them-
selves. With weight restrictions, the number of smaller commerical vehicles
would increase substantially and thus result in higher transport costs. The
first year program, includes four bridges to be replaced and five river
training schemes. For the river training schemes, the proposed works will
prevent the existing servicable bridges from imminent collapse as a result of
the meandering pattern of the river. These works are deemed to be justified
on the basis that the incremental cost of the proposed works is far less than
the replacement cost of the bridges. In addition, the benefits would include
substantial savings resulting in having to airlift supplies while temporary
crossings are built in the event of washouts. The four bridges to be replaced
have ERRs in the 40-43Z range and are thus amply justified.
4.10      Airport Improvement Program.   The project includes the replacement
of navigational, meterological and communications equipment at 14 aerodromes
and resealing or regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons at 16 air-
ports. The equipment is old and no longer produced and as such spare parts
are difficult to locate. In many cases the safety of operations will be
jeopardized unless the equipment is replaced in the near future. The reseal-



- 27 -
ing and/or regravelling of runways, tauiways and aprons is also linked to the
safety of operations. The runways are pitted or rutted and many have weight
restrictions which curtail the type of aircraft that can be used. without
prompt resealing or regravelling, flights will have to cease. Such a
condition theoretically would yield an infinite rate of return. In addition
since it is almost impossible to quantify the safety aspects of this programs
no specific ERR has been calculated.
4.11      Construction and Maintenance Costs.  Construction costs have been
calculated net-of-tases for the economic evaluation. The foreign exchange
component has not been shadow priced. The construction costs for the rehabi-
litation and upgrading program have been split equally over a two year period
while regravelling and bridge work costs have been allocated to specific
years. The maintenance costs were used as estimated by DW and consultants.
C. Overall Economic Evaluation
4.12      The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 34X for those
components included in the economic evaluation which amounts to 572 of project
costs. Benefits have not been quantified for the purchase of road maintenance
equipment, materials, laboratory equipment, consultant services and technical
assistance and training, although they are expected to improve operations in
the DT, DW and DCAT. The bridge replacement and rehabilitation program as
well as the road regraveling program yield rates of return which are not
especially sensitive to reductions in benefits or increases in costs. For the
reconstruction and upgrading of national roads, sensitivity tests carried out
indicate that a 15X increase in costs or 152 decrease in benefits still yield
acceptable results in all cases but for the Kaupena-Ialibu section. In this
particular case, it was agreed at negotiations that final acceptance of this
component will be subject to review by the Bank of bid prices and that the
rate of return should not be lower than 112.
D. Risks
4.13      Two major types of risk affect the project.  Che first is the possi-
bility of delays in implementation, which were also experienced under previous
projects because of difficulties over right-of-way acquisition, caused by
customary land ownership. The second risk is that the project policy and
institutional objectives would not be met because necessary expatriate staff
would not be recruited according to schedule or because the Government would
not assign sufficient numbers of national officers to work with foreign
experts. To reduce these risks, the Government agreed to take timely action
for acquisition of the land needed for civil works, to make available right-
of-way prior to bid invitation or about six months before contract award and
that a project coordinator will be appointed to ensure the timely appointments
of technical assistance staff and coun.erpart to be trained.



- 28 -
V. AGREEHETS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) Bank's review of annual investment program for roads and airports
(par&. 2.12);
(b) continuously review design standards and use the most economical
standards (pars. 2.14);
(c)  Bank's review of annuat program for road maintenance (para. 2.20);
(d) Selection criteria for staff to be trained to be furnished to the
Bank for coments by December 31, 1986 (para. 2.21);
(e) Staff training program to be furnished to the Bank for comments by
September 30, each year (para. 2.21);
(f) action program for improvement of PTB to be furnished to the Bank
for comnents by June 30, 1987 (para. 2.25);
(g) submission of audit reports on the project within six months of the
end of fiscal year (para. 3.20);
(h) action program and project implementation schedule (para. 3.22);
(i) list of first year roads to be regravelled and bridges to be
rehabilitated and replaced (paras. 3.23);
(j) list of roads to be regravelled, bridges to be rehabilitated and
runways, taxiways and aprons to be resealed/regravelled in later
years to be furnished to the Bank for comments by September 30 of
each year (para. 3.23);
(k) only roads and bridges with an ERR of 12% or higher to be included
in the program (para. 3.23);
(1) civil works amounting US$3.5 million to be offered to domestic
contractors selected for training during period 1987 and 1988
(para. 3.24);
(m)  timely acquisition of right-of-way for each road section and bridge
to be arranged prior to bid invitation (awarding construction
contracts) (para. 3.28);
(n) expenditures on road regravelling and bridge rehabilitation and
replacement would be made on after the site and scheduling of the
subsequent year's program has been reviewed by the Bank and agreed
upon with the Government (para.3.30); and



- 29 -
(o) final acceptance of the Keupena-Ialibu road section for upgrading to
be subject to receipt of bids and minimum 11X rate of return
(para. 4.12).
5.02      It is recomended that resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways
and aprons and feasibility studies be financed retroactively up to US$2.0
million (paras. 3.19).
5.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$45.5 million
equivalent (representing about 70X of the total project cost) for a period of
20 years, including a five-year grace period. The borrower would be the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea.



Table 1
- 30 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Road Maintenance Equipment
Item                                         Quantity    Unit cost    Total cost
(Y'000) -
Premix spot-mixer (1 M3)                         13         20.0            260
Mobile bitumen heater                            13         18.0            234
Hand-held bitumen sprayer                        13          6.0             78
Tractor-mounted front loader                     32          6.0            192
Pavement breaker                                 31          4.0            124
Hand emulsion sprayer                            31          5.0            155
Pedestrian vibrator pavement compactor           31          1.5             45
Two-drum surfacing roller                       31           5.0            155
Compressor and 4 jackhammers                    19          13.0            247
Generator and 4 floodlights (10 KVA)             19          5.5            105
Hand-operated vibrating drum compactor           19          4.0             76
Tractor-mounted grass cutting equipment          19          3.0             57
Tractor-drawn sprayer                            19          3.0             57
Concrete mixer                                   19          2.5             48
Vibrator pokers                                  19          1.5             29
Turfor winch and 15-ton Jack                   167           0.5             84
Hand-held motorized grass slashers             167           1.2            200
Water pump                                      214          1.0            214
Chain saw                                      167           1.2            200
Pavement breaker                               167           1.3            217
Sledge vibrator compactor                      167           1.0            167
Walkie-talkie set                               47           1.0             47
Miscellaneous                                                                70
Total                                                                3,061
Source: DW/mission.
January 1986



- 31 -                       Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINIA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
AMrpoi.. Equipment Replacement Progtram and Cost Es timates /a
(K'000)
Cost estimates
Airport        Item                             1986   1987   1988   1989  Total
Madang         NDB                               30       -      -       -      30
DME                               -        -     -     140    140
HF transmitters AFTH             40        -     -       -      40
ARO                              2n        -     -       -      20
Multi-CH recorders                -       20     -       -      20
Kieta          NDB                                -       30     -       -     30
Remote VHF                        -       40     -       -      40
Runway end indicator lights       -       60     -       -      60
Manus          DME                                -       -      -     140    140
Gurney         DME                                -       -      -     140    140
Remote ViHF                       -        -    60       -      60
Wewak          nME                                -       -      -     140    140
HDB                              30        -     -       -      30
HF transmitters AFTH             35        -     -       -      is
ARQ                              40        -     -       -      40
Multi-CR recorders               20        -     -       -      20
Mount Hagen    DME                                -       -      -     140    140
CVOR                              -        -   320       -    320
Remote VHF                       60        -     -       -      60
Kerema        DUF                                 -       -      -     140    140
Goroka         Control tower                      -       -      -     150    150
RDB                               -       30     -       -      30
DME                               -      140     -       -    140
Kirivina       TIME                               -       -      -     140    140
CVOR                              -      140     -       -    140
Nadzab         DME                                -     140      -       -    140
Port Moresby   HF transmitters AFTH               -      7B      -       -     78
ARO                               -        -    80       -      80
Multi-CH recorders               40        -     -       -      40
Lae            DME                                -     140      -       -    140
Rabaul         CVOR                               -     140      -       -    140
TME                               -      140     -       -    140
HF transmitters AFTH              -       20     -       -      20
ARQ                               -       20     -       -      20
Daru           Remote VHF                         -       -    60        -     60
Total                      280   1.173   520   1,1aO  3,103
/a To be financed by ADAB.
Source: DCAT/Missio*.
January 1986



Table 3
-32-                                 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVENENT PROJECT
Program for Resealing/Regravelling of Airstries, Taxiways and Aprons
Cost estimates
Type of work/airport          Quanity    1986    1987    1988    1989    Total
(in)                     (K#OOO)
Resealing of Runwayst,
Taxiways and Aprons
Daru                         57,000       -     207        -       -       207
Chimbu                       38,000       -       -        -     100       100
Karieng                      53,000     300       -        -       -        300
Kerema                       20,000     150       -        -       -        150
Lae                         119,000       -      295       -       -       295
Mendi                        56,000       -       -        -     220        220
Rabaul                       60,000       -      132       -       -        132
Wewok                        61,000       -       -      170       -        170
Kiunga                       56,000     300       -        -       -        300
Subtotal                520,000      750     634      170     320     1,874
Regravelling of Runways,
Taxiways and Aprons
Bialla                       21,000       -      50        -       -         50
Buka                         25,000       -     127        -       -        127
Kiriwina                     54,000     100       -        -       -        100
Subtotal                 100,000     100     170        -       -       277
Improvement of Fire Sta-
tions, Control Towers
and Drainages
Madang                            -       -       20      12       -         32
Kieta                             -       -       -      314       -       314
Goroka                            -       -       -       35     182       217
Mount Hagen                       -       -       80       -       -         80
Subtotal                       -             100      361     182       643
Total                    620,000     850     911      531     502     2,794
Source:  DW/Mission.
January 1986



Table 4
- 33 --
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Consultant Services
Estimated        Cost
Item                                                       man-months      (KOOO)
Detailed Engineering
Togoba-Kaupena-Ialibu Turn-Off road                          75             550
Bridge rehabilitation/replacement program                    75             550
Subtotal                                                 150           1,100
Construction Supervision
Mai-Buvusi road                                              23             140
Togoba-Kaupena-Ialibu Turn-Off road                         110             650
Alotau-Gurney road                                           30             182
Regravelling of national roads                               42             250
Bridge rehabilitation and replacement program                82             490
Resealing of runways, taxiways and regravelling
of national airports                                       23             140
Subtotal                                                 310           1,852
Preparation of Future Project
Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering
for national roads in Port Noresby including
Burns Peak road and, if feasible, engineering              90           1,000
Feasibility studies, preliminary engineering and
detailed engineering for other project items              136           1,500
Subtotal                                                 226           2,500
Total                                                    686           5,452
Source: DW/Mission.
January 1986



34 -                          Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Technical Assistance and Training
Estimated       Cost
Item                                                      man-months      (K'OO0)
Technical Assistance to the Department of Transport
Stage one advisory staUt to assist in setting up
more effective administration for transport
operations and new policy implementations:
Four advisors                                           14             154
Stage two advisory staff to assist the implement-
ing and monitoring of the new transport opera-
tion policy and to train local staff:
One administrative and one data management
advisor                                               18             208
Three land transpcrt advisors                           48             528
Three marine advisors                                   32             352
Subtotal                                           112           1,242
Technical Assistance to the Department of Works
Preparation or gravel vit inventory (one engIneer,
one geophysicist, one driller)                            62             560
Coronous aggregate research (one engineer, one
technician)                                               30             270
Program to promote domestic construction indus-
try:
Stage one (two civil engineers)                          -              /a
Stage two (two civil engineers, one mechani-
cal engineer, one project supervisor)                 48             528
Subtotal                                           140           1_t358
Technical Assistance to the Department of Civil
Aviation and Tourism
One aviation economist and one policy planner               48             440
Data compilation advisor                                     6              66
Two aviation technical experts                               2              20
Subtotal                                                 56             526
Training and Assistance to the Existing Training
Centers                                                                      200
Total                                                   308           3,326
/a  Ten man-months, estimated at K 0.14 million, will be financed under Loan
2265-PNG during 1986.
Source: DT, DV, DCAT/Mission.
January 1986



- 35 -                              Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Xatimates
(K million w US$  5illion)
Estimated cost           Foreign com-
Project item                                       Local  Taxes  Foreign  Total   ponent (2)
Improvement of National Roads
Mai-Buvusi (13 ki)                                 0.4    0.3      1.3      2.0        65
Alotau-Curney (17 kml)                             0.6    0.3      1.7      2.6        65
Togoba-Kaupena (36 km)                             1.4    0.9      4.4     6.7         65
Kaupena-Ialibu Turn-Off (14 km)                   0.4    0.3       1.3     2.0         65
Subtotal                                       2.8    1.8      8.7    13.3          65
Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program    1.2    0.9          4.9      7.0         70
Road Maintenance Program
Regravelling of 500 km of national roads           1.2    0.8      3.0     5.0         60
Road maintenance equipment                         -       -       3.0     3.0        in0
Laboratory equipment                                -      -       0.1     0.1        to0
Road maintenance materials                          -      -       2.2      2.2       100
Subtotal                                       1.2    0.8      8.3    10.3          80
Improvement of National Airports
Procurement of equipment                           -       -       3.1     3.1        100
Resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiway.
and aprons                                      0.4    0.4      2.0      2.8         70
Subtotal                                       0.4    0.4      5.1      5.9         Rs
Consultant Services
Detailed engineering                              0.1    0.1       n.9      1.1        R5
Construction supervision                          0.1    0.3       1.5     1.9         sO
Other studies for future projects                 0.2    0.2       2.1     2.5         Y5
Subtotal                                       0.4    0.6      4.5      5.5         83
Technical Assistance and Training
For Department of Transport (112 man-months)   0.1    0.1          1.0     1.2         R5
For Department of Works (140 man-months)          0.1    0.1       1.2     1.4         85
For Department of Civil Aviation and Tourism
(56- man-months)                               0.1      -      0.4      n.s         R5
Training                                           -       -       0.2     0.2         90
Subtotal                                       0.1    0.2      2.8      3.3         85
Right-of-Way                                         0.4     -        -      0.4          -
Project Base Cost /a                           6.7    4.7    34.3    45.7           75
Contingencies
Physical /b                                       o.R    n.6      4.2      5.6         75
Price /c                                          2.0    1.3    10.1    13.4           75
Subtotal                                       2.R    1.9    14.3    19.n           7S
Total Project Cost                             9.6    6.5    48.6    64.7           75
/a  In constant January 1986 prices.
7-b Twenty percent for 'Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program," 152 for ToRoba-
Raupena and Kaupena-Ialibu roads, 102 for all remaining items.
/c  Price contingencies:  1986 - 7.2X; 1987 - 6.8%, 19R8 - 6.RX, 1989 - 7.0%, 1990 - 7.1X.
SourCes:  DW, DT, DCAT/Mission.
January 1986



Table 7
-36 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative dis-                 Country
bursements at                disbursement
the end of quarter               profile
Fiscal year and quarter                      (US$ million)       X          (X?
1987
Sept. 30, 1986
Dec. 31, 1986
March 31, 1987              2.0                 2.0/a           4
June 30, 1987               0.7                 2.7             6           6
1988
Sept. 30, 1987              1.2                 3.9             9
Dec. 31, 1987               1.7                 5.6            12
March 31, 1988              2.3                 7.9            17
June 30, 1988               2.6                10.5            23          23
1989
Sept. 30, 1988              2.8                13.3            29
Dec. 31, 1988               3.0                16.3            36
March 31, 1989              3.6                19.9            43
June 30, 1989               4.0                23.9            52          45
1990
Sept. 30, 1989              3.7               27.6             60
Dec. 31, 1989               3.3                30.9            68
March 31, 1990              2.9                33.8            74
June 30, 1990               2.5                36.3            80          65
1991
Sept. 30, 1990              2.4               38.7             85
Dec. 31, 1990               2.2                40.9            89
March 31, 1991              1.4                42.3            93
June 30, 1991               1.0                43.3            95          81
1992
Sept. 30, 1991              0.8               44.1             97
Dec. 31, 1991               0.6                44.7            98
March 31, 1992              0.5                45.2            99
June 30, 1992/b             0.3               45.5/b          100          92
/a Including $2.0 million of retroactive financing.
/b Closing date - June 30, 1992.
Source: DW, DT, DCAT/Nission.



- 37 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Action Program for Project Implementation
Government agency/Action                                      Target date
Start       Completion
A.  DEPARTMENT OF WORKS
Road Construction
Mai-Bavusi:
Finalize detailed engineering and tender
documents                                                  Sept. 1986
Prequalify contractors and call bids,
evaluate bids and contract award              Nov. 1986   Dec. 1987
Prepare short list of consultants, invite
proposals, and appoint consultants for
construction supervision                      June 1987   Dec. 1987
Road construction                                Feb. 1988   Dec. 1988
Alotau-Gurney:-
Prepare short list of consultants, invite
proposals, evaluate proposals and
appoint consultants for preparation of
detailed engineering, bidding documents
and construction supervision                  July 1986   Feb. 1987
Prepare detailed engineering and bidding
documents                                     March 1987  Dec. 1987
Prequalify contractors, call bids,
evaluate the bids and contract award          Jan. 1988   Dec. 1988
Road construction                               Feb. 1989   Dec. 1989
Togoba-lalibu:
Prepare short list of consultants, invite
proposals, evalute proposals and appoint
consultants for detailed engineering,
bidding documents and construction
supervision                                   June 1986   Aug. 1986
Prepare detail engineering and bidding
documents                                     Sept. 1986  May 1987
Prequalify contractors, call bids,
evaluate the bids and contract award          May 1987    April 1988
Road construction                               May 1988    Dec. 1990



-38-                            ANNEX I
Page 2
Government agency/Action                                      Target date
Start       Completion
Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
Prepare short list of consultants, invite
proposals, evaluate proposals and appoint
consultants for detailed engineering,
bidding documents and construction
supervision                                      June 1986   Dec. 1990
Prepare detailed engineering and bidding
documents                                        Jan. 1987   June 1990
Prequalify contractors, call bids,
evaluate bids and contract award                 Jan. 1987   Dec. 1990
Construction and improvement works                 June 1987   Dec. 1991
Road Maintenance
Prepare specifications and bidding documents
for regravelling of gravel roads                 June 1986   Dec. 1986
Prequalify contractors, call bids and
contract award on annual bases                   Dec. 1986   Dec. 1988
Regravelling works                                 Jan. 1987   Dec. 1989
Prepare specifications and bidding
documents for procurement of road
maintenance and laboratory equipment
and materials                                    Aug. 1986   Dec. 1986
Call bids, evaluate bids and contract award        Jan. 1987   June 1987
Delivery of road maintenance equipment
and materials                                    Sept. 1987  Dec. 1988
Improvement of National Airports
Civil Works:
Prepare detailed engineering and bidding
documents for remedial works                   Sept. 1986  Dec. 1986
Call bids, evaluate the bids and
contract award                                 Jan. 1987   May 1987
Construction works                               June 1987   Dec. 1987
Periodic Maintenance:
Prepare specifications and bidding
documents for resealing/regravelling of
airstrips, taxiways and aprons                 June 1986   August 1986
Call bids, evaluate the bids and contract
award on annual bases                          Aug. 1986   Sept. 1990
Execution of resealing/regarvelling works
on annual bases                                Sept. 1986  Sept. 1990



39 - 
Government agency/Action                                      Target date
Start       Completion
Consultant Services and Training
Finalize TOR and appoint consultants for
preparation of a comprehensive gravel
pit inventory                                   June 1987   Dec. 1987
Finalize TOR and appoint consultants to
carry out program of coronous agregate
research                                        June 1987   Dec. 1987
Preparation of gravel pit inventory and
completion of coronous agregate research        June 1987   Dec. 1988
Finalize TOR and appoint consultants to
provide technical assistance to the
domestic contractors                            Jan. 1987   June 1987
Technical assistance works                         Jan. 1987   Dec. 1988
Prepare detailed overseas training program
for DW and appoint candidates                   Jan 1987    June 1987
Overseas training on annual bases                 Aug. 1988   July 1990
Prepare detailed requirements for technical
assistance to develop and improve civil
engineering training capabilities of
the Staff Development Training Section
of DW and execute training program              Jan. 1987   Dec. 1988
B. DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL AVIATION AND TOURISM
Technical Assistance and Training
Prepare TOR, short list of consultants and
appoint consultants to provide technical
assistance                                      June 1986   Dec. 1986
Technical assistance works                         Jan. 1987   Dec. 1988
Prepare overseas traing program and appoint
candidates                                      Sept. 1986  Dec. 1986
Overseas training                                  March 1987  June 1990



- 40                             -- 1
Page4
Governmont agency/Action                                      Target date
Start       Completion
C. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Prepare TOR, short list of consultants, invite
proposals, evaluate proposals and appoint
consultant to prepare feasibility studies
for future project                                March 1986  July 1986
Preparation of feasibility studies                   Aug. 1986   Aug. 1987
Prepare short list of consultants, invite
proposals, evalute proposals and appoint
consultants to provide technical assistance       Sept. 1986  Dec. 1986
Technical assistance                                 Jan. 1987   June 1989
Prepare overseas training program and
appoint candidates                                 Sept. 1986  Dec. 1986
Overseas training                                    Jan. 1987   Dec. 1988



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ImplementatIon Schedule
49W          4979    49                   69          990 .9                     41992
412314 4 2                131234   21314 *121314 4121314   34
EARLY ACTVMEfS
1. oarci Uftesntaollaon 07111S8 6
2 LOW Effecttyth09)14#wIO) 
A. DEPARTMENT OF WORW.
Lmprovement of Nadtnd Qods Ro
SC                 -        -    T T      ll  .i  ..
Toba-4upn-                                                                                         G I  I  II'  I  I  I   I I
Am          4 Brdge b Rt                                     IIIIt    a        IiI-
D.k* m abOkMh   oW                                SC               llll  
fj4987       6aL   4                                                                 |  |    GP
I  ;9P8             IO II  I  II LB P  'C
|    gIGV. In o natIo al rqo                                 IIDads               1     11   
198O7                                                               - |            Bj                GP,
I  49B8                        1         I  I  I  I  I  I                  I~~~U  BDI BP  1O 
4989                                       1I
49890iym
M.V Technial Asswnce                         I                           in1                          I  
| D EPARTMToFaOvn AVIATiON                    I          DI    IP         OIII A                        1     1     D
I   ProCuremeItofAroomllert E 4Beup                        * BP I   I                  OI OA II
I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 PreparatS ndDe  EI           Io oC UIdn I    ouet IS - IesbW Stud  II       IIIeI
IP- SBidn Peod                                         -Guarantee Perbod
C- C        antijt   Period and Consruton Supansro    SC - Selechion ot Consul?ontr
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                  ~O E- Detailed Enginering                             STC -Sedleton ot Training Condild3tes
RW-Deeof    Pe8dd                                  TA -Technical Assistonce
TP -aTraining PeFiod
sOuice DLO, OT, O C  N    49SS                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bcnk-30541



ANNEX 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project-Related Documents and Date Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1 Transport Investment Program Study, 1484 by BCSOM
A-2 Transport Operation Policy Study, 1985, by T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners
A-3  Medium Term Development Program (1986-90) by the Government.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to tie Project
B-1 Feasibility Study and Preliminary Engineering of the Togoba-Kaupena and
Kaupena-Talibu Roads, 1985, by Beca International Consulting Ltd.
B-2 Road Maintenance Study, 1985, by Crown Agents
B-3 Bridge Rehabilitation Program, 1985, by DW
B-4  Road Regravelling Program, 1985, by DW
B-5 Rational Airoport Improvement Program, 1985, by DCA
B-6 Road Design Manual
C. Other Documents
C-1 Staff Training Program, 1985, by DW
C-2 Courses and Syllabus, 1984, by Works Training Center
C-3 Staffing and Organization of DW and DCA, 1985, by DV and DCA
C-4 Staffing and Organization of DT, 1985, by DT
C-5 Technical Assistance to DW, DT, DTCA, Draft Terms of Reference and
Overseer Training, 1985, by DT, DW and DCA
C-6 Technical Assistance to Domestic Construction Industry, 1985, by
L.L. Ekert, Consulting Engineer
C-7  Action Plan for Project Implementation, 1985, by DV, DT and DCA
C-8 Statistic Data, 1985
C-9 Other Project Supporting Documents, 1985, by DV, DT and DCA
C-l0 Materials Laboratory Investigation, May 1984, by DW



144
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST                                        TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT
SE P/K AEAsr  sEPIf/
3-   Astope
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                    . 
L ~~~~~~~~t i _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~M  A IV 6
I  MA        A   N    G
- - _  _  v   *   >  'RC   S   Madong                    I
,0KiuflgN h 
SOUTHEPENSi    _ 
IHl/GH AN/DS            _ ~W HIGH.A/
.6-                              7~~~- 
--r ~~~~~X.XJASTERN)                                   to Le
<                       ,'71~~~~/G/-/AAtDS/                M ORO8f }
N NI    mytq    tB4loIo
kori                   >\*u                 
WESTERN                        
\ > ~~~~~~~~Kerem o.
HI~~~~~~~~~ 
IAAS/                             ma?Bere0n :pondetta
OOTU~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
Doru   |                               !  <            K    e-~~~~~Keem
--
./~~~ N..- CL/G IZF                                                       A   ww
PA,,
0"                                    iPORT MORESBY                                             A
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                     0
CENITRAL
()  HIRITANO HIGHWAY              ®  ENGA HiGHWAY
M AAGI HIGHWAY                    ®  HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY
0    40   80  120  160   Kupcono
( NORTHERN IORO) HIGHWAY          ®  RAMU HIGHWAY        KI.5METRS 
®  NATIONAL HIGHWAY               9  COASTAL HIGHWAY         MILES
®  SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY    6  NEW BRITAIN HIGHWAY          °  20  40  60  80  100
147'



(BRO  195
r PROJECT                          tAVONAI
+4KoZvieriq
l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISlANDS
tliHIR GROUP
NEW IREt ND                
TANGA ISLANDS
S                  IV Nf W    I/R E I A IN                             Nomotao,o
,__1. ......... \ ) FENI ISLANDS
- .   . , RoBaul                  ! ,BOUGAINVILLE
ES r N E W  BR/TA-/                                  \ N                i                        I
Talosec                                                 J     B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eukao
M osk,ns       |/        J                                                ua
Klmbe_- >_                                                                           Kieta0
t'^? e <     -'6
NEW BRITAIN
PROPOSED  PROJECT
E  A  S Tr                       Highways Sections
/VNF W    8kR / rAI/                     Airports
PREVIOUS PROJECTS
Road Construction and Improvement*
FIRST PROJECT LOAN 693 CREDIT 204 PNG
*  SECOND PROJECT CREDIT 677 PNG
THIRD PROJECT LOAN 1856 CREDIT 1030 PNG
Road Improvement Project Loan 1265 PNG
.........                                  Projects by Other Agencies
NORrHERN                                                            Future Major Roads (National)
-         National Roads
Kirivina0                      Maior Provincial Roads
M ILNE BA Y                               Rivers
! L      BYMountainous Areas f 2,000 - 3,000 Meters)
>Oo BIy                                                   -  -      Province Boundories                         9'-
OBYt-  -  Internationol Boundaries
-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
,}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o i11 '& ^0 .                                         
A     tou, Alwftu       .o 
_<jb'  vgl d~~~~~~~~~~~O thef Jff SW     hW VW         O                     ES,
:*   --t5                        p*vt 0I re M hr* Ue 
Gurney                       A*fbol UFoce COJ
Of f*V wm"o a C
150-                                             ___ __ __ __a_a_ _e_ _ _ __of_ _ _ _ __A
FErBUARY 1986



