Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIUL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4352-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO Us$45.5 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 16, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
Average 1985                December 1985
US$1.00 = K  1.00           US$1.00 = K   1.00
K 1.00 = US$1.00            K 1.00 = US$ 1.00
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB  -  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
BCL   -  Bougainville Copper, Ltd.
DCAT  -  Department of Civil Aviation and Tourism
DT    -  Department of Transport
DW    -  Department of Works
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
NDS   -  National Development Strategy
NPO   -  National Planning Office
PNG   -  Papua New Guinea
PMU   -  Program Management Unit
PTB   -  Plant and Transport Branch
PWMO  -  Provincial Works Manager Office
RMU   -  Road Maintenance Unit
RWMO  -  Regional Works Manager Office
TIPS  -  Transport Investment Program Study
TOPS  -  Transport Operation Policy Study
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:          US$45.5 million
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The objectives of the project are to (a) improve land trans-
port through reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of
national roads; (b) enhance improvement of air transport
through equipment replacement, improved safety standards and
periodic maintenance; (c) improve efficiency of road mainten-
ance through provision of road maintenance equipment and
materials; and (d) strengthen institution building and
improve the domestic construction industry through provision
of technical advisory services and training of local staff.
The project includes: (a) reconstruction and upgrading of
about 80 km of national roads; (b) rehabilitation and
replacement of about 50 bridges totaling about 1,100 linear
meters; (c) regravelling of about 500 km of national gravel
roads; (d) provision of road maintenance equipment and
materials; (e) replacement of navigational, meteorological
and communication equipment at 14 national airports, reseal-
ing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons at
16 airports, rehabilitation and improvement of drainage works
and fire stations at four airports; (f) technical assistance
to the Department of Works (DW), Department of Transport (DT)
and Department of Civil Aviation and Tourism (DCAT) to imple-
ment the proposed project and prepare economic and engineer-
ing studies for future projects and to the domestic construc-
tion industry; and (g) on-the-job, local and overseas
training of DW, DT and DCAT staff.
The project will reduce vehicle operating costs, improve
safety at airports and strengthen DW, DT and DCAT. The main
project risks are possible delays in implementing the civil
works component because of problems with acquisition of
right-of-way and delays in meeting policy and institutional
objectives because of slow recruitment of necessary
expatriate staff. To reduce these risks, the Government has
agreed to make available the right-of-way prior to the bid
invitation. The project coordinator was appointed prior to
negotiations to ensure the timely appointments of technical
assistance staff and counterparts to be trained.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                          Local   Forei      Total
------US$ miL ion----
A. Civil Works
Construction and upgrading of about
80 km of national roads                       4.6       8.7       13.3
Rehabilitation and replacement
of about 50 bridges                            2.1      4.9        7.0
Regravelling of about 500 km of
national roads                                 2.0      3.0        5.0
Resealing/regravelling of run-
ways, taxiways and aprons                      0.8      2.0        2.8
B. Equipment and Materials
Road maintenance equipment                        -       3.1        3.1
Road maintenance materials                        -       2.2        2.2
Airport navigation, meteorological
and communication equipment /a                  -       3.1        3.1
C.  Technical Assistance and Training                1.5       7.3       8.8
D.  Right-of-Way                                     0.4        -        0.4
Project Base Cost /b                       11.4      34.3       45.7
E. Continencies
Physical contingencies                      1.4       4.2        5.6
Price contingencies                         3.3      10.1       13.4
Total Proect Cost                        16.1      48.6      64.7
Tot which taxes and duties)              T ".)               T76)
Financing Plan:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
-- --W*SI$ million)_----
IBRD                                                     45.5       45.5
ADAB                                              -       3.1        3.1
Government                                      16.1       -        16.1
Total                                     16.1      48.6       64.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY           1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
- ------ ( million) …---------
Annual                                    2.7   7.8  13.4  12.4   7.0   2.2
Cumulative                                2.7  10.5  23.9  36.3  43.3  45.5
Rate of Return:  34Z for quantifiable benefits
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 6107-PNG dated June 3, 1986
Map: IBRD 19553
/a fO be financed by ADAB.
7b As of January 1986.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomuendation on a proposed loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PUG) for the equivalent of
US$45.5 million, to help finance a Transport Improvement Project. The loan
will have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate.
PART I -- THE ECONOMY 1'
2.        The most recent economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Country
Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 5967-PNG), was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1986. This section draws upon the findings of that
report. Details of recent economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure and Performance of the Economy
3.        Papua New Cuinea is a land of numerous widely scattered islands,
rugged and sometimes impenetrable mountains, and rich valleys and coastal
plains. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral resources,
and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential. The capital
city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an enclave with no
road links to other parts of the country and is the largest urban settlement
in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita GNP in 1984 was
estimated at US$760. Despite this relatively high figure, Papua New Guinea
remains an exceedingly poor country where the majority of the multitribal
society lives at a level of, or scarcely above, subsistence. The figures for
monetary incomes are biased upwards by the inclusion of the incomes of
expatriates and thus give a misleading indication of the income level of the
nationals. The population in 1984 is officially estimated at 3.3 million,
spread among 19 provinces (with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000),
each with its own assembly and separate administrative apparatus.
4.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the enclave sector,
particularly copper mining and associated investments, and by the public
sector. In the late 1970s copper, mined by Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL),
accounted for about 15% of GDP; by 1982 this had fallen to 7.8% as prices
declined sharply and as the more productive veins were being exhausted.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from that in the President's
Report for Yonki Hydroelectric Project to be considered by the Board of
Executive Directors on June 19, 1986.



However, new investments in 1982, together with some improvements in copper
and gold prices, stabilized BCL's contribution to GDP in 1983. With declining
ore grades and prices, average performance was considerably lower in 1984-85
(about 5%). Construction of the new Ok Tedi mine generated about 12% of CDP
in 1983 (largely through capital investments representing roughly 45% of PNG's
total investments), thus more than compensating for the decline in BCL. Since
gold production came onstream in June 1984, Ok Tedi's contribution to value-
added in the mining sector has grown to a point where, together with new
copper production, it should reach about 12.5% of GDP in 1987. Nonmining
industry accounts for about 9% of GDP (low for a country of PNG'3 per capita
income), while government services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the
upper ranks, account for about one quarter of the total. Strikingly, the
primary sector, which employs about 85% of the labor force, contributes only
about 35% of GDP, a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.
5.        PNG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, real per capita growth was negative at -0.2% p.a. despite
the strong growth in copper exports. The latter half of the decade was even
worse in per capita income terms (-0.5Z p.a.), despite some good years,
particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the 1970s were
roughly neutral. Between 1980-82, real GDP stagnated, implying a real decline
in per capita income of about 2.4%. The situation stabilized in 1982 as
domestic adjustment policies became effective and improved significantly in
the second half of 1983 as export prices recovered. As a result, GDP growth
in 1983 reached 1%, lower than the 2.3Z population growth but still an
improvement over the earlier years. In these years the deterioration in the
terms of trade did bite as the Government cut back services and capital
investments and restricted the growth in the money supply to protect the
3Llance of payments and the value of the kina. With the unfavorable terms of
trade effect, gross domestic income has fallen 20% since '979. On the other
hand, the upturn in the economy gathered momentum in 1984. Real growth
reached 2.2% and is estimated to have reached 6% in 1985, largely because of
the start-up of the Ok Tedi mine. GDP growth is expected to be around 2% in
1986.
6.        PNG's growth performance in recent years has been particularly
vulnerable to swings in ;iternational commodity prices. After 1980 the price
of copper dropped to its lowest level in 30 years, leading to a fall of
K 42 million in budgetary resources derived from BCL between 1981 and 1982 and
a further decline of K 19 million in 1983. Although revenue contributions of
BCL recovered somewhat in 1984, they were still substantially below their 1982
level. The prices of agricultural export commodities have fallen by half
since the late 1970s, although the situation improved in 1983 and 1984. Lower
export receipts depressed economic activity and reduced imports through
1982. In 1983 and 1984, however, average export receipts jumped by over 20%,
while average imports rose by 7X. After taking account of the budget support
grant of about US$255 million a year from Australia, the current account
deficit in 1983 was US$367 million, or about 16% of GDP. The US$330 million
external current account deficit in 1984, roughly equal to 13% of GDP, was an
improvement over 1983. The current account deficit is estimated to have
declined slightly in 1985 to about US$300 million (12.6% of GDP). With a high
level of official and private capital flows, the deficits were covered without



undue strain on reserves but led to a substantial increase in the counLry's
debt service burden.
7.        In order to reduce the impact of export price fluctuations on the
economy and on the producers of export crops, the Government has taken a
number of measures. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to
smooth the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabiliza-
tion funds for coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscilla-
tions in prices received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural
products have had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they
have contributed to the stability of the economy. For the most part they have
shielded producers from income declines and, with the exception of the copra
fund, their total resources are still relatively healthy as a result of
substantial levies accumulated in the late 1970s, when export prices were at
historical highs.
8.        Between 1972 and 1976, following the establishment of the Minimum
Wage Board, real minimum wages had more than doubled, giving PNG the highest
wage costs of the developing countries in the region. The urban minimum wage
is currently equal to nearly US$50 per week. Since independence from
Australia in 1975, two three-year wage agreements limited the rise of both
public and private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, subject
to an annual maximum of 11.75%, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real
wages that occurred during the 1972-76 period. The wage situation was
accompanied by a "hard kina" policy causing the kina to appreciate vis-a-vis
PNG's major trading partners, which had the effect of dampening wage demands
and keeping down prices of imports (40Z of GDP by value). This tended to
offset somewhat imported inflation, so that the increase in domestic price
levels has averaged about 7.5Z between 1977 and end-1982 as compared with the
international inflation index of 8.7%.
9.        Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government sought to impose a three-year freeze on urban
wages starting in 1983. The Minimum Wage Board rejected this stringent
approach proposed by the Government, deciding in favor of full indexation of
the first five percentage point change in the CPI, but with no further
indexation. This resulted in an approximate 2.8% and 2.5% erosion in real
wages in 1983 and 1984, respectively. The Government also took direct action
to improve the management of the balance of payments through the exchange rate
policy. There was a devaluation of 5.5% in March 1983, and the kina, which
appreciated in real terms by 12% during 1976-82, was allowed to depreciate
thereafter (16% real effective depreciation between 1982-84).
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened revenue position
by raising taxes in 1982 and 1983, lowering government expenditure by 10% in
the latter year, and laying off some 2,000 employees, about 4% of the total
public service. Preliminary estimates indicate that the central government
deficit in 1984 was about K 25 million (1.1% of GDP), the lowest deficit in
years. As was the case in 1983, little of this was financed by borrowing from
the Central Bank. Borrowings from foreign commercial banks are estimated at
about US$20 million in 1984, as compared with US$60 million in 1983. The 1985
revised budget estimates show a deficit of K 77 million. However, according



to a recently reached understanding between the Governments of Papua New
Guinea and Australia, the Australian grant to PNG for 1986-1990 will be
reduced by 31 p.a. in real terms. This is likely to require further
curtailment of government expenditure in order to contain the budgetary
deficits within manageable limits over the medium term.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.       Since the country's independence in 1975, a concerted effort was
made to define a set of economic and social priorities according to which
government resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more
weight had been given to developing a decision-making process for the
budgeting of government resources than to the preparation and implementation
of a comprehensive development plan. While a National Development Strategy
(NDS) was defined and strategic objectives identified as the basis for
resource allocation, these had not represented a basis for a growth-oriented
development strategy as such.
12.       The NDS placed a high priority on improving the quality of life for
the rural population, focusing on rural development in the less developed
areas of the country. While this focus remains, it is now to be set within
the context of a growth-oriented strategy. This objective recognizes not only
the agricultural potential of the country, but also the fact that for quite a
few generations the agricultural sector will be the main source of employment.
13.       For several years, PNG has had a four-year plan known as the
National Public Expenditure Plan. This plan focuses on capital expenditures
for the first year of the (rolling) plan, concentrating on the recurrent costs
of capital projects and the ability of the budget to support them. (This
feature is rare in developing country planning and is expected to be retained
under the new planning system, which is still being worked out.) Currently
the Government is in the process of revising its planning procedures,
partially in response to Bank recommendations, in order to take a somewhat
more comprehensive long-term view and to en ompass a broader review of both
capital and recurrent budget requirements.-
14.       The Government's current approach to carrying out its intentions is
to develop a Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP). This will: (a) review the
current economic situation and forecast how it could be expected to develop
over the next five years (1987-91) based on an appropriate financing strategy;
(b) involve the preparation of medium-term public investment program and its
national allocation among varioLi sectors and agencies; and (c) contain a set
of policies and strategies that will make it possible to carry out the public
investment program.
2/   Ref. "Public Sector Management in Papua New Guinea:  An Administrative
Overview," June 27, 1983 -- Report go. 4396-PNG.



-5-
Development Issues
15.       The major factors that will affect the Government's ability to pro-
mote economic development are the decentralization of government activities,
the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial resources,
and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation and invest-
ment in the agricultural sector.
16.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the National Government's ability to carry through its set
priorities, while inadequate staffing limits the capabilities of the provinces
to develop their own plans. Decentralization in PNG was a necessary response
to local pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory
and financial control in some areas and will share power with the national
Government in others. They are financed through national government grants
and refunds of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own
taxation measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend
according to their own priorities, are by far the most important source of
finance; but, whereas in the 1984 budget they comprised over 70% of the total
receipts of the provinces, they amounted to less than 25Z of total national
government revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial
governments is the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most
urgent priority of the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting,
planning, and project identification and preparation.
11.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals, especially consid-
ering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first graduates as
recently as 1972. However, the country still relies heavily on expatriates
for many necessary services. This situation has created a relatively high-
cost government. The establishment of provincial governments is adding to the
pressures on existing human and financial resources, and the policy of
localizing positions held by expatriates adds to the dpmand for trained Papua
New Guineans.
18.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance are
reflected in the steady growth of the share of domestic revenue in total
budgetary receipts. Domesti i revenue accounted for only about 36% of
government receipts in FY68,_/ 60Z of the total in FY76 (immediately after
independence), and 70% in 1985. Over the past 7 years the Bougainville copper
mine has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total
and reaching a peak of 27Z in FY76, but falling to about 3% in 1984. While
mineral revenue is likely to have been modestly restored in 1985, revenue from
these sources may not regain its former share of overall revenues.
3/   PNG's fiscal year was July 1-June 30 until January 1, 1978 when it was
changed to coincide with the calendar year.



-6-
19.       While economic management has been largely sound, the country's
growth performance has been disappointing. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, the sector's output remains low, and prospects for the coming
decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster growth. The major
constraints have been inadequate extension services for smallholders, lack of
smallholder credit, customary land tenure practices and shortage of managerial
expertise.
External Debt
20.       During the period 1986-1988, PNG is likely to require an average net
capital inflow of about US$330 million p.a. The minerals sector is expected
to finance considerably more than half of the inflow through direct foreign
investment and borrowing: Ok Tedi-related borrowings were US$210 million in
1984. With respect to official borrowings, the public debt service ratio,
estimated at 13% in 1984, is expected to grow slowly and by 1990 would be at
around 16%. The overall debt service ratio is projected to increase from
about 30% in 1986 to 42Z in 1988, but decline thereafter to 32% in 1990.
Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1984 amounted to
US$1,209 million, of which US$279 million (23%) was owed to the Bank Group.
Debt service payments to the Bank Group are only about 7% of public debt
service payments. Bank Group loans as a share of total external debt -
outstanding and disbursed are projected to rise from 5.2% in 1986 to. 9.8% in
1990, and Bank Group debt service as a percentage of total debt service is
projected to rise from 4% in 1986 to 7.8% in 1990.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 4/
21.       As of March 31, 1986, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 16 loans and 13 development credits totaling US$364.4 million.
The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved
in 1968; more recently a Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Project (US$27.6 mil-
lion) was approved on July 23, 1985, and a Third Agricultural Credit Project
(US$18.8 million) on September 19, 1985. A Yonki Hydroelectric (Power III)
Project (US$28.5 million) is scheduled for Board presentation on June 19,
1986. In general, project implementation has been satisfactory. The first
rural development project in the Southern Highlands experienced some difficul-
ties with recruitment of essential expatriate staff as the rapid turnover of
expatriates and the transitional problems of recruiting and training their
replacements led to delays. Physical implementation is now approximately on
schedule. As of March 31, 1986, 11 credits and 8 loans were fully disbursed,
4/   This section is substantially unchanged from that in the President's
Report for Yonki Hydroelectric Project to be considered by the Board of
Executive Directors on June 19, 1986.



-7-
and the loans and credits to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA
amounted to US$336.3 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits.
22.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture, with
strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy. The
Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives: (a) support
for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) development of oppor-
tunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based on the substantial agri-
cultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion of human resource
development. A land evaluation and demarcation project, a second nucleus
estate project, and a second primary education project are under preparation.
23.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple preindependence
projects and the fact that they were mi7aged by an experienced expatriate
civil service. The disbursement rate - for FY85 was 28.3Z, compared to an
average of 30.4% for FY81-85. Disbursement rates for selected comparators for
FY81-85 were as follows: Colombia, 27.0%; Philippines, 22.2%; Morocco, 16.2%;
and Benin, 26.2%. It does not seem possible to determine a trend since low
disbursement years are followed by a high disbursement year, then another low
disbursement year. PNG's disbursement figures reflect periodic disbursements
of substantial amounts against individual large projects rather than steady
disbursements for all projects.
PART III -- THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
24.       Most transport takes place in the relatively few richer areas,
converging on the main ports of Lae and Port Moresby on the mainland, and on
the plantation and mineral-rich islands. In other areas transport flows are
so low that they can hardly justify the provision of even minimum standard
infrastructure; when provided, the infrastructure remains underutilized for a
long time and proves to be costly. However, this is unavoidable if the
scattered populations are not to be cut off.
25.       Each transport mode is best suited for certain services but they
generally complement each other. Transport volumes remain low, excluding
copper and timber exports, which move through specialized ports. Coastal
shipping carries some 350,000 tons of freight and 26,000 passengers
annually. Annual air travel involves about 1.2 million passengers but only
22 tons of freight. There are no data on traffic volumes and distances by
small boats and trucks, but they would not be as important as other traffic
5/   The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbursed balance.



- 8 -
flows. Other modes of transport lost freight business to road transport as
new roads were opened, while passengers continued to prefer air travel.
During the 1980s fuel import volumes have remained relatively stable and
reflect a stable traffic volume, except for some increase enabled by better
roads or more efficient vehicles and vehicle use.
Sector issues and Strategy
26.       With the assistance of consultants financed under the ongoing Road
Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG), the Government carried out a Transport
Operations Policy Study (TOPS), to identify the sector issues, and a Transport
Investment Study (TIPS) to prepare a sector investment strategy to assist in
the preparation of a Five-year National Investment Program. The TIPS was
completed in late 1984. The TOPS report was completed in mid-1985. From
these two reports, the Government prepared its own Transport Development
Strategy which identified the following major issues:
(a) Transport Policy. The lack of a clear transport policy has hampered
the development of the sector, and, as such, the Government has found itself
with a far more pervasive role than it feels should be required to ensure
adequate levels of service. In addition, there is considerable disparity in
the treatment of the different modes, with regulations varying greatly,
resulting in inefficiencies and higher consumer costs.
(b) Cost Recovery. In the past, subsidies have been allocated to
various modes either directly or indirectly, and on unequal terms. Air
transport, with about 30% cost recovery, has benefitted the most, while road
transport revenues covered about 70% of total expenditures by the Central
Government, of which roughly one half were for maintenance. Port charges, on
the other hand, more than fully cover total costs of the Harbors Board.
(c) Investment Criteria. Low production levels, low population
densities and high construction costs will continue to make it difficult to
justify large, high-standard infrastructure projects in PNG, based on
traditional economic criteria.
(d) Localization of Transport Posts. Many senior- and middle-management
posts in government agencies are held by expatriates employed under short-term
contracts (two to three years), resulting in a lack of staff continuity. The
Government, concerned about this issue, is attempting to develop a policy of
localizing staff. However, to date its approach has been uncoordinated,
yielding poor results.
27.       The Government has recently reached a consensus on a strategy to
address the above four issues that involves deregulating the transport
industry, stimulating competition and reducing its own involvement in the
provision of transport services, as proposed by the consultants under TOPS.
The implementation of the new strategy is expected to focus on the following:
(a) Investment Criteria. Capital will be allocated to earn the maximum
rate of return and should be targeted at supporting regional development
programs and encouraging private investment. Additional efforts will be made



-9-
at properly managing and maintaining the infrastructure, as well as ensuring
that appropriate safety standards are met.
(b) Government Involvement in Transport Services. The Government will
seek to reduce its direct involvement in providing transport services by
encouraging competition and private investment through deregulation of entry
and prices. The major impact of this policy direction will be on aviation and
coastal shipping.
(c) Cost Recovery. More emphasis will be placed on ensuring that users
and beneficiaries of transport services meet all the costs incurred on their
behalf, including operating and maintenance costs. Air transport will have
the largest gap to fill. Therefore, the Government intends that all subsidies
be made explicit, be quantified and be subject to periodic review to ensure
that their purpose is still valid.
28.       The Bank has encouraged and supports this strategy.  The expansion
of the transporL network will be supported whc:.-_ feasible, and emphasis will
be placed on the maximization of the efficiency of the transport system
through policy changes favoring increased competition and private sector
participation in the provision of transport services. Although the issue of
staff localization will require long-term efforts beginning with the basic
education system, the Bank is supporting the Government's effort through
technical assistance and training, both formal and on-the-job, to increase
local participation gradually. The major changes proposed in the new
regulatory policy are expected to be implemented over a period of several
years in order to reduce the shock of an abrupt change.
Government Investment Program on Transport Infrastructure
29.       The National Development Plan (1986-90) aims to sustain and improve
that portion of the road network that carries a significant volume of traffic
and to expand the road network in areas with good development potential. For
the civil aviation subsector the plan includes improvement of important
national airports. For the road subsector, the established program amounts to
about K128 million over the 1986-90 period, for which over 90% of the external
financing has been identified. The sources of funding include: ADB, 47%;
IBRD, 30%; EEC, 11%; and Kuwait Fund, 4%. About 8Z of the required funding
remains to be identified. In the civil aviation subsector, the plan includes
improvement of important national airports through replacement of equipment
and resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons. The airport
program totals about K 13.5 million, of which about K 5.5 million is included
in the proposed project. In addition, the Plan aims to strengthen sector
institutions and develop policies to enhance transport efficiency. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that the annual consultation
between the Government and the Bank on the draft investment plan for roads and
airports for the subsequent year will be done in the context of the annual
consultation on the total public expenditure program for PNG.



- 10 -
Air Transport Subsector
30.       Air transport infrastructure comprises some 450 aerodromes:  160 are
small private airstrips; 20 at main towns have runways longer than 1,400 m,
are generally 30 m wide and can handle small jets; 3 are customs airports;
and 3, at Port Moresby, Wewak and Kieta, are international airports although
only the Jackson airport at Port Moresby can handle international long- and
medium-haul aircraft. The airport equipment is rudimentary and in many cases
is more than 20 years old. For safety reasons, this equipment urgently needs
to be replaced.
31.       The comercial aircraft fleet consists of about 200 aircraft, mostly
small, suited to the small airfields and low traffic flows. In 1983 they
carried some 800,000 passengers in domestic flights: 600,000 in scheduled
flights on main routes and 200,000 by charter. Four airlines offer scheduled
services, and 20 carriers operate in the charter market. Air Niugini, the
national airline, has 60Z of the market. While tonnage carried has decreased
steadily to about half its 1975 levels, especially where alternative roads
were improved, passenger traffic has increased slightly. Air Niugini has
scheduled services to the 20 main airports but overall densities are low.
32.       Despite Air Niugini's strong presence on high density trunk routes
and on larger aircraft, and the requirement that other airlines be licensed
for scheduled routes, the system is competitive. Fares are regulated on
scheduled routes, but despite high load factors on some routes even private
airlines are not always abie to cover their costs due to the low tariffs
resulting from regulation. Air Niugini experiences heavy losses, partly
because it uses larger aircraft which are expensive to operate. Considering
the flying conditions, high labor cost, seasonal variations in demand and low
traffic flows, air fares are relatively low. International Air Niugini
flights carry fewer than 15,000 passengers per year. rhese flights became
profitable when Air Niugini acquired a wide-bodied aircraft to operate them.
33.       The TIPS identified a number of aerodromes where equipment was
critically deficient and posed a major safety risk as well as those aerodromes
where runways, taxiways and aprons required urgent resealing and/or regravel-
ling to maintain flight operations.
Highway Subsector
Road Network
34.       PNG has a road network of about 19,740 km of which about 1,280 km
are sealed and the remaining 18,460 km are gravel/earth roads. About 4,870 km
of the network are national roads under the responsibility of the National
Government. In fact the road system consists of a number of separate regional
subnetworks which are located primarily in and near main coastal towns and in
the Central Highlands. The absence of an integrated road network results from
the low population density, the mountainous terrain, difficult soil and harsh
climatic conditions which lead to high construction costs.



- 11 -
35.       Road conditions vary from one region or province to another, but
many, particularly provincial roads, are generally in poor condition due to
inadequate maintenance and overloaded vehicles. In addition, weak or missing
bridges and lack of access roads diminish the usefulness of the existing
network. Many existing bridges are below standard load capacity, made of
temporary materials, without permanent abutments or piers, and often overflow
during regular flooding. Some of the bridges are either in iminent danger of
collapse, have extremely low load restrictions (up to 1.0 ton) or require
abnormally high maintenance expenditures. To correct this situation, the
Government in 1983 started a bridge rehabilitation and replacement program
with assistance provided under the ongoing Roads Improvement Project
(Loan 2265). These efforts will be expndad under the proposed project.
36.       There are an estimated 49,600 vehicles in PNG, of which 35% are cars
and station wagons; 39%, light commercial vehicles; 14%, trucks; 6Z, buses;
3%, motorcycles; and 3%, tractors. Road traffic volumes are generally low,
seasonal and short distance. Travel demand peaks just after the annual
coffee, copra and cocoa sales. With the exception of the Highlands Highway,
which carries an average traffic volume of about 600 vehicles per day, most
long distance traffic is by air for passengers and by sea for freight.
Approximately 40% of the traffic on the Highlands Highway is comprised of
heavy trucks and buses.
Planning and Administration
37.       Responsibility for policy, planning, construction and maintenance of
the road network is divided between the National Government and the provincial
governments. The departments responsible at the national level for transport
organization, policy and infrastructure are the Department of Transport (DT),
the Department of Works (DW) and the Department of Civil Aviation and Tourism
(DCAT). Planning for the transport sector is the joint responsibility of the
DT, DCAT, and the National Planning Office (NPO), which compiles annual
investment programs for each sector, which become part of the National Public
Expenditure Plan (NPEP). The DT and DCAT carry out reconnaissance studies of
existing facilities, identify shortcomings and assess improvements required to
meet transport demand. In addition, DT and DCAT may incorporate into their
submissions to the NPO justifiable projects identified by other agencies of
the National Government and may evaluate projects put forward by provincial
governments that seek financial assistance.
38.       The DT and DW administer the national roads and the provinces and
municipalities handle the provincial and local roads, respectively. The DT
handles all policy and planning matters through its Policy and Planning
Division. The DW is the Government's executive agency and handles the major
externally financed projects. The country is divided into two regions,
Southern and Northern. Each region has a Regional Work Manager Office (RWMO)
responsible for coordinating and monitoring execution of capital and
maintenance works financed by the National Government and for providing
technical assistance to the provinces. Each of the 19 provinces has a
Provincial Work Manager Office (PWMO) responsible for executing minor capital
works and maintaining all national government fixed assets, including the
national road network, airports, water supply and buildings.



- 12 -
Staffing and Training
39.       Most senior and middle management posts in DW, DT and DCAT are held
by expatriates engaged on short-term contracts (two to three years).
Qualified PNC nationals are in extremely short supply in most government
agencies. About 75% of DWs professional staff are expatriates; many positions
remain vacant both in the field and at headquarters. At present, only 190
engineering and supervisory positions are filled compared to 253 approved
positions. The Government is aware that it will take many years to train
local staff for all professional positions and has initiated reforms at the
national and provincial levels in order to rationalize the public sector. In
1984 a Program Management Unit (PMU) was created to analyze management
performance in key government agencies and provinces, and to make recommenda-
tions on how to rationalize and strengthen management performance. The Bank
is supporting and participating in this activity through provision of advisory
staff. The PMU's recommendations are expected in the second half of 1986.
40.       The Staff Development and Training Section of DW offers courses at
two training centers (Boroko and Madang) to accelerate staffing with qualified
nationals. Training facilities are adequate but training has been hampered by
a shortage of national instructors, trainees and, to a lesser extent, teaching
aids. Training efforts have centered on fellowship programs and on courses
for semiprofessionals, technicians, foremen and clerical staff.
Design and Construction
41.       The DW is responsible for detailed engineering of all civil works,
including roads and airports. Most large projects are designed by consultant
firms, most of which are subsidiaries of Australian and New Zealand firms;
only small projects are designed by DW and its PMWOs.  Recently, road and
bridge design standards were revised and updated to reflect various types of
terrain and traffic volumes. During negotiations it was agreed with the
Government that design standards would be continuously reviewed and the most
economical standards used.
42.       Since domestic construction capacity remains limited, most major
construction works on national roads, especially for externally financed
projects, have been carried out by foreign contractors. Some construction
works on national roads have also been carried out by force account (day
labor) or by its variant, Project Managed Force Account, which involves the
use of subcontractors, labor and plant hired under a construction management
team of consultants engaged by DW.  Provincial governments often employ DW on
an agency basis, either to execute or call contracts for the construction of
small projects on provincial and village roads. Roadworks on village roads
are carried out largely by manual labor but sometimes with equipment, usually
supplied by DW, which also provides technical assistance to the local
government councils.
43.       In line with the Government's plan of promoting the domestic road
construction industry, the Second Highl.nds Road Improvement Project (Credit
677-PNG, the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-PNG) and the Road
Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG) included assistance to domestic road



- 13 -
construction contractors. However, the relative shortage of suitable small
road construction or maintenance contracts hampered the success of these
efforts. The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to continue the
previous efforts and implement corrective measures to develop the domestic
construction industry. During appraisal of the proposed project, DW agreed on
an action program that would immediately assist the industry by providing
technical assistance in professional skills to medium-size domestic
contractors in order to enable them to bid competitively for projects in the
DW program. It was agreed that the technical assistance services needed for
the implementation of the above action program would be partly financed under
the ongoing Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG) and would continue under
the proposed project.
Maintenance
44.       Maintenance of national roads and bridges is the responsibility of
DW and is performed through the 19 PWMOs. The technical standards are
satisfactory but the level of maintenance has been inadequate and routine
maintenance is particularly poor, mainly due to: (a) the lack, until very
recently, of a separate road maintenance branch within DW with staff employed
solely on road maintenance; (b) the lack of planning, programming and
monitoring of road maintenance operations; (c) the distribution of maintenance
allocations among PWMOs without consideration of road conditions, traffic
volume, and climatic and geological conditions; (d) diversion of maintenance
funds to road improvements; (e) the high cost of plant and vehicles handled by
the Plant and Transport Branch (PTB) of DW; and (g) the lack of routine
maintenance equipment. In the past, budgetary allocations provided by the
National Government for maintenance of the national road network were adequate
and the Government is expected to continue to provide sufficient funds during
project implementation and thereafter. During negotiations an understanding
was reached with the Government that the annual consultation between the
Government and the Bank on the road maintenance program would be done in the
context of the annual consultation on the total public expenditure program for
PNG.
45.       Road maintenance in PNG was reviewed in depth under the Road Main-
tenance Study financed under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 1030-
PVC).   Under the study, completed in June 1985, consultants made recommenda-
tions for improvement of the existing organization at all levels, including
road maintenance management and financial procedures, and identified road
maintenance requirements in terms of equipment, materials and manpower for
various road maintenance operations. They also prepared guidelines for road
maintenance planning, programming, costing and monitoring as well as for
execution of all major road maintenance operations. In line with the
consultants' proposals, a Road Maintenance Unit (RMU), headed by the Principal
Road Maintenance Engineer appointed in March 1985, was created. Appointments
to key posts in RMU as well as to regional and provincial engineering and
technicians posts are still under way. In accordance with staffing require-
ments and training needs identified by the consultants for the implementation
of the guidelines, about 460 supervisory and clerical staff would be trained
at the two existing training centers. The program for 1986 was reviewed and
discussed with the Government and found satisfactory but the selection



- 14 -
criteria should be firmed up. During negotiations it was agreed that the
Government will (a) by December 31, 1986, establish criteria for selection of
staff to be trained; and (b) furnish to the Bank for comments by September 30
each year, commencing September 30, 1987, a staff training program for the
following year.
46.       The RMU, with the study team's help, updated the inventory of roads
and bridges and collected other relevant data so that, for the first time, the
1986 road maintenance budget levels will be based on real needs as opposed to
historical demand levels. Based on these updated road and bridge inventories,
DW prepared five-year resealing, regravelling and bridging programs. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) has agreed to finance a resealing/sealing
program, and, in order to economize on maintenance expenditures by avoiding
frequent regravelling, DW would seal heavily trafficked short road sections
near and within urban areas starting in 1986. Regravelling and bridging 5-
year programs include about 2,700 km of national gravel roads to be
regravelled and 86 bridges and 21 river crossings to be rehabilitated and
replaced.
47.       The Plant and Transport Branch (PTB) is responsible for procurement,
servicing, repairs and maintenance of equipment used by government departments
including the police, health, hospitals and provincial governments. The PTB
hires out plant and vehicles to the user departments on the basis of
individual hourly, daily or monthly hire rates. Operators and fuel are
usually provided by the user. The hire rates appear to be substantially above
hire rates in the private sector, however. Therefore DW hires plant and
vehicles from the private sector rather than use its own. As a result, the
plant and vehicles allocated to road maintenance and construction are
currently underutilized. This problem is being addressed in the ADB-financed
Study of DW Heavy Plant and Equipment. The objectives of the study are:
(a) to determine minimum plant requirements and appropriate hire rates; (b) to
identify possible courses of action to improve existing plant procurement,
disposal policies, maintenance and procedures; and (c) to identify possible
courses of action to implement practical management information systems
including staffing and training. The study will be completed by the end of
1986 and, based on consultants recommendations, the Government should prepare
an action program to improve present poor performance at PTB. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will furnish to the Bank the
action program for review and comments by June 30, 1987. Although the DW has
a great many plants and vehicles, there is a shortage of specific equipment,
particularly for routine road maintenance, such as pavement breakers, bitumen
hand sprayers, premix spotmixers, vibrators, hand operated rollers and grass
cutters.
Bank Investment in the Subsector
48.       The Bank Group has assisted the highway subsector through four high-
way projects totaling US$88.5 million. The first three projects have been
completed successfully.  The project perfgymance audit report for the First
Highway Project (Credit 204/Loan 693-PNG)- found that the Bank Group's
refusal to provide supplementary financing for the 90% project cost overrun
was unnecessarily harsh and that international competitive bidding (ICB) under



- 15 -
the conditions prevailing in PNG during 1970 may have contributed to the cost
escalation. The Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Cr. 677-PNG in
1977), completed in 1983, also suffered from an underestimation of costs by
75%, and the project was subsequently reduced. The Third Highway Project
(Credit 1030 Loan 1856-PNC in 1980) was completed in June 1985 after about 12
months' delay due to civil unrest and increases in the amount of earthworks
required because of unstable slopes.
49.       The experience gained under these projects raises several points of
special interest:
(a) land acquisition remains a long and troublesome process and is
likely to continue affecting project implementation in the future;
(b) the recruitment and training of PNG nationals for professional posts
is difficult due to the insufficient number of qualified candidates
for the engineering school. This is likely to be a long-term
problem; and
(c) the need to have detailed design work, rather than preliminary
engineering, completed before bidding is important to avoid problems
at the implementation stage.
The ongoing Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG) provides for rehabilita-
tion and upgrading of 277 km of provincial roads; rehabilitation and replace-
ment of 25 bridges; improvement of 54 km of the Highlands and Enga Highways;
and consultant services and technical assistance. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV -- THE PROJECT
Project Origin
50.       The project was initiated in 1983 under the on-going Road
Improvement Project (para. 49). Upon completion of the Transport Investment
Program Study in 1984 financed under that project, the Government prepared its
Transport Sector Plan in the context of the National Medium-Term Development
Plan (1986-1990). To implement the sector plan, the Government approached
several financing agencies, including the World Bank, for assistance in
financing the highest priority projects in the road and civil aviation
subsectors. The proposed project was prepared by DW, DT and DCAT, and
appraisal was completed in November 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington from May 26 to 30, 1986. The Government delegation was led by Mr.
Robert Kaul, First Assistant Secretary, Department of Finance. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 6107-PNG, dated June 3, 1986) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary Project Data are contained in Annex III.
6/   Report No. 1635, dated June 16, 1977.



- 16 -
Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
51.       The global objectives of the project are to:  (a) improve land
transport through reconstruction, upgrading and maintenance of national roads,
and reduce vehicle operating costs; (b) enhance air transport through equip-
ment replacement, improvement of safety standards and resealing and
regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons; (c) improve efficiency of road
maintenance through provision of road maintenance equipment and materials; and
(d) strengthen the institution building and improvement of the domestic
construction industry through provision of technical advisory services and
training of local staff. The proposed project would assist the Government to
implement its sector plan and a new transport policy which has evolved with
Bank's assistance and which emphasizes application of new investment criteria,
a greater role by the private sector and higher cost recovery. In addition,
Bank involvement in the proposed project is designed to further institutional
strengthening in the various subsectors.
Project Description
52.       The project would be implemented over a period of 5 years and would
consist of:
(a) reconstruction and upgrading of three national road sections
totalling about 80 km;
(b) rehabilitation and replacement of about 50 bridges and water cross-
ings totalling about 1,100 linear meters;
(c) regravelling of about 500 km of national gravel roads and provision
of road maintenance equipment and materials;
(d)  replacement of navigational, metereological and communication
equipment at 14 national airports; resealing and regravelling of
runways, taxiways and aprons at 16 airports; and rehabilitation and
improvement of drainage works and of fire stations at four airports;
(e) consultant services for economic and engineering studies and
construction supervision; and
(f) technical assistance to aid DW, DT, and DCAT in (i) implementing a
new transport policy; (ii) establishing a gravel pit inventory;
(iii) researching the possible use of coronous materials for road
maintenance; (iv) developing the domestic construction industry; and
(v) training of local staff and institution building.
Reconstruction and Upgrading of National Roads
53.       The project roads are located on the mainland and New Britain
Island, connecting major provincial centers of the Western Highlands and
Southern Highlands Provinces, and serving major development areas in Milne Bay
and West New Britain Provinces. Main developments in palm oil, cocoa and
timber production are under way and are expected to generate significant



- 17 -
traffic increases, particularly in heavy commercial vehicles, during the next
five years. In general, the existing gravel roads have adequate horizontal
and vertical alignments but inadequate drainage. The pavement has
deteriorated and has been deformed to the extent that it cannot be restored
through regular maintenance. Under the proposed project, the existing
drainage system would be improved and the existing gravel pavement would be
upgraded to bitumen standard. Detailed engineering for one road section is
being finalized by DW, preliminary engineering for the remaining two road
sections has been completed by consultants, and necessary details on pavement
and drainage improvements will be also prepared by consultants.
Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
54.       The project would include about 50 highest-priority bridges and
water crossings out of a total of 109 bridges and wet crossings included in
the 5-year program for a total of about 1,100 linear meters. In addition,
river training works would be included when and where required. Bridges
scheduled to be constructed in 1987 were identified by DW and evaluated by
DT. Detailed engineering for these bridges is expected to be prepared by
consultants and DW during 1986 and will be financed under the ongoing project
(Loan 2265-PNG).
Road Maintenance Progra
55.       Of 2,700 km of national roads included in the 5-year regravelling
program, about 500 km of highest priority gravel roads would be regravelled
during the first 3 years (1987-1989). The project also includes procurement
of the most essential road maintenance equipment and materials (Bailey
bridges, culvert pipes, gabions, guard rail, etc.) needed for routine and
emergency maintenance operations.
Improvement of Airports
56.       Replacement of Airport Equipment.  The existing navigational,
telecommunications and meteorological equipment was purchased and installed
for the most part 20 years ago and has reached the end of its economic and
technical life. In addition, it is no longer produced and spare parts are not
available. Therefore the consultants under TIPS proposed, and the Government
agreed, to a five-year equipment replacement program for 14 airports starting
in 1986. The proposed project would include replacement of this equipment.
During negotiations it was agreed that this project component would be
financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
57.       Resealing/Regravelling of Runways, Taxiways and Aprons.  A detailed
inventory of the national airports carried out by DCAT and DW indicates that
the surface of some runways, taxiways and aprons are substantially worn to the
extent that routine maintenance cannot restore them. In addition, drainage is
poor at some airports and requires immediate attention. To correct this
situation DCAT and DW prepared a four-year resealing/regravelling program
(1986-1990) including drainage and fire station improvements. The proposed
project would assist the Government in implementing its program and would
ensure safety of flight operations. During negotiations agreement was reached



- 18 -
with the Government on the first-year program, including works to be financed
retroactively (para. 62).
Consultant Services
58.       The proposed project would provide a total of 686 man-months of
consultant services. Consultant services for detailed engineering of the
roads and bridges would total 150 man-months; another 310 man-months of
services would be provided for construction supervision of roads, bridges and
airports. Also, the project would provide 226 man-months of consultant
services to prepare feasibility studies and detailed engineering needed for
preparation of future projects.
Technical Assistance and Trainin8
59.       Technical assistance totaling 308 man-months will be provided under
the project to strengthen DT, DW and DCAT. Technical assistance totaling
112 man-months would be provided to DT to assist in setting up a more
effective administration in implementing and monitoring the new transport
policy. The project would also provide 92 man-months to DW for preparation of
a gravel pit inventory and research on possible uses of coronous materials for
road maintenance; and 56 man-months to DCAT to support its policy planning
function and provide short term technical experts. Technical assistance would
also provide on-the-job training to local staff and would prepare them to take
over the expatriate positions upon completion of their contracts. In
addition, the project would provide for training equipment and overseas train-
ing of local middle management staff.
60.       In accordance with the action program to assist the construction
industry (para. 43), the project would provide for: (a) continuation of the
technical assistance to medium size domestic contractors; (b) technical
assistance and training of small domestic contractors; and (c) technical
assistance Eo DW to improve their contracting procedures. It has been agreed
that a single consulting firm would provide these technical assistance
services in the form of two civil engineers, one mechanical superintendent and
one supervisor, for a total of 48 man-months. The terms of reference for all
above technical assistance services have been agreed with DW.
Estimated Project Costs and Financing
61.       The total project cost, including right-of-way acquisition, is
estimated at US$64.7 million. This includes: (a) the estimated base cost as
of January 1986; (b) physical contingencies of 20X for the bridge
rehabilitation and replacement program, 15Z for upgrading of national roads
and 10% for all remaining project items; (c) price contingencies of 7.2% for
1986, 6.8% for 1987, 6.81 for 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4%
thereafter for local and foreign exchange components. Overall physical and
price contingencies combined represent 30% of the total project cost. The
foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$48.6 million, or about 75% of the
total project cost; the remaining US$16.1 million represent local costs, of
which US$6.6 million, or about 10% of total project costs are local taxes and
duties.



- 19 -
62.       The proposed Bank loan of US$45.5 million would finance the pro-
ject's foreign exchange, including US$2.0 million for retroactive financing
for expenditures for airport equipment, resealing and regravelling of runways,
taxiways and aprons, and feasibility studies incurred after January 1, 1986.
The loan would finance 70Z of the total estimated prnject cost or 78Z of the
total project cost excluding taxes and duties. Acquisition and installation
of airport equipment estimated at US$3.1 million would be financed by an ADAB
grant. The Government would finance the remaining US$16.0 million equivalent
through budgetary allocations to DW, DT and DCAT.
Project Implementation
63.       The project would be implemented by three government agencies: DW,
DT and DCAT. DW would be responsible for the detailed engineering of project
roads and bridges, improvement of national roads, rehabilitation and
replacement of bridges, road maintenance, resealing/regravelling of runways,
taziways and aprons, and technical assistance to DW; DT would be responsible
for feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for future projects and
technical assistance to DT; and DCAT would be responsible for procuring and
installing the airport equipment and for technical assistance to DCAT. Since
the project would be implemented by three agencies, there is an obvious need
for coordination. A project coordinator has been appointed from DW to ensure
necessary cooperation, monitor the progress of implementation, procurement,
project costs and expenditures and prepare progress reports for regular sub-
mission to the implementing agencies and to the Bank.
64.       Following the Government's National Development Plan, the project
would be implemented over a five-year period starting in 1986 and should be
completed by June 30, 1991. Project implementation would start immediately
after loan effectiveness because detailed engineering is not required for
regravelling of national roads and resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways
and aprons, and detailed engineering for upgrading of one project road (Mai-
Bavusi) is about to be completed. Also, procurement of road maintenance
equipment and materials can start immediately. During appraisal the imple-
menting agencies prepared a detailed action program. In summary, the action
program calls for preparatory works including bidding for the first year's
civil works and starting work on the national airports by the end of 1986.
Procurement of the most urgent airport equipment, resealing/regravelling of
runways, taxiways and aprons and preparation of feasibility studies for future
projects would start in 1986. Road construction would start in early 1987 and
would be completed by October 1990. Regravelling of national roads would
start in late 1986 and would be completed by the end of 1988, and road main-
tenance equipment and materials would be procured and delivered by the end of
1988. The remaining civil works and equipment procurement and delivery would
be completed by mid-1990. Institutional strengthening and training would
start in late 1986 and will continue throughout the project implementation.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government would adhere
to the agreed action program and implementation schedule.
65.       Improvement of national roads would be carried out by international
contractors, and the remaining works would be carried out by local contractors
and PMFA. Consultants would supervise the larger civil works projects; the



- 20 -
PWMOs would supervise only the small projects.  During negotiations a list of
roads and bridges included in the first year work program was agreed and
assurances were obtained that the Government will: (a) furnish to the Bank for
comments by September 30 each year a list of roads, bridges and runways to be
included in the next year's work program; and (b) include in the program only
roads and bridges with an ERR of 12Z or higher.
66.       In order to assist the domestic construction industry, the Govern-
ment agreed during appraisal that road maintenance work would be provided to
selected qualified domestic contractors. DW would thus select a few small
domestic contractors in a province or in neighboring provinces and invite them
to bid among themselves for road maintenance contracts valued at less than
K 300,000; only these selected contractors would be allowed to participate in
bidding during 1987 and 1988. This temporary arrangement should provide the
small domestic contractors with sufficient work to facilitate their training
under technical assistance services, after which they should be able to
operate independently. This would not only develop the construction industry
but would, in the long term, also provide more opportunities for labor
employment. During negotiations, it was agreed that work totaling at least
US$3.5 million would be first offered to qualified small contractors selected
for training during 1987 and 1988.
Procurement and Right-of-Way Acquisition
67.       Civil Works.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used
to procure improvements to the three national roads estimated at US$16.0 mil-
lion equivalent in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 1985. Procurement of the remain-
ing civil works through ICB would not be appropriate because the contracts
involved will be relatively small (up to US$300,000) and scattered all over
the country and will be phased over a period of 4 years. Therefore, these
works, including rehabilitation and replacement of bridges, regravelling of
national roads and resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons
totaling US$19.5 million will be awarded to prequalified contractors on the
basis of local competitive bidding under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The remaining bridging and regravelling work estimated at US$4.3 mil-
lion equivalent would be carried out by Project Managed Force Account. All
procurement documents for civil works over US$0.5 million equivalent would be
subject to the Bank's prior review which will cover about 72X of the proposed
loen.
68.       Equipment and Materials.  Road maintenance equipment and materials,
and laboratory equirment estimated at US$7.3 million equivalent would be pro-
cured on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Pro-
curement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." Contracts for equipment and
materials estimated to cost more than US$0.5 million equivalent each would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. Procurement of small off-the-shelf items
costing less than US$10,000 equivalent would be done by shopping in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines. The total amount of such purchases should not
exceed US$400,000 equivalent.



- 21 -
69.       Consultant Services and Technical Assistance.  Consultant services
for detailed engineering, construction supervision, studies and technical
assistance estimated at US$12.5 million equivalent would be obtained in accor-
dance with the relevant Bank Guidelines. The table below summarizes the key
procurement information.
PROCUREMENT SUMMARY /a
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project elements                       ICB      LCB       Other    N/A      cost
Civil Works
-  Improvement of national roads        16.0       2.8                        18.8
(10.2)    (1.8)                      (12.0)
-  Bridge rehabilitation and                       7.4      2.5                9.9
replacement program                            (4.7)    (1.6)             (6.3)
-  Regravelling of national roads                  5.3      1.8                7.1
(3.4)    (1.2)             (4.6)
-  Resealing/regravelling of run-                  4.0                         4.0
ways, taxiways and aprons                      (2.6)                      (2.6)
Subtotal                        16.0     19.5       4.3              39.8
(10.2)   (12.5)    (2.8)             (25.5)
Equipment and Materials
Road maintenance and laboratory          4.2                0.2                4.4
equipment                            (4.2)              (0.2)             (4.4)
Road maintenaace materials               3.1                                   3.1
(3.1)                                (3.1)
Subtotal                         7.3                0.2               7.5
(7.3)              (0.2)             (7.5)
Services
Consultant services, technical                             12.5               12.5
assistance and training                                (12.5)            (12.5)
Right-of-Way Acquisition                                              0.5      0.5
Total                           23.3     19.5      17.0      0.5    60.3
(17.5)   (12.5)   (15.5)      (-)   (45.5)
/a Excluding airport equipment to be financed by ADAB.
Notes:   1.  Amounts shown for each project component include contingencies.
2. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan.



- 22 -
70.       Right-of-Way.  The Government acquires right-of-way as far in
advance as possible, through the Department of Land and Provincial Governments
by negotiations. There have been cases in the previous projects where delay
in acquiring right-of-way has caused disruption of scheduling. However, the
proposed right-of-way acquisition for the project would be minimal and limited
only to drainage improvements of the national roads and replacement of
existing bridges and would be minimal. Therefore this is not now considered a
major problem and during appraisal it was agreed that right-of-way acquisition
would be completed during the detailed engineering stage. During
negotiations, assurances were nbtained that the Government will take timely
action to make available the right-of-way on each project road section and
bridge prior to bid invitation or about six months before contract award.
Disbursement
71.       Disbursements would be made on the following bases:
(a) 64% of the total expenditures for civil works including:
(i) improvement of national roads; (ii) rehabilitation and
replacement of bridges; regravelling of national roads; and
resealing/regravelling of runways, taxiways and aprons; drainage and
fire stations;
(b) 1002 of the c.i.f. cost of all equipment and materials procured
directly from abroad and 65% of the actual cost of imported
equipment and materials procured locally; and
gc) 100% of total expenditures on consultant services, technical
assistance and training.
72.       Disbursements for expenditures on road construction carried out by
contract would be fully documented. Disbursements for civil works contracts
under US$100,000 equivalent, small equipment items procured by shoppirg, and
works executed by force account will be made on the basis of withdrawal
applications supported by statements of expenditures on work performed and
duly certified by DW. Reimbursement applications for these works and for
small equipment items procured by shopping would be submitted when the
aggregate amount reaches US$100,000 or equivalent, or every 3 months,
whichever comes first. DW will maintain and make available to the Bank's
representatives, when required, all relevant documentation in support of the
statements of expenditures. Payments will be subject to internal audit by DW
and by the Government Auditor-General's Office.
Auditing and its Lending
73.       The DW's, DT's and DCAT's accounting procedures are broadly satis-
factory and subject to a continuous external review by the Government's Com-
mission on Audit (COA). During negotiations it was agreed that the Government
will furnish to the Bank, within six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of the audit report of the project expenditures.



- 23 -
Environmental Aspects
74.       The project is not expected to cause any environmental or ecological
problems. No major changes in the alignment of project roads will be made and
therefore the requirements for additional land and disturbance to property
would be minimal. The improvement works include such features as bridge and
drainage improvements. Raising embankments would improve not only environ-
mental conditions along the roads but also road safety.
Benefits and Economic Return
75.       The project will have a wide ranging impact on the transport system
of Papua New Guinea, with various components affecting all of the provinces
either in the road or air transport subsectors. The economic case for the
physical components of the project rests on a reduction in vehicle operating
costs, a decrease in repair and rehabilitation costs of the road network, ar.d
a reduction in freight damage, travel time and other economic and social costs
associated with the existing condition and use of the road network. The
critical factor justifying the airport improvements is operations safety.
76.       The direct benefits of the Program will accrue in the first instance
to the traders and transport operators in the form of reduced operating
costs. Although officially tariffs are controlled, in practice they are com-
petitive. The Government is now moving towards full deregulation of the
transport sector, which will ensure that reduced transport operating costs are
passed on to producers and/or consumers through greater competition.
Furthermore. better road conditions will reduce importation of vehicles and
spare parts by lessening the wear and tear on existing vehicles, thus reducing
the demand for foreign exchange. For certain areas, the improved and expanded
network of all-weather roads will stimulate agricultural production in the
long run and will improve the integration in the market economy. The benefi-
ciaries of airport improvements will ultimately be the transport users, as
competition among the airlines is expected to have a beneficial impact on
fares.
77.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 34% for those
components included in the economic evaluation, which amounts to about 57% of
the project costs. Rates of return for various components are as follow:
(a) restructured aad upgraded roads, 13-28%; regravelling program, 74Z for the
first year; and bridge programs, 40-43Z. The airport improvement program was
justified on safety grounds, therefore no ERR was calculated. Benefits have
not been quantified for the purchase of road maintenance equipment, materials,
laboratory equipment, consultant services and technical assistance and
training, although they are expected to improve operations in the DT, DW and
DCAT. The bridge replacement and rehabilitation program as well as the road
regravelling program yield rates of return which are not especially sensitive
to reductions in benefits or increases in costs. For the reconstruction and
upgrading of national roads, sensitivity tests carried out indicate that a 15%
increase in costs or 15% decrease in benefits still yield acceptable results
in all cases except for one, the Kaupena-Ialibu section. It was agreed at
negotiations that this component would be included in the project only if the
economic rate of return calculated after bid receipt is at least 11%.



- 24 -
The Project Risks
78.       Two major types of risk affect the project.  The first is the
possibility of delays in implementation, which were also experienced under
previous projects because of difficulties over right-of-way acquisition caused
by customary land ownership. The second risk is that the project policy and
institutional objectives may not be met because necessary expatriate staff may
not be recruited according to schedule or because the Government may not
assign sufficient numbers of national officers to work with foreign experts.
To reduce these risks, the Government agreed to take timely action for
acquisition of the right-of-way needed for civil works, to make available
right-of-way prior to bid invitation or about six months before contract
award. The project coordinator was appointed prior to negotiations to ensure
the timely appointments of technical assistance staff and counterparts to be
trained.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 16, 1986
Washington, D. C.



- 25-
ANNEX I
TAOLEt IA                                     Page  1 of  6
rl           e           snUicc 1"ounM {tGtwllo Anums) ,
IWOL&  170~k. uTINTIk          ASA       313 lUau? INTDINAT
116d-b    iT7QL!  sTSTgSb           ASIA A 7UACIC           LAT. AHRICA   CaR
AmA cI03f sq. no)
TOTAL                              461.7       431.7       461.7
AS0ULTUIAL                           3.7         4.6          4*                          
PM CEIA (TUM)                       *.          .-        760.0            IOII.1                    1375.9
u. aunm uu mT PMCAPIT
(CSIAGRAU  O7 OU. EQUIVAUT)         37.0       114.0       240.0             566.3                     993.6
POzULAONenTgL C  THNSAeS)   m1932.0    a2&1.O              3QO      /h
UUA  IGUPATCSN 12 Of TOTAL)          2.7         9.3        13.8               33.9                     67.7
POIPULAUtoN PIOJRCTIONI
O9LATCIO KU "a 2000 (Hil")                                 4.6
ITATI0NAII POPULATION (HILL)                               9.0
POPULAVuOU NOIIDIrMK                                       1.9
POPUATION 03811T?
PEP. sq. Un.                       4.2         5.2         6.9             366.9                      48.0
M  EQ. IN. ACI. LAtD             520.8       555.9       651.7             1591.2                     91.1
urULrATIOu AGE SsUCTUR (X)
0-14 YU                          60.6        42.0        42.6               38.2                     38.5
15-  YIRS                         56.6        54.9        53.9              57.7                      57.1
65 AND AOE                         2.3         3.0         3.6                3.5                      4.2
POFULAnON CGR0nH 3T3 CZ)
TOTAL                              1.6         2.2        2.3   /h           2.3                       2.4
03865                             15.3        15.2         7.3                4.1                      3.6
CeUDa SIXTH RATI CMII T7O1S)        ".O         41.5        35.0               30.1                     30.9
CRUDE DzArn IASC CPU Ta0s0)         23.2        16.1        14.0                9.4                      8.0
CROS EZFRODUCT%OM RATE.              3.0         3.0         2.4                1.9                      2.0
PAKXL? PLANIII
AcCgsOIeS. ANNAL (Ts)              ..          ..
USURS CZ OP  AED VOW)              ..          ..           .O               56.5                      5.3
IEX  OF FM0 n30. m   CPITA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0       100.0        9.O              124.6                     109.6
PFM CAPITA ELY OP
CeAOR I Z or 0 _ Em xr)           71.0        7a.0        14.0              115.7                    113.2
P307211S (CUIIS PER OAY)          33.0    *    2.0        43.0              60.3                      69.4
OF miXCH AIAiL AIE PULS          17.0        20.0        20.0 c             14.1                     36.2
CRILD (AMU 1-4) 3OU  RATE           26.1        19.9        12.0               7.2                       *.d
LIE FtZPECT. AT DIMs (TAN)          40.6        46.6       53.5               60.6                      66.6
IANST 1 . rATE (PER 7101)          165.0       133.0        97.0              64.9                      59.7
ACCSS TO SAN WATER (IPOP) 
TOTAL                              ..         13.6        11.0              46.                       65.3
111AM                                         'a 61.3     35.0 7d           57.6                      76.5
RuRAL                              ..         10.0        io. 71            37.1                      ".2
ACCESS STO EM A DISPOSAL
(t OP POPOULTXO)
TOTAL                              ..          6.6        14.0 /d           50.1                      56.3
RBN                                ..         42.0        96.0 7i           52.9                      73.4
RURAL                              ..          3.0         3. 7w            46.7                      25.5
POPUU??ON PERc  HYSIClA          19320.0    11630.0    13590.0 /a           7751.7                    1909.7
FPO. PU YU SINC PCRSON               ..       1800.0       960.0 7;         264.8                      608.2
POP. PER IQSPrTAL DU
TOTAL                            140.0 /i   150.0        250.0 /a          1312.1                    362.0
URBAN^I                            ..  -      f50.0      Ioo.o 7           651.4                     *22.0
RuL                                ..        260.0       270.0 7          2596.9                    2716.7
ADMISSIONS PIe WUSPITA.L lED         ..          ..          ..               41.1                      27.5
AVERAE sE OF UIIoSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.1         ..
RUM                                ..          ..
AVERAGE 50. OF PERS0YS/ROON
TOTAL                              0.7         ..
RUAL                               ..          ...
pEACMACE OF OWELL1YCS WTHI Ct£Cr.
TOTAL
CRUM                               ..          ..
Rua                                ..          ...



- 26-
ANNEX I
T A 8 L_E  ]A                                 Page  2  of  6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA       - SOCIL INDICAToRS DATA SHEET
PAPUA EIW CUINEU                     RERENCRE GROUPS (WEIGHTD AVERAGE) Is
HOST                     (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOM            MIDDLE INaCOE
1114b      1970Lk ESTNATLb          ASIA 6 PACIric          LAT. AICItCA  CAR
ADJUSTED CNROLLET RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   32.0        52.0        65.0              100.7                     106.7
MALE                   59.0        63.0        73.0              104.4                     108.5
WALE                    7.0        39.0        58.0              97.2                      104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    1.0        8.0        13.0              47.8                      ".2
HALE                    2.0        L1.O        17.0               50.6                      42.7
FEMALE                  1.0         4.0         8.0              44.8                       44.9
VOCATIONAL (C Or SECOIDART)         16.0        19.4        16.2               18.4                      13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMUAY                           35.0        30.0        32.0               30.4                      29.9
SUONDART                          18.0         ..         22.0              22.2                      1b.7
PASSENGER CARS/TIOUSAND POP          2.0         7.2         6.1 /a            10.1                     46.0
RADIO REcrivERsJTHOUSAND POP          ..         ..         67.1              172.9                    328.3
TV RECIYVERS/TIJSAND POP              ..         ..          .                 58.5                     112.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILl GENERAL
INTEREST") CIROCIATTON
PR THOUSAND POPULATON                .          .           9.3              65.3                       81.1
CINEMA ANNWAL ATTENDAICE/CAPITA       ..         ..          ..                 3.4                       2.4
La M
TorAL LABOR FORM (THOUS)          1058.0      1257.0      1550.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  41.4        41.3        40.9              33.6                       23.6
ACRICJLTURE (PERCENT)             89.0        86.0        62.1 /d           52.2                       31.4
INDUSTY (PERCENT)                  4.3         5.8         7.7               17.9                      24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             54.8        52.0        48.6               38.9                      33.5
MALE                              61.2        58.5        55.3               50.8                      51.3
FEKALE                            47.7        ".9         41.0              26.8                       15.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.8         0.9         1.0                1.1                       1.3
lEOcN DISlUDUTIS
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ST
HIGHEST 51 Or HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..
HIGHIEST 20 OP HOUSEHOLDS           ..         ..          ..               48.0
LOWEST 201 Of HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..          ..                6.4
LOWEST 4*0  OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         ..          ..                15.5
Sm  sEIQri
ESTIMATEO ABSOLUE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        400.0/a              ..                     288.3
RUtAL                               ..         ..        275.0             B151.9                     15.3
ESTIMAEAD RELATIVE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..               177.9                     519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               164.7                     359.7
ESTIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URaN                                ..         ..         10.0 ft           23.5
RNRAL                              ..          ..         75.0,             37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
HOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
Ia  Tha group averase  for each lndicator are populatton-weLghted aritmetic mans. Coverap of countries
swung the Lidicator, depend. on avaiLability of data and IN not uniform.
/b   Unless otherviaa noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; 'Date for 1970" betwaen
1969 and 1971: and data for "Most Recent Ertluate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977; ,d 1980; /I 1978; /f 1964; jL  1979.   /h  1984
JINE, 1985



ANNEX I
- 27   -                                              Page  3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notea: Athoughthedatafedrltw f(rum souren generelly juded tbe moat authoritatie end reliable. n ,hould alw be ited tehlt ihc md~ nt be mintern.tmnnall
eomparble beuae do the lack a standardied defintions and eoncepts ud by different countri in collkitng the dal The dat ere. nonethekts. url itu
describe arden or magnitude. indicate trendr. and characterize certain major difference, between countres.
The releuence groupsa en  ) the mue counuy group o the subject eountry and (2) a couny group with onmewhat hilerag minome then the ountry
group of te wsuboet couatry (Rept for H   Income Oil Eporte" grup whew 'Middle Income North Africa and Middl Ear mb chosen becausc of uirouner
dcJo.caltirl &nitie). In the reference group data the averas at popultion weighted arithmetic means for each indicator end shown only when majonit
o thecountrie ina roup li data ror that Indiator. Sine the covee ofcountrie mn the indico depends on the avataibility ordata and is not unifom.
otrionmu tbeeerciedi rdatiitgavefg raon indicato r toanotle Theseavers are only ureul in compeng the vulue of one indAtoratatimetamong
the country and nelicem gropL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Crude lr Rate (pefr rhusaad)-Number orlive birth in the year
Toa-Total eurfac area comprising land aea and inland water;     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crud Deth Rate (per 1hoJsandI-Nlumber ordealhs in the year
Agrieuhm'a-Estimate of agricultural area used temporaily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemnanently for crops. pastru  market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repredactl  Rate-Averge number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
presnt Wspecific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prioes calculated by sme convcrsion method as World            y fl,m.i-Accepas Arau  (thamsends)-Annual num-
Bank As/as (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of binh-control devices under auspice of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    frmily planning program.
consumption of cotmmercial primary energy (coal and lignite,     Famly Plamq-Users (percent ef seer/kd wwmen)-The peren-
petroleum  naturl gas and hydro-. nuckar and geothermal elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontrception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usae is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groupL
Teeana pabiAu,Mid-Yea (rh1913mau)-As of July l; 1960. 1970,      FOOD AND NUTRIMON
and 1983 data.
Index ref FedProducieo PerCap tta (196L-7-- 1001)-Index of per
Urba  P.ufaek. (perent  o  taoi-Ratio   o of tartan to total     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
--pOlari  pe*e,ia.                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Populauion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,   excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables fruits, nuts, sugarane and sugar beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intenational migration in the base year 19f0. these panmeters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65o 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capita Supply ercis (pret efre-renuars)-Comput-
Stationary popularwsls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent or net food supplies available in country
taliy rates have not changed over a long peiod, while age-spcific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacment level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agiculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ratce the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment levd.                                         waste at household levl; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popu&nion Memennam-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Prueii/ (rns per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacment-level fertlity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the nct rproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year a is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r, given the assumption that fertility remains at eplace  should be animal protein These standards are lower than those of
meat level from year a onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-Ati.. Dkewv                                                     average for the world proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capia   een Suypply Sm Animl and Phe-Protein supply
Per sqkn. agrwcmral Mani-Computed as above for agricultural      of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960 1970, and 1982 dataL                             1970 and 1977 data.
Apara Age Strutte (perce)--Children (0-14 years) work-           CAN(ages 1-4) DeAt Rate (per skasad)l-Number of deaths of
ing age(S-64years).andretired(65yearsandover)asprcentage         children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Repalarie. Gresuth Rare (perceatI-tatal---Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-  1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Papukilah  Groth Rare 'p      )-ean-Annual growth rates          Lie Expecany at Bdrt (yews)-Number of yers a newborn
or urban population for 195-60. 1960-70, and 1970-43 dataL       infant would live if pevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
-28-                                                 Page 4 of 6
at the time of or its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire:  Pupl-reacher Ratio - primaryr. and .e;rndurr--Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1993 data.                                     rolled in primary and seondary lvels divided by numhnr% -f
SXaf Mhfonarp Rite (per ihousid)-Number of infants who die     teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Ace   o Sf   tter (percent of 1ppdl -e.rd)_tota  urlan, au     Pasee Car (per thosad p.palatiou)-Passenger cars com-
runra-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor car se ating kl  than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to sare water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hear-us and military vehicles.
untrated but unontaminated water such as that from proteed     Radio ReceuW   (per thousn popodanjii-All types of receivers
boreholes sprins and sanitary wel) as percentas of their rupe-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations in an urban area a publc fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receiver in countries and in years when
located not more tham 200 meter from a house may be conidered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reonable acces of that house. In rural areas   no be comprable since mosl countries abolished licensing
reasonable access would imply that the houswwife or members of the nobecmablsiemstouresblshdiesng
houelhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Reevers (rs thmus opulata)-TV recivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Acmen tro Ercrets Dlrpwl (permead of papolaJte)--toraL, urban,  receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
ad rwal-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by   in e
excreta disposd as percentages of their respective populations.  NWww,n Crcadan (aper thousandpopuatdm)i-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of daily general interest newspaper defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systms or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least Four times a week.
PAWnodulaper P     oyslan-Thpulation divided by number of prac-  Ciem  Anual Anendaw per Capit per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
ftp.lsoa per Nursing Perwm-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses   LAOR FORCE
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                          Lor FORCE
flpuludhu pe HasWsa BNe-ttl, ub, ad rural-Population           Tl   are fousand  jnEcnome cabut  ct            iveso in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divked by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives
hospital bedsavail)ble inpubiandepbivaty gecaland              students. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hosptal eds vaiablein pbli aidprivte,geneal ad ~various countries are not comparable; 1960, l970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Female (paent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriutre (percenti-Labor force in fanning, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a nmedical assistant, nurse midwire, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 160. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities,                                         Industy (vpercent)--Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admssion pee Hostel Bed8l-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Parnipaion Rate (percenrJ-total, mae andfemal-Paticipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Avrage S9e o f HousAod (peros per  sehSod)-rotal, uban         as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
androurl-A househol consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectingage-sexstructureofthe population and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Nd ber of Persons per Roon-sotal, urban, and rua--     Economic Depdwny Raio-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pt- a                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pereenage of DOieeEns with Elecrricity-total, wban, ad rurl-   Percentgep of Toal Dispable  cn  (bth in cas ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enrolmenr Rados                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Plnmwy school - total. male and fenmale--Gross totaL male and  leves, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment or all ages at the primary level as percentages of  EsimtedAbsole Poverty Incom  Led  (055 per cyapiarban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rual-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 years, others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differencs in country practices in the ages and durtion of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estunated ReaKve Pety lncoe Level (U   per capkita -rban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 peent since some    aNd rural-Rural relativc poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higber cost of
Secondary sol - total, mal and femaek-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires a least four years of approved pn-  EsJued P     qOle,. Bdew Absolue Poverty Incme Level (pe-
mary instruction provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cent.-urboa and rurl- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ecae courses ars generally excluded.
Vocatond Efnnhi (pecent ofscnday)-Vocational instiu-                     Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude tchncal indusuiaL or other prograts which operate         Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



0NEX T
- 29                                                 Page 5 of 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
COUNTRY DATA /a
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODuICT IN 1984
ANNIAL RATE OF GROWTH (X constant K)
1S$ mln           2                      197n-7fi        1975-R4        1983-R4
CNP at market prices                  2,109.4        loo.n                       2.Q/b           1.9/h          1.n
Gross domestic investment                581.3      2.2                        5.6              3.-         -20.R
Gross national savinRs                   307.7        11.3
Current account balance                -33n.0       -14.3
Export of Roods, NFS                   I,nl7.n       44.n                       18.1            2.2             3.n
Import of goods, NFS                  1,290.7        55.9                       2.7             1.9             1.7
OUTPUT, FMPLnYMF.NT AND PRODIICTIVITY IN 19R0
Value added                 Labor force         Value added per worker
USS min /c        Z           Mln           2         IISS/c i
Agriculture                   811          35.1         1.0n       87.7            RII             2.7
Industry                      647          2R.01       0.n3         2.6        21,567            71.6
Services                      852          36.9        n.11         9.7         7,745           27.7
Total/Average         2,310         lon.0         1.14       100.0        3n,123           10n.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                 Central government
t mln                          Z of GDP
1984                  1979             1984
Current domestic receipts                              4R8.n                   17.1             22.5
Current expenditure                                    647.n                   27.6             2q.R
Current surplus                                       -159.0                  -17.1             -7.3
Capiral expenditure                                      95.n                   5.,               4.4
MONEY, CRFDIT AND PRICES                                1980          1981          19R2          1983          1984
-    - _) _    _  ------------ (R m…n)-
Money supply                                              553           555           568          650            75n
Bank credit to public sector                                R            41            71             5            -5
Rank credit to private sector                            2Rn           172           4S5           413            Sni
-------------- Percentage of index numbers -------------
Money as 2 of rDP                                        31.9          31.5          12.5          12.5          34.6
Consumer price Index (1977-100)                         129.5         135.6         141.0         154.1         165.R
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                                   12.1          8.n            5.5          7.8            7.5
Bank credit to public sector                           n.5           2.5            4.0          0.3          -0.1
Bank credit to private sector                          11.7         12.7            R.9         2n.3           19.n
/a  As of January 1, 197R, PNC changed its fiscal vear from July I-Juine 10 to .Tanuarv I-December ..  All data have
been adjusted to a calendar term basis.
/b  Growth rates are calaculated in Itne at end points.
Jc  At factor cost (current prices).  Most recent data not available.
not applicable
not available
April 19R6



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
- 30 -
PAPUA NEW CUINEA
COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (USS mln)            1982       1983      1984         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-84) (USS min)
Exports of goods, NFS                    863.6     926.0   1,017.0         Coffee                                 126.7        14.5
lmports of goods, NFS                  1,395.3   1,360.0   1,290.7         Cocoa                                   58.6         6.7
Resource gap (Deficit - -1)            -531.7    -434.9    -273.7          Copra & copra products                  62.1         7.1
Timber and timber products              71.1         8.1
Factor services (net)                    -93.4     -96.3    -263.4         Copper concentrates                    181.4        20.7
Transfers (net)                          138.2      160.7     168.0        Gold                                   232.4        26.6
Balance on current account             -486.9    -370.5    -330.1          All other commodities                  142.4        16.1
Private capital (net)                    378.3      312.°     247.5             Total                             874.7       100.0
Public MLT loans (net)                   101.7      152.3      16.8
Errors and omissions /a                  -32.6       14.4      115.4       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1984                 US$ iln
Increase In reserves                    -40.7      109.1       28.0
Public debt including guaranteed                   1.209
Import of fuel and related               198.1     200.7      175.1        Nonguaranteed private debt                           890
materials                                                                Total outstanding and disbursed                    2,099
EXCHANGE RATE                                                              NET DEBT SERVICE RATIU FOR 1984 /b                   2
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985          Public debt, including guaranteed                   13.0
Nonguaranteed private debt                          23.1
USSI - K            0.67    0.67    0.74    0.83    0.89    1.00           Total outstanding and disbursed                     36.1
K - US$             1.49    1.49    1.36    1.20    1.12    1.00
IBRD LENDING (March 31. 1986)                 USS min
IBRD    IDA
Outstanding and disbursed                  127.3  112.0
Undisbursed                                 95.9    1.1
Outstanding including undisbursed  223.2  113.1
/a Includes capital n.e.i.
71 Interest and amortization payments as a percent of exports of goods and services.
April 1986



ANNEX II
- 31 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PIG
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits /a
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (US$ million
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
credit                                                                          Undis-
number    Year  Borrower             Purpose                   Bank    IDA      buried
Eight loans and eleven credits fully disbursed            87.5    91.4         -
0841-PNG  1978    PNG      Rural Development                     -     20.0       0.58
1934-PNG  1981    PNG      Primary Education                   6.0       -        2.99
2125-PNG  1982    PNG      Enga Provincial Development          6.0      -         3.48
1279-PNG  1983    PNG      Petroleum Technical Assist.          -       3.0/b     0.50/c
2265-PNG  1983    PNG      Road Improvement                    31.0      -       25.70
2276-PNG  1983    PNG      Agric. Support Serv.                14.1      -        12.79
2395-PNG  1984    PNG      Secondary Education                49.3       -       41.77
2475-PNG  1985    PNG      West Sepik Provincial                9.7      -         9.21
2608-PNG  1986    PNG      Nucleus Estate & Smallholder       27.6       -         -/d
2624-PNG  1986    PNG      Third Agricultural Credit           18.8      -          -7
Total                                                    250.0   114.4       97.02
Of which has been repaid                                  18.7      1.3        -
Total now outstanding                                    231.3   113.1         -
Amount sold                        8.1                     0.0      0.0
Of which has been repaid           8.1
Total Loans Now Held by Bank and IDA                     223.2   113.1
Total Undisbursed                                         95.9      1.08     97.02
B. Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).
/c Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of US$
commitment.
/d As of March 31, 1986, loan was not yet effective.



- 32 -                               ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project    :  16 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project  :  DT, DW, DCAT with assistance
from consultants
(c)  Date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project             :  February 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission         : October 1985
ge)  Negotiations completed                 : May 1986
(f)  Planned datr  of effectiveness         : October 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(i) consult annually with the Bank on its investment program for
roads and airports for the subsequent year (pars. 29);
(ii) consult annually with the Bank on the road maintenance program
(para. 44);
(iii) by December 31, 1986, establish criteria for selection of staff
to be trained (para. 45);
(iv) furnish to the Bank by September 30 each year the staff
training program for the following year (para. 45);
(v) furnish an action program for PTB for review and comments to
the Bank by June 30, 1987 (para. 47);
(vi) furnish to the Bank for comments by September 30 each year a
list of roads and bridges to be included in the next year's
program, comprising only roads and bridges with an ERR of at
Least 12Z (para. 65);



- 33 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
(vii)  offer work totaling at least US$5.0 million to selected quali-
fied small contractors (para. 66);
(viii)  take timely action to acquire right-of-way for each road
section and bridge prior to bid invitation (para. 70); and
(ix)  review bid prices for the Kaupena-Ialibu section with the Bank;
final acceptance of this component is subject to 11 rate of
return after receipt of bid prices (para. 77).



144@
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SEP/K   i                                 'TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT.
EAsr SEP/K
.                          i
\~~~~~~~~~ i --
-3-r 
,                     |    ~~~~~~~~~  _ ~~~~M  A N U S
MA D A NG G
/\/    WE-
*              -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Modong
6j    :    t      e      r      o       f     s      -      -
SOUTHERNI-,.
, /        HIGHtANDS
-     '   ~ '-f.?EASTRN  )
Kt;                           HHGHiANS4 :                        MOROBE'f
N'M.nygmya   Blol
Kikori
WESTERN
-~~~~~~~~.
wo'     -                                                 %0:  vO        -  
I                                  I;;<  
Beredna dy/
-  ..-._ _.~           ~     \ >          G ULZ F                i                 i F
.00*                                                                  PORT  MORESBY                  P
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                  I                 0
(D  HIRITANO HIGHWAY             ®  ENGA HIGHWAY                      CENTRA I
. -  ) MAGI HIGHWAY                ®) HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY
; ®  NORTHERN (ORO) HIGHWAY        ®  RAMU HIGHWAY        KILOMETERS°   4,0  aI0  120  160   KupIano
I     NATIONAL HIGHWAY          ®9  COASTAL HIGHWAY         MILES g   *   0  60   0  1
.    SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS HIGHWAY   (3 NEW BRITAIN HIGHWAY            2   40  o   Bo  100
147'



IBRD  19553
150'                                               153'
tCAJECT                    +VaCi
C_             ~~~~~TABOR 
% _        ~~~ISLANDS
LIHIR GROUP
NEW IRELAND 
AAII8                TANGA ISLANDS
NE W          /REfAND                               Nomotanoai
!~~~~~~ Is
_%  Roboul           X-*- -  -*-  ,FENI ISLANDS
BOUGAINVILLE
r N E W   B RITA /N
\~~~                . -  -  - . -  J
Tolosoo       Biallo    /                                     - *-ABun
Tolasec     Hoskins                                                             Su k a0
*w;vuvusi   @2.                                                   I
*        MNEW BRITAIN
PROPOSED PROJECT
E  A  S r                       Highways Sections
* NEf W   BR /TA ~ 1Airports
!                                        PREVIOUS PROJECTS
i                                         Rood Construction and Improvement*
FIRST PROJECT LOAN 693 CREDIT 204 PNG
:  SECOND PROJECT CREDIT 677 PNG
I                                           I1 THIRD PROJECT LOAN 1856 CREDIT 1030 PNG
l Road Improvement Project Loan 1265 PNG
/- -. -.-  -    -  -  - -- -        2      Projects by Other Agencies
2RrHERN                                                         Future Major Roads (National)
*As                      Nationol Roods
!            KirMirina0                     Mojor Provinciol Roads
MILNE BAY                                    Rivers
/    MILNE BAY                        -:-: ^.<   Mountainous Areas (2,000 -3,000Meters)
i  -   -  Province Boundaries
Bay~
oBosg  -   -  International Boundaries
! s- . PHILIPPINES
1',. .,P hal 0bqPaWg by
*P. _ aaWs OM.g -_t_   MALAYSIA -       PAPUA NFW GU,kjiNEA
o _  .   a# TheMb10b,    I N D 0 N E S I A
vCi° - 8q1~~~~..  rw  w ~ W              F
~_ ,Alotou                 V.1 111
1__                                                       AU$'bAMI .  7.  ADaA 01
___f of Tft WM _ r  am, noF MAP
i  Gurney                      &..,ftr,,,oot
150'~~~~~~~~~~ms r           '     of             A u s  t. I I   a
FEBRUARY 1986






