Document of
THE WORLD BANK
For Official Use Only
Report No. P 7018 -ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
OF US$400 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
November 13, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currcncv l nit       =              New Peso (NP)
US$It)=                             NP$7.5 (December 22, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP           Administradoros de 1;ondos de Pensiones
(Pension FLnd Administrator - Chile)
AFORE         Admnirnstradora de Fondos para el Retiro.
(Pension Fund Administrator)
BANOBRAS  Banco Nacional de Ohras y Servicios ji blicos, S. X C.
CNBV          Comision iVacional Bancaria v de Valores.
(National Banking and Securities Commission)
CNSF          Comision Nacional cle Seguros y Fianzas.
(National Insurance and Bonding Commission)
CONSAR        Comision Nacional del Sistensa de Ahorro para el Retiro.
(National Commission of the Retirement Savings System)
FAMV          Fondo de Apoyo al Mercado de Valores
(Securities Market Support Fund)
FOBAPROA   Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorro
(Bank Fund for Savings Protection)
FOVI          Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancarto a la Vivienda.
(Housing Financing Trust Fund)
FOVISSSTE   Fondo para la Vzvienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE.
(Government Workers' Housing Fund)
FSRL          Financial Sector Restructuring Loan.
FSRP          Financial Sector Restructuring Program.
FTAL          Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
IMSS          Inst7tuto Mexicano del Seguro Social.
(Mexican Social Security Institute)
INFONAVIT  Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda de los Trobajadores.
(National Workers' Housing Fund Institute)
ISSSTE        Instutwo de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado.
(Institute of Security and Social Services for Government Workers)
IV            Seguiro de Invalide-y Vida
(Disability and Life Lnsurance)
IVCM          Invalidez, Yejez, Cesantia en Fdad Avanzada, y Muerte
(Disability, Old age. Severance, and Death Insurance Coverages)
RCV           Seguro de Retiro. Cesantia en Edad Avonzada, y Vejez
(Old Age and Severance)
MPG           Minimum Pension Guarantee
NAFTA         North American Free Trade Agreement
PROCAPTE   Programa de Capitalizacion Temporal
(Temporarv Capitalization Program)
SAR           Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro (Retirement Savings System)
SHCP          Secretaria de Haciendtay Credito Piiblico.
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SIEFORE       Sociedad de Inversiones Especializadas de Fondos Para el Retiro
(Specialized Pension Fund).
Conversions in thn te bi rep rvnn rc  sdon NP$, 5 US dollar.
Vice President Shahid Javed Burki
Director     Olivier Lafourcade (LAMXC)
Manager      Sri-Ram Aiyer (Director, LATDR- Team Leader)
IBRD team    Join Stein and Gloria Grandolini (LASLG  - Deputy Team  Leaders), Mike Lubrano
(LASLG), Tom Glaessner (EAICO), Richard Clifford (LAMIXI),; Zia Qureshi (LAMXC),
R. van Puymbroeck (LEGLA); Ross Levine (PRDFP); Donald Mclsaac (FSD), and
LUlpiano Ayala (Consultant). Jorge Serraino assisted in the processing of the report.
IDB team     Ezequiel Machado, Liliana Rojas, Stephen Weisbrod; Hans U. Schulz; Kim Staking;
Esperanza Lasagabaster.
Peer reviewers Estelle James (PRDPH). Dimitri Vittas (FSD), and Olivia Mitchell (outside peer reviewer
The Wharton School. Univ. of Pennsylvania).



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...........................                                        iii
I.  MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .1
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  .3
A.  The Current State of Mexico's Old Age Social Insurance
System and the Need for Reform                           .3
Background                                     .3
The Need for Reform                                 .5
B.   Old Age Insurance Reform: Timing, Objectives, and Principles of Reform      .6
Timing of the Reform                                .6
Objectives of the Reform                             .8
Principles of Reform                               .8
C.   The Key Features of the Reform and Comparison with Other Reforms           .8
Old Age and Severance Reforms                            .9
Disability and Life Insurance Reforms .12
Occupational Risk Insurance .12
Comparison with Other Reforms .12
D. Issues and Government Strategy .14
Pension System Reform .15
Complementary Financial Market Reforms .26
lII.  BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..............................                               29
A.   Overall Assistance Strategy ..............................                          29
B. IFC ..............................                                                    30
C.   Coordination with the IMF ..............................                            30
D.   Coordination with the IDB ..............................                            31
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN ..............................                                       31
A. Origin .31
B. Loan Size and Proposed Tranche Conditionality .31
C. Technical Assistance .33
D. Disbursements .33
E. Accounts and Audit .33
F. Monitoring and Reporting .33
G. Benefits and Risks .33
H. Environmental Impact .36
V. RECOMMENDATION .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
ANNEXES
I.    Government Letter of Sector Policy for Contractual Savings Development
II.    Matrix of Policy Actions
III.   Matrix of Technical Assistance Needs
IV.   Pension Reform and its Impact on the Development of Mexican Financial Markets
V.    Estimated Fiscal Costs of Pension Reform
VI.   Current Pension System
VII.  INFONAVIT
VIII. Economic Indicators
IX.   Balance of Payments
X.    External Capital and Debt
XI.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
XII.  Supplementary Data Sheet
XIII. Mexico at a Glance
Vice President  Shahid Javed Burki
Director      Olivier Lafourcade
Manager       Sri-Ram Aiyer (Director, LAT, Team Leader)
Staff Members  John Stein, Gloria Grandolini (LASLG - Deputy Team Leaders) and Mike Lubrano (LASLG)



MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PROPOSED LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
BORROWER:          Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, SNC (BANOBRAS).
GUARANTOR:    United Mexican States.
AMOUNT:            US$400 million
TERMS:             The loan is proposed to be a fixed rate single currency loan in US dollars,
with a maturity of up to fifteen years.
OBJECTIVES:    The proposed loan would support the first phase of the Government's
Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP), which is designed to:
(a) increase the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security
system and gradually lead to greater effective coverage; (b) establish a
financially viable pension system; (c) limit the fiscal impact of the current
pension system; (d) raise the level of institutional savings and improve the
allocative efficiency of domestic savings; and (e) enhance capital market
development by stimulating greater private financial intermediation.
DESCRIPTION:   The first phase of the reform focused on the establishment of the legal,
regulatory, and institutional framework for the reform of the country's old
age security system. The second phase will concentrate on the actual
implementation of the reformed pension system. Specifically, the first
phase of the CSDP supported by the proposed loan, included: (a)
introducing the legal and regulatory framework to establish the new
pension system and tc regulate and supervise pension fund administrators;
(b) designing and issuing the investment management regime; (c) assessing
fiscal transition costs; (d) initiating improvements in INFONAVIT's
performance; (e) individualizing accounts and strengthening IMSS capacity
to manage the operational scheme of the new pension system; and (f)
encouraging public confidence through education. In parallel, to ensure the
success of the pension reform and recognizing its linkages with the rest of
the financial sector, the Government implemented complementary financial
market reforms, aimed at: (a) deepening financial sector reforms through
continued bank restructuring; (b) modernizing the regulatory and
supervisory framework for mutual funds and voluntary pension plans; and
(c) deepening the insurance market for the provision of life and disability
coverage and annuities.
BENEFITS:          Overall, the program will lay the basis for a marked increase in the volume
of institutional savings and provide the institutional basis through which
domestic savings can be channeled to productive investment. It will also
lead to the creation of a new class of institutional investors and a new set
of longer-term instruments. Pension and social security reform will move



-iv-
the actuarially bankrupt defined-benefit system to a fully funded defined
contribution scheme. Public confidence will be strengthened as workers
will no longer view their contributions as a tax to provide benefits to
current pensioners; instead, they will view these contributions as a means
to build personal wealth. The separation of the pension and health sector
schemes will result in pressure for greater efficiency in the delivery of
public health benefits. Reforms in the insurance industry will create a
larger class of insurance products such as annuities, life and disability and
pre-paid medical insurance.   Reforms to improve Mexico's legal
framework for mutual funds, secured lending and asset backed securities
will deepen the capital market over time and broaden the base for
domestic savings. In addition, over the longer term, as pension funds
increase their equity fund investments, they will become major catalysts
for improved corporate governance.
RISKS:             The reform could lead to major fiscal risks if the savings generated from
defined wage contributions do not earn an adequate real rate of return.
These fiscal risks arise from the Government's continued guarantee of a
minimum pension benefit to everyone participating in the social security
system at the time of retirement. Without the housing fund component
earning a positive real rate of return, these risks are high. Given the legal
limitation on investment in foreign securities, the success of domestic
capital market reforms are also crucial to the success of the pension
reform especially because of the weakened state of the banking system,
which is currently the only major private source of financial assets. Low
real rates of return on the average pension fund's assets are also likely to
increase the moral hazard associated with providing a minimum pension
guarantee by encouraging contributor preference for high risk pension
investments.
To make success more likely, the Government gave itself a full year to
prepare for the transition to the new pension scheme and during this time
called on outside technical advisors to improve its supervisory institutions.
The risks of political pressures to reverse fiscal management policies will
always exist but are mitigated by both Mexico's growth potential over the
medium term and the significant amount of time remaining in the term of
the current administration which is strongly committed to these reforms.
On the banking side, specific programs are in place to increase the
capitalization of the banking system while the overall level of supervision
has improved markedly. All the above factors will be important for
improving the likelihood that pension funds will earn reasonable real rates
of return, thus reducing moral hazard concerns.
POVERTY
CATEGORY:           Not Applicable.
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT:  The proposed loan will be disbursed in a single tranche of US$400 million
upon loan effectiveness (February 1997).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO BANOBRAS WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
1.1   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pblicos, SNC (BANOBRAS) with the guarantee of
the United Mexican States, in the amount of US$400 million to support the first phase of the
Government's Contractual Savings Development Program which includes the establishment of the
legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for the reform of the country's old age security
system. The loan would be a fixed rate single currency loan in US dollars, with a maturity of up
to 15 years, and would be disbursed in a single tranche of US$400 million. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) is supporting the program with a Sector Adjustment Loan of US$300
million, which would be disbursed in two equal tranches.
I. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
1.2   This section provides a summary assessment of recent economic developments in Mexico
and of the economy's short to medium-term outlook. More details on key economic indicators,
information on the balance of payments and financing requirements are given in Annexes VIII, IX
and X. Further discussion of the economic outlook and country assistance strategy is provided in
the Mexico CAS that was issued to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1996.
1.3   Progress on Adjustment. Mexico has responded with a strong adjustment program to
deal with the financial crisis that erupted in December 1994. The Government's program has
comprised:  a substantial tightening of monetary and fiscal policies; a large exchange rate
adjustment through moving to a floating exchange rate regime; steps to deal with the severe
distress in the banking system; and initiation of further structural reforms--privatization,
deregulation.  The program includes measures to strengthen the social safety net.  The
Government's program has been supported by a large international financial package.
1.4   As a result of this effort, Mexico has achieved substantial progress in its adjustment
objectives. The current account improved from a deficit of about 8 percent of GDP in 1994 to
near balance in 1995, thanks to a 31 percent rise in exports (in dollar terms) fueled by the large
peso depreciation. Inflation has been reduced from a peak of 8 percent a month in April to an
average of around 1.5 percent in recent months. Helped by the external assistance package,
Mexico has rebuilt its depleted reserves, improved its external debt profile, and regained a
measure of access to international capital markets.
1.5   But the economy has also experienced a severe recession. GDP fell by 6.9 percent in
1995 and fixed domestic investment by about 30 percent. Also, while the progress on adjustment
has helped investor confidence to recover, it remains fragile, as underscored by a new bout of
financial market turbulence that emerged in the last quarter of 1995. The turbulence has since
subsided, but the continuing fragility of market sentiment remains an important source of
uncertainty for the short-term economic outlook.



2                                                                       PRESIDENT'SREPORT
1.6   Prospects. The central challenge that Mexico now faces is to foster a return to economic
growth while consolidating the gains in macroeconomic stability and restoration of investor
confidence. The current year represents an important period in that transition. An economic
recovery is now underway. But growth initially will be moderate, with GDP likely to rise by
about 3 percent in 1996. Much of this growth derives from the external sector based on the
strength of exports. Inflation is projected to fall to around 27 percent in 1996, from 52 percent in
1995, allowing a further moderation of interest rates from the high levels seen in 1995. Provided
Mexico perseveres with policies conducive to macroeconomic stability, and continues to deepen
and extend structural reforms, it can lay the basis for stronger growth in 1997 and subsequent
years.
1.7   If the competitive advantage conferred by the real depreciation of the peso is not allowed
to be eroded, Mexico can maintain the new dynamism of its exports, with average real growth in
exports of 9-10 percent annually. As growth recovers, so will imports, which contracted sharply
in 1995. The rise in imports will tend to widen the current account deficit, but if the projected
export growth is realized, the deficit should remain within limits consistent with a continued
improvement in Mexico's external debt position. For the next few years, the current account
deficit is likely to range from 1 to 2 percent of GDP. As investor confidence returns, private
capital flows are expected to recover, but this will be a gradual process. With the retirement of a
large part of its short-term debt in 1995, Mexico's external financing requirements will decline but
Mexico will face an increase in debt service during 1988-99 on account of repayments due under
the 1995 emergency financial assistance package. For a couple of years, before a fuller recovery
in private flows occurs, some quick-disbursing official assistance would remain desirable, to
support the reserve position as the current account deficit widens and the debt service remains
high and to allow a further improvement in the debt profile. Given Mexico's recent experience,
the still fragile state of investor confidence, and the economy's continuing vulnerability to a shift
in market sentiment, maintaining a strong reserve position will be particularly important.
1.8   The foregoing outlook is subject to two important risks: the weakness in the banking
system; and the vulnerability of the Government's macroeconomic program to social and political
pressures arising from  the deep recession.  The various bank support schemes that the
Government has put into operation have contained the scope of the banking system crisis. The
economic recovery and reduction in interest rates would further help in alleviating banking system
problems, and also help ease socio-political pressures. Nonetheless, the banking system remains
fragile, and the costs associated with the Government's bank support schemes will be a source of
pressure on the fiscal position over the next several years. An additional source of pressure on
the fiscal position will be the transitional fiscal costs of social security reform (para. 2.36-2.45).
The Government will need to continue to show firmness in resisting pressures for a premature
relaxation of policies.
1.9   Restoring stronger growth in the economy in the medium term will require a recovery in
investment from the plunge occurring in 1995. The bulk of the rise in investment will need to be
supported by an increase in domestic saving, if Mexico is to avoid a reemergence of unsustainably
large external deficits - an important underlying cause of the 1994 financial crisis. The rise in
Mexico's current account deficit prior to the crisis reflected a large drop in its saving rate.
Mexico's national saving rate fell from about 22 percent in the mid-1980s to 16 percent in 1994,
and is low by international standards (Table 1).



MErco - CoN TRAcTuAL S4vlNGsDEJEopmENT PRoGRAV                                      3
| Country/Region       91      92      93
|MEXICO                20.3    19.0    19.0
CHILE                 24.5    26.8    28.8
LACAVERAGE            19.0    20.0    20.1
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC  33.8    33.1    34.7
AVERAGE DEV. COUNTRIES
Middle Income Economies  26.7    25.6    24.2
WORLD                 22.5    21.9    21.6
LAC VRAGE           19.0    20.     2.
.A                                      2. ....  ...- =9 o
Source: The World Bank- World Tables 1995
1.10 Raising domestic saving and deploying them more efficiently will be a fundamental
condition for Mexico to attain strong and sustainable growth. Reforming the pension system and
developing the contractual savings industry is one of the most important changes the Government
can implement to promote domestic savings and develop the financial and capital markets to make
more effective use of these savings.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
2.1   The Government of Mexico has embarked on a major and important reform of the old age
security system which should prove beneficial both to individuals, through the opportunity to
obtain increased retirement income, and to Mexico's economic growth prospects over the
medium and long term. This reform will avoid the certain deleterious effects on public finances
that would have inevitably occurred if the current public, defined-benefit scheme had been left in
place.  It will also lead to greater private intermediation of domestic savings and to the
establishment of the institutions and instruments needed to absorb and allocate savings more
efficiently in the future.
2.2   Section II of this report summarizes the current state of Mexico's old age security system
and the need for reform of the contractual savings sector. It also describes the objectives and key
features of the Government's reform program, and analyzes the main issues to be tackled and the
Government's strategy for contractual savings development.
A. The Current State of Mexico's Old Age Social Insurance System
and the Need for Reform
Background
2.3    Mexico's old age security system consists of three pillars. The first pillar is a publicly
managed, pay-as-you-go (PAYG), defined-benefits plan. The second consists of individual
retirement accounts set up through the commercial banking system, with deposited funds
managed by the Central Bank. The third comprises voluntary occupational pension plans.
2.4   The First Pillar: Public PAYG Pension Plans. The Mexican social security system as it
evolved for almost fifty years through 1992 consists essentially of two elements of old age
support:



4                                                                     PRESIDN TSEPORT
retirement, pensioners' health benefits, and disability pensions' based on payroll
contributions of 8.5 percent of wages for formal private sector workers admninistered by
the Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social - IMSS) and
7 percent of wages for public sector workers administered by the Institute for Security and
Social Services for Government Workers (Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de
los Trabajadores del Estado - ISSSTE); and
*     additional retirement income from contributions to two specialized housing funds based on
an employer-paid contribution of 5 percent of wages for private sector employees
administered by the National Workers Housing Fund Institute (Instituto del Fondo
Nacional de la Vivienda de los Trabajadores - INFONAVIT) or 6 percent of wages for
public sector workers administered by the Government Workers Housing Fund (Fondo
para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE - FOVISSSTE).
2.5   IMSS also provides private sector workers with health care coverage under its own
hospital system based on a contribution of 12.5 percent of wages (9.5 percent of wages for public
workers in ISSSTE).
2.6   The Second Pillar: The 1992 Reform and the Introduction of Individual Retirement
Accounts (SAR). In a partial effort to address growing deficiencies in the pension system, the
Government introduced the Retirement Savings System (SAR) in May 1992 which consisted of
two sub-accounts:
*  a new mandatory 2 percent employer contribution to private and public sector employees
channeled into individual retirement sub-accounts. These funds are collected by employers
and channeled to the Central Bank through the commercial banking system. The Central
Bank guarantees a real rate of return of 2 percent on these retirement sub-accounts which by
end-1995 totaled NP$22.3 billion. Account registrations have become highly concentrated in
the commercial banking system with the two largest banks (BANAMEX and BANCOMNER)
handling more than seventy five percent of the total; and
*  a specialized housing sub-account managed by INFONAVIT. Although the contribution
remained at 5 percent of wages,  INFONAVIT's benefit provision was changed to
accumulated balances (i.e., accumulated contributions plus a real return on these) as opposed
to only nominal accumulated contributions.
2.7   The Third Pillar: Voluntary Occupational Pension Plans.  By domestic financial
market standards, voluntary occupational plans are quite large (about US$8 billion in total assets
or 5 percent of GDP as of 1993) and cover about 20 percent of Mexico's labor force. While
there are as many as 8,000 such voluntary plans, most of these funds are concentrated in 30 to 35
enterprises - foreign multinationals and the large parastatals - and combine a severance payment
obligation (defined under Labor Law Article 165 as 90 days of minimum daily salary for each
year of service) with either defined-benefit or defined-contribution schemes.
Referred to in this report as IVCM (Invalidez, Vejez, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Muerte), the Spanish
acronym for disability, old age, severance, and life insurance.



MEaco - CoNTRAcTuAL SAVINGS DE-ELoPMENTPROGRAM                                         5
The Needfor Reform
2.8    The Zedillo administration has recognized that Mexico's current contractual savings
system suffers from several weaknesses. These have significant economic consequences that limit
the viability of the social insurance system, impede development of the country's financial sector,
and limit prospects for sustainable economic growth. The three key weaknesses are:
*  Severe Financial Disequilibrium.  Based on various measurement methods, the overall
financial condition of the pension system to private sector workers provided by IMSS
(representing about 80 percent of the total working population) will increasingly place a
serious strain on public finances. In addition to IMSS' growing actuarial deficits - due in part
to the rapidly increasing dependency ratio, as shown in Table 2 below, - the commingling of
funds within IMSS for the different coverages which it provides has permitted the pension
system's surpluses to be used to meet cash deficits in certain IMSS insurance programs, most
notably health. According to Government calculations, IMSS' actuarial deficit (141 percent
of 1994 GDP) is expected to result in a cash deficit by the year 2007, requiring either a
trebling of contributions or an increase in Government contributions amounting to I percent
of GDP in the year 2000 and 3.75 percent of GDP in the year 2030.
*  Low Population Coverage. The IMSS-managed retirement and disability system (IVCM)
covers about 10 million contributors. Other publicly provided pension schemes cover 1.5
million public sector workers in ISSSTE, about 0.5 million workers in the state-owned
petroleum company (Petr6leos Mexicanos - PEMEX), and 0.3 million military personnel,
resulting in coverage of about 40 percent of Mexico's active labor force. The remaining 4.5
million self-employed workers, mostly agricultural, and 9.8 million underemployed or
unemployed workers are not covered by the formal social security system.
Table 2
Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS) Pension Actuarial Balances as of 12/31/94
1994 NP$1000 million
ASET                                      LIABILIT:S.... ............
::    ::~~~~~S                  :.--:--.-: .   -.... .. ....   J W .
: 9  ^ .  ....    fi   -  .- .- - -. - . -  . . ..  . ..... . ..... . .   . .. . .   .   ......... .   . ..
Reserves                 3.25       Present value of old
pensions                         96.93
Present value of future       683.67        Present value of future         2390.61
contributions                               liabilities
Actual affiliates  179.74                     This generation  1017.40
Future generations  503.93                    Future generations  1373.21
TOTAL ASSETS           683.92          TOTAL LIABILITIES             2487.54
DEFICIT               1800.62  (141.5 % of GDP)
Source: IMSS and Bank staff estimates.
Figure 1 below shows the estimated trends of contributions and pensions of the current
IVCM system without reform as Mexico's demographic structure moves towards that of the
developed countries (see para. 2.9).



6                                                                        PREsIDEN TSREPORT
NS2,500,000 -                      -- -
N$2,000,000
N$1,500,000
.... Pensions
N$1,000,000 3  XX                        -X- Contributions
NS500,000-
....     N  v~    00    -  N  0     O+    I .. .
.  O|  0 0  0x  -  - -  N m N  N  m  m m
MS  -  -l _N_  _   N   Ns  N es N  N  N N N  N  N NCe 
High Evasion. Evasion has been associated with two main factors: high inflation and short
vesting periods. Past high inflation has reduced the real value of pensions. In most cases, this
has reduced pensions to the guaranteed minimum benefit, which is equivalent to the minimum
wage. In addition, given the short time period in which a worker becomes vested (10 years),
nearly 80 percent of IMSS pensioners currently receive the guaranteed minimum wage
benefit. Not surprisingly, workers have perceived the pension scheme as a payroll tax. This
situation has created strong incentives for both employers and employees to avoid affiliation
and under-report earnings to qualify, and over-report them to receive benefits. It has also
acted as a deterrent to attract informal sector workers, who comprise mainly the poor.
Without broader participation in the reformed pension system, extreme poverty in old age will
be an increasing burden on society.
B.    Old Age Insurance Reform: Timing, Objectives, and Principles of Reform
Timing of the Reform
2.9    Across a wide range of countries, both developed and developing, old age security
systems are faltering primarily because current revenues are being used to pay for an ever-
growing proportion of an aging population. Mexico, like many developing countries has the
distinct advantage of initiating reform at a time when its demographic profile is relatively young,
making reform more affordable. The timing of the Mexican reform is particularly advantageous
given the following four demographic trends (Figure 2):
* the majority of the Mexican population is still young - in 1990 only 6.4 percent of the
population was above 65 (Figure 2a);



MExco - CONT2AC7UAL SAVINGS DEvELOPMENTPROGRAM                                                                       7
*   rapid growth in aging as a result of lower fertility rates and  improvements in life expectancy
(Figure 2b) which will result in 10.4 percent of the population above 65 years of age by 2020;
*   a sharp increase in the dependency ratio: in 1960 there were four pensioners per one hundred
contributors, by 1994 this ratio increased to 12.5 per one hundred pensioners (Figure 2c); and
*   Mexico's current demographic structure limits the fiscal costs of pension reform.  In  1994
almost 50 percent of IMSS contributors were between 15 and 30 years old, while the peak of
the average wage distribution is reached at around age 40 (Figure 2d); this implies that wages
for the 15 to 30 year old population will increase in time enabling them to acquire a pension
higher than the minimum.
Age                                                      Age                                    Rate per 1000
72                                                  7
81 85
70                                                  6
.   -7 5                                          _                                              ! r.....
71                                                                                             ....5..
6165 -1990                                               68
66
.:0gX   1990   2000   2010   2020   203 190                                                           4 : 1    5 3  5 5  5 7  51:::
64~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
41 45                                                    623
31 35                                                    20
21 25                                                    58                                                    1
:.:   S1:.:::.:.:11:.:.:.56
1970    1975    1980    1985    1990    1993
0%   2%  4%   6%  8%  10%  12%  14%  16%  18%/                    ieEpcac          FriiyRt
-- -Mortality Rate                            U
160000                                 -- -16                ~D ttw    14
140000 --14                                              4-.
~120000 --12=,
3.5
8.10000                                      8.15 0
8 0000   7                                  8 
~~~~40000   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4 *                                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.51
X   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~.
20000                                      2
0 5                                         0.5
0                         0            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0                         0.0
1990   2000   2010   2020   230                     15  25   35   45   55   65   75   85
Total Population         Pop:ulation Over6
~Elderly Dependency Ratio                                     -     Wage      IMSS Distribution



8                                                                      PRESIDENT'SREPORT
Objectives of the Reform
2.10  The reform  of contractual savings and the complementary development of financial
markets are two of the key goals contained in the Government's National Development Plan for
1995-2000. The Government's strategy aims at:
*  increasing the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security system and
gradually lead to greater effective coverage;
* establishing a financially viable pension system;
limiting the fiscal impact of the current pension system and ensure transparency of the
fiscal costs of transition;
*  enhancing financial market development and reducing volatility by stimulating greater
private financial intermediation and increasing the array of financial instruments and
contracts available; and
*  contributing to enhance the allocative efficiency of domestic and, in the longer-term,
to raising aggregate savings.
Principles of Reform
2.11   There are a number of important principles that must be embraced if a sound old age
security system is to be put into place. Mexico, like several other Latin American countries, has
taken up the challenge of moving towards a multi-pillar, fully funded, defined-contribution old age
security system. In addition to ensuring an enabling macroeconomic environment, the key issues
it will face are:
* introducing the regulatory and supervisory framework to protect the pension rights of
participants in the mandatory system;
c  recognizing, to the fullest extent possible, the fiscal costs of transition and identifying
financing sources to turn its implicit social security debt into an explicit debt;
*  reforming the public pillar by shifting to individual retirement accounts and to
private management of pension funds. Meeting these requirements entails reforming
IMSS, ensuring real rates of return from the INFONAVIT sub-account, and
developing the disability and life insurance market;
*  setting up the regulatory and institutional framework for personal savings and
occupationalpension plans, providing additional protection on a voluntary basis;
*  building public support and confidence in the new pension system so as to attract
informal workers and avoid evasion; and
*  implementing parallel financial sector reforms to ensure an adequate supply of
quality financial assets available for pension fund investment.
2.12  To achieve these objectives, the Government has embarked upon a series of major policy
initiatives that have been grouped together under the broad title of "Mexico - Contractual Savings
Development Program (CSDP)."
C.    The Key Features of the Reform and Comparison with Other Reforms
2.13  In December 1995 the Mexican Congress approved legislation (the new Social Security
Law - Ley del Seguro Social) to reform the existing social security system to restructure the



MA&co - CONT.ACTUALSAyNMSDEvLOPMENTPRoGRAm                                                  9
pension system for workers in the formal private sector from the PAYG, defined-benefit system to
a privately managed, defined-contribution system. Modeled on the system in place in Chile, the
reformed pension system: eliminates the old PAYG scheme; provides current IMSS affiliates with
a choice at retirement between the benefits under the old system or their accumulated balances
under the new system; and provides a government-guaranteed minimum pension equal to the
indexed minimum wage for those low-income workers whose savings are insufficient to provide a
post retirement income at that level. A second legislative package on the implementation of the
reforms (the Pension Systems Law - Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro) was approved
by Congress in April 1996.
2.14   The current IVCM system for private sector employees (para. 2.4) is separated under the
reform into Old Age and Severance (RCV - Seguro de Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y
Vejez) and Disability and Life Insurance (IV - Seguro de Invalidez y Vida), including provision of
health benefits to pensioners. Annex VI provides a more detailed discussion of the existing IVCM
system. Due to political constraints, the current reform did not contemplate changes to the
ISSSTE, PEMEX, other parastatals, armed forces, and the state pension plans. Hence, the
portability constraint across private and public sector workers' pension plans will remain for now
an issue along with the financial disequilibrium to be faced in the future by these pension funds.
However, the introduction of the defined contribution scheme for private sector employees, if
successful, is likely to push all the unfunded state employee pension plans in the same direction.
The reform is scheduled to be initiated on January 1, 1997, although the administration of pension
funds by private managers will not become fully operational until mid-19972. The main legislative
and administrative elements of the reform are described in the following sections. Table 3
summarizes the main differences between the old IVCM system and the new reformed system
Old Age and Severance Reforms
2.15   The backbone of the new  fully-funded pension system  is constituted by individual
retirement funds (SIEFORES - Sociedades de Inversi6n Especializadas en Fondos para el
Retiro). The SIEFORES will be managed by investment management firms (AFORES -
Administradores de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro) to be established by the private sector
(domestic and foreign), IMSS, and trade unions. In addition to the option for IMSS to establish a
single AFORE, it will continue to have a role as: (i) the legal enforcer of all contribution
collections; (ii) the provider of benefits to all existing pensioners; (iii) the entity responsible for
delivering benefits to those transition workers choosing the old PAYG system at retirement; and
(iv) the provider of the minimum pension guarantee to all private sector workers.
2.16   Coverage and eligibility. Contributions to the new system will be compulsory for all
private sector workers beginning on January 1, 1997. The retirement age remains at 65 years.
2 On October 28, 1996 the Mexican authorities presented draft legislation to Congress to delay the implementation
of the social security reform from January 1, 1997 to July 1, 1997. Nevertheless, even though contributions to
the SIEFOREs will begin on July 1, 1997, workers' affiliation will proceed as planned, beginning on January 1,
1997. AFOREs are expected to be already authorized and operating by then. The reform was postponed for two
main reasons: (a) the GoveTnment was not fully ready with the unique identification system, which is essential to
avoid evasion, ghosting etc; and (b) the Govermnent was not ready with systems for collection of contributions
by IMSS and their transfer to the AFORES. The Mexican authorities decided that prior to the actual initiation of
the reform it was necessary to install a more powerful system for individualization of accounts and to move
towards a centralized and more reliable and accountable computer-oriented scheme for the payment of
contributions. In terms of account individualization, it was decided to add to the IMSS number and the fiscal
identification number (RFC) a more reliable identification number entitled Clave Unica de Registro de
Poblacion (CURP). These actions will improve the overall design of the system.



|0                                                                    PRESIDENT SREPORT
The years of contributions required for eligibility for the minimum pension guarantee (MPG) are
raised from 10 to 25 years, defined as 12503 weeks.
2.17  Contributions.  Beginning on January 1, 1997, each worker's individual retirement
account will be composed of two compulsory sub-accounts, the RCV retirement sub-account
managed by the AFORES, and the INFONAVIT sub-account. Workers can also open a third
sub-account for voluntary contributions. Workers' contributions will be automatically passed on
to the designated AFORES.
2.18 Under the reform, contributions to old age and severance in the AFORES' individual
accounts will equal 6.5 percent of a worker's wage (the current 4.5 percent for old age and
severance plus the current 2 percent contribution in the retirement sub-account in the Central
Bank) and a Government contribution of NP$ 1 per day, known as the social quota (see Table 3).
The social quota will equal between I and 5.5 percent of the worker's wage depending on the
level of each workers' wage and will be indexed to the December 31, 1996 CPI. On average it
will be equivalent to 2.2 percent of wages. It will be transferred to each worker's account to
which active contributions are being made. Transition workers have the right to transfer their
past retirement sub-account contributions (para. 2.6) made to the Central Bank between 1993 and
1996 into their new AFORES accounts. Contributions to the INFONAVIT sub-account, equal to
5 percent of a worker's salary, will continue to be invested in INFONAVIT housing. Total
contributions for retirement, therefore, amount to between 12.5 and 17 percent of a worker's
wage.
2.19  Benefits. Benefits under the new system fall into two groups: benefits to new workers
and benefits to transition workers. New workers are defined as those beginning their contributions
to the system after January 1, 1997. The first cohort of retirees fully under the new system is
expected in approximately 25 years. Benefits will consist of the accumulated balances in their
individual retirement accounts (AFORES plus INFONAVIT accounts) or the MPG under the new
system. The MPG will be equal to the minimum wage in Mexico City as of December 31, 1996,
indexed to the Consumer Price Index (CPI). At retirement, workers will choose between a
gradual withdrawal option or buying an annuity from an insurance company.
2.20   Transition workers are defined as those currently contributing to the PAYG system.
Although these workers will begin contributing to their new individual retirement accounts after
January 1, 1997, they will retain the right to the benefits of the old system. A lifetime switch
option allows transition generation workers to choose at retirement the higher of the acquired
benefits under the current system and the accumulated balances in their individual retirement
accounts under the new system. More specifically, transition workers' benefits under the old
system would be: (i) benefits accrued under PAYG system equal to a percentage of the average of
their last five years nominal wage or an MPG equal to the minimum wage in effect at the time of
retirement, indexed to changes in the minimum wage; (ii) accumulated balances in the
INFONAVIT sub-account (from 5/1992 onwards); and (iii) accumulated 5/1992-96 balances in
the retirement sub-account (para. 2.6). These benefits would be compared to the accumulated
balances in their individual retirement accounts (AFORES plus INFONAVIT accounts) plus
accumulated 5/1992-96 balances in the retirement sub-account (Table 3).
3 One contribution week equals 7 contributing days.



MExco - CONTPACTuAL SA vNGS DEwPoMENTPROGRAm                                                                           11
Table 3: Mexico - Comparison  of Current and Reformed Old Age Security Systems
OldAge and Severance (RCV)                 IMSS                                           *   Contributions to chosen pension fund
administrator (AFORE)
l   Benefits provided by AFORES if new
system, or IMSS if old PAYG system
............................................................ chosen   at retirem ent
....   ........................   ......................................................  .............................. ................................................................................................... .chsna e
Disability and Life Insurance (IV)         1MSS                                           iMSS
... CONTRWUI'JONS ,% ~*w)~                                     15.5                                        163-21.0............  is.............  I6.S - 2L0
Old age and severance (RC')                                                                    12.5 - 170  (= L5 + NPSI per day)
dli..f  lrI#fff                                                                                       4.0
Di~~~~~~~~~~ ........................i.,.f,,...  ................................................   ...........
Detailed breakdown:                        IVCM (to IMSS):                         8.5    RCV Individual Accounts:
Old age and severance           3.0        to AFORES:                        6.5b+NP$1
Disability and death             3.0         Old age and severance            4.5
Reserves for pensioners' health   1.5        Retirement sub-account           2.0
Administration expenses          0.6          Social quota (per day)       NP$1I
Social Assistance               0.4        to INFONAVIT:                            5.0
SAR-Retirement (to Central Bank):    2.0  IV  to IMSS:                                 4.0
SAR Housing (to 1NFONAVIT):             5.0     Disability and life              2.5
Reserves for pensioners' health  1.5
["C.'.Fw_'.'2' Er%ThILW                                                                  l
OldAge (minimum pension)                   500 weeks (10 years) and 65 years old          1,250 weeks (25 years) and 65 years old
Severance                                 150 weeks, inability to earn 50% of salary     250 weeks
Disability Insurance                        150 weeks                                     250 weeks
Life Insurance
. . . ... .-.  .......   -.............    ' "'"''..l
Old Age: Amount of pension                 (i) benefits accrued under PAYG system         New workers: accumulated balances in
(a % of the average wage of last 5 years in   individual accounts (AFORES + INFONAV1T)
nominal terms plus a fraction for each year in   since 1/1/1997;
excess of 10, with a maximum of 10 minimum   Transition workers: at retirement choose
wages - Art. 167 old Social Security Law) +    highest between: (i) current benefits (see
(ii) accumulated INFONAVIT contributions       previous column) and (ii) accumulated
(iii) retirement sub-account balances 5/92-96    balances in individual accounts (AFORES +
11lNFONAVIT) since 1/1/1997 + retirement
sub-account accumulated balances 5/92-96 (if
...............................   ...........I................................................  ................................. |   ....................................
Old Age: Withdrawals d                                                                    . *   Gradual withdrawals from individual
account; e or
*   Annuity bought from an insurance
_     company
Disability Insurance                       50% of the average wage during last 150         35% of average wage for the last 500 weeks
weeks of contribution                          of contributions
...................   ................................................................   ................ ............................................  ..............................  ................. ...............................................
Life Insurance                             Widow: 90% of disability pensiow,              Same as before
Dependents: 20% of disability pension, or
30% if both parents deceased                H
Minimum  Pension Guarantee (MPG)           Equivalent to one Mexico City minimum          Equivalent to one Mexico City minimum wage
wage level indexed to actual minimum wage   I on 12/31/96 indexed to the CPI f
a. Under IVCM, contributions could not exceed 10 times the minimum wage and under the new system it is 25 times.
b. Plus the accumulated balances in the retirement sub-account (from 1993 to 1996) if the worker so wishes.
c. Government contribution of NP$1 per day is indexed to the consumer price level and estimated to be between I and 5.5 percent
depending on worker's income. The maximum of 5.5 percent is for workers earning I minimum wage and the average is about
2.2 percent of wages.
d. Lump withdrawal at retirement permitted only for balances in excess of 130 percent of MPG.
e. Workers taking gradual withdrawals must take out annuity insurance to cover probability that they live longer than expected and
outlast savings.
f. Currently average wage for IMSS affiliates is 2.6 minimum wages, thus MPG is approximately 38 percent of average wage.



12                                                                    PRESIDENT'SREPORT
2.21   The MPG, to both transition and new workers, is provided by the Government in the
event that the value of the worker's accumulated savings in all retirement accounts is inadequate
to provide for the minimum pension. The Government contribution will only be equal to the
difference between the MPG and funds available in the individual retirement accounts. For
transition workers opting for benefits under the old IVCM system, IMSS will pay benefits first
from the worker's accumulated balances in the individual retirement account, and when these
funds are exhausted, from Government resources.
Disability and Life Insurance Reforms.
2.22  The reform separates disability and life insurance coverages from the other lines of
insurance which IMSS continues to manage. As a result, funds can no longer be commingled.
Total contributions for disability and life insurance are 4 percent of wages since they include 1.5
percent for reserves for pensioners' health expenses. Eligibility requirements were increased from
150 weeks to 250 weeks and disability pensions were reduced from 50 percent of the average
wage in the last 150 weeks to 35 percent of average wage for the last 500 weeks. IMSS will
retain responsibility over the management of this line of insurance, but private insurance
companies will provide benefits through annuities.
Occupational Risk Insurance
2.23   Occupational risk insurance will also be separated from other lines of insurance which
IMSS continues to manage. Premiums will become firm-specific in contrast to the current system
where specific premiums are established for each economic sector. Hence, the reform will create
greater incentives for firms to reduce work-related injuries and should result in a decline in the
average work-related risk insurance premium. Benefits under this line of insurance, however,
remain largely unchanged with the reform. For permanent disability injuries, pension benefits
equivalent to 70 percent of the average wage of the last 5 years will continue to be provided. As
in the case of life and disability insurance, private insurance companies will provide benefits
through annuities.
Comparison with Other Reforms
2.24 Table 4 below summarizes key comparisons between Mexico and three other countries in
the region that have recently carried out pension reform. The reforms being carried out in
Mexico, while broadly similar to those adopted in other Latin American countries, differ in several
significant ways:
*  Eligibility requirements. The number of years of contributions to be eligible for the benefits
of the new system are higher for Mexico (at 25 years) than in other recent reforms. In
addition, Mexico has defined a week as equal to seven working days, which, in practice,
extends the eligibility period. This high eligibility requirement reduces both the risk of evasion
and the need for the Government minimum pension guarantee.
*  Demise of contributions to PAYG system and lifetime switch option. Unlike the new pension
systems in Chile, Argentina and Colombia, the option to continue to contribute to a PAYG
old age and severance insurance plan has been completely eliminated under the new Mexican
system, even for transition workers. New workers, as in the case of Chile, will be totally
integrated in the new system. Transition workers will have a choice on the benefit side at the
time of retirement, but not on the contribution side. Thus, a larger volume of funds will be
intermediated by the private sector than in the case of these other reforms. This is also an



MAxCO - CONMTACTUL SAVJNGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAW                                                                         13
TABLE 4. PENSION REFORMS IN LATIN AMERICA
.. e ,.M - -- -,, ,, ..~~~~~~~~....                        . - l- ,:.  .   M . . 
~~~~~. g' .,.. ..   - ........       .. ..... ..  a*   . .
Nature of the reform                    Public defined        Public split into    Public PAYG    Public defined benefit
benefit (PAYG)       public PAYG and       changed to       changed to private
changed to private    private defined    choice between    defined contribution
defined                contribution       public PAYG       (for private sector
contribution (all                          and private        workers only)
workers)                                     defined
contribution
Transition arrangements                     Phased out         Continues with    Continues with         Eliminated'
What happens to old system?                                       changes            changes
Is current labor force allowed to remain       Yes                  Yes                Yes                  Noa
in old scheme?                            _                                    _
Is new system mandatory for new labor          Yes                  No                 No                   Yes
force entrants?
Can workers switch back to public               No                  No              Yes, every              Noa
system after entering AFP?                                                         three years.
Recognition bonds                              Yes                  Yesb               Yes'                 Nod
Profile of new pension scheme What role  Minimum pension   Flat and minimum         Minimum              Minimum
for public pillar?                           guarantee            pension            pension         pension guarantee
Social assistance                         guarantee         Social assistance
Social
_   assistance
Total contribution rate for new system:
available for old age annuity                 10                  8                   10            6.5 + 5.0 + 2.2'
disability/survivorsladministrative           3                   3                    3.5              4.0
public pillar and social assistance  _General revenues            16                   I             General revenues
Total contribution rate:
before reform              19                   27                  8                 15.5
after reform               13                   27              13.5-14.5g       16.5 - 21.0
Maximum percentage of portfolio
allowed in:
Domestic equities                        30                   50            to be decided     0
Foreign securities                       10                   10            to be decided     0
Governnent bonds in 1994                 45                   50                 50           100 (in 1997)
a. Contributions to the old system cease on December 31, 1996. Transition workers can choose at retirement the higher of the benefits
available under the old PAYG scheme or the new defined contribution plan.
b. "Compensatory pension" is paid upon retirement, not as a bond. The value is based on years of contribution and last ten years' eamings.
c. Workers with fewer than 15 0 weeks of contributions are not eligible for a recognition bond.
d. Disclosure of expected current and fuiture fiscal costs would be made on an annual basis.
e. This is paid by the employer.
f. Government contribution ofNPS 1 per day is indexed to the consumer price level and estimated to be between I and 5.5 percent
depending on worker's income and on average equivalent to 2.2 percent of wages.
g. The rate shown is for 1996 and following years. The contribution rate will increase gradually between 1994 and 1996.
Source: "Averting the Old Age Crisis" World Bank, 1994 (page 277) and World Bank intemal documents.
improvement over the Colombian reform which allows continuous switching by new entrants
between the two systems (every three years), raising administrative costs and increasing
volatility in the privately-managed funds.
Alternative to issuance of recognition bonds and implications for fiscal costs of transition.
Mexico's pension reform also differs in that the Government will not issue recognition bonds
(as in Chile) or compensatory pensions (as in Argentina) to explicitly value current workers'



14                                                                    PRESIDENT 'SREPORT
past pension contributions. The Mexican Government could not issue recognition bonds or
compensatory pensions because of the legal treatment of acquired rights. These acquired
rights make it difficult to explicitly attach a value to a worker's acquired benefits under the old
PAYG system up until the time of the reform. On the fiscal side, the Mexican plan is more
risky because the Government's liability is uncertain. However, the Government's
contribution of NP$1 per day partially recognizes the Government's potential liability. In
addition, the magnitude of the fiscal obligation will depend on the real return on transition
workers' post 1997 contributions.  Its potential advantage is that it does not lock the
Government into fixed fiscal costs.  Should real returns be higher than expected, more
transition workers will take their benefits under the new program, thereby reducing fiscal
costs.
In terms of choice to transition workers, Mexico's scheme offers an improvement over the
Chilean system. In Chile, transition workers were asked to choose at the start whether to stay
with the old system or accept a recognition bond and join the new system. Given that the
system was new and the uncertainty of future returns, this was a difficult, if not an arbitrary
choice to make. In the Mexico scheme, workers can compare the benefits of the two systems
at retirement and choose the higher of the two.
Moral hazard risks associated with the incentive for workers and AFORES to invest in high
risk securities and to evade contributions given the expectation to retire with the old PAYG
benefits are mitigated by two factors: (i) the majority of transition workers (65 percent) are
under 32 years of age; and (b) workers will have their own individual retirement accounts as
opposed to a hypothetical Government guarantee.
M Minimum Pension Guarantee. In terms of the minimum pension guarantee, it is lower in
Mexico than the other countries, equivalent at present to approximately 40 percent of average
wage, a figure which is expected to decline to 25 percent of the average wage by the time the
first cohort of new workers retires (about 2025) as real wages increase. Taking advantage of
a historically low minimum wage in real terms and favorable demographics, Mexico's
potential fiscal costs are likely to be significantly lower than those of other reforms in the
region. In addition, from the incentive point of view, the lower the guarantee the less relevant
it becomes and the greater the incentive workers and AFORES will have to earn a high rate of
return.
2.25   The Mexican reform follows the Chilean model as well as adds some innovative elements.
Like in Chile, all vestiges of the old PAYG system will disappear with the last cohort of transition
workers around 2025. The authorities have worked closely with Chilean counterparts as well as
authorities of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission since the AFORE systems builds on
Chile's AFP experience and on the US mutual fund experience. The success of the reform and the
minimization of fiscal costs will depend on careful implementation and strong supervision. The
Government has allowed itself until the beginning of 1997 to put in place the necessary
institutional infrastructure. Moreover, the Government will strengthen the role of the regulatory
body both through new legislative and regulatory powers and through cooperative exchanges with
Chile and the U.S.
D. Issues and Government Strategy
2.26  Contractual savings reform in Mexico provides the first real opportunity to shift the old
PAYG pension system to a fully-funded, defined-contribution model and expand and deepen



Kffxzco - CONTRACTUAL SA vwGGSDEvELOPmENTPROGRAM                                  15
domestic capital markets. Such reform encompasses both pension reform and complementary
financial market actions. To achieve the objectives of the reform (para. 2.10), the Government
needs to carry out a number of important actions, including: (a) designing and implementing the
legal framework to regulate pension fund administrators and strengthening the monitoring and
enforcement of the new scheme; (b) establishing and enforcing an adequate investment
management regime; (c) evaluating and ensuring the funding of the fiscal transition costs; (d)
improving the financial performance of the INFONAVIT-managed housing fund; (e)
strengthening the IMSS in its ability to manage account individualization, the enforcement of
billing and collection, and the provision of benefits; and (t) encouraging public confidence through
education. In parallel, the Government will implement complementary financial market reforms to
facilitate the continued development of the privately-managed pension system. To ensure the
success of the pension reform, the Government will carry out these actions in two phases. The
first phase focused on the establishment of the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for
the reform of the country's old age security system. The second phase will concentrate on the
actual implementation of the reformed pension system.
2.27  Specifically, the first phase of the CSDP program, supported by the proposed loan,
included: (a) introducing the legal and regulatory framework to establish the new pension system
and to regulate and supervise pension fund administrators; (b) designing and issuing the
investment management regime; (c) assessing fiscal transition costs; (d) improving the financial
performance of INFONAVIT; (e) individualizing accounts and strengthening IMSS capacity to
manage the operational scheme of the new pension system; and (f) encouraging public confidence
through education. In parallel, the Government implemented complementary financial market
reforms, aimed at: (a) deepening financial sector reforms through continued bank restructuring;
(b) modernizing the regulatory and supervisory framework for mutual funds and voluntary
pension plans; and (c) deepening the insurance market for the provision of life and disability
coverage and annuities. The main issues raised by each of these actions and the Government's
response are described below.
Pension System Reform
(a)   Legal, Regulatory, and Supervisory Framework for Fund Administration
2.28  In December 1995, a new Social Security Law (Ley del Seguro Social) was enacted,
modifying the current public pay-as-you-go, defined benefits scheme to establish a privately
managed, mandatory, defined contributions scheme permitting private management [para. 4.5
(a)].  The new Social Security Law provided that the regulatory and supervisory regime
governing the revised pension system would be the subject of subsequent detailed legislation. The
Pension Systems Law (Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro) approved by Congress on
April 26, 1996 [para. 4.5 (b)] sets out the structure and powers of CONSAR and provides
guiding principles for the establishment, operation and supervision of pension fund administrators
(AFOREs) and specialized mutual funds for pensions (SIEFOREs). It also sets out more detailed
rules governing conflicts of interest, market share limits, officer and director responsibility and
investor protection. Since September 1996, CONSAR has finalized draft regulations covering
authorization and capitalization of AFOREs and SIEFOREs, portfolio valuation, commissions and
fees charged by AFOREs and promotion and marketing of AFOREs and SIEFOREs to the public
[para. 4.5 (b)].  The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit has finalized rules governing the
establishment of AFOREs controlled by foreign financial institutions [para. 4.5 (b)]. After
discussions with Bank staff, CONSAR has also prepared draft rules governing the investment



16                                                                  PRESIDENT'SREPORT
regime for SIEFOREs. These drafts are acceptable and are expected to be issued in final form in
October/November 1996 [para. 4.6 (a) and (b)].
2.29 The Pension Systems Law pointedly did not adopt the governance and supervisory
framework applicable to Mexico's mutual fund industry. Legislators and the administration felt
since a handful of financial groups control the bulk of the Mexican banking, securities and mutual
funds industries, the legal/regulatory framework for a mandatory contribution system should
impose stricter rules for independent decision-making and avoidance of conflicts of interest. A
strong CONSAR with ample authority and human and other resources necessary to supervise and
enforce compliance was also essential.
2.30  The law and regulations address these key areas of concern for regulation and supervision
of AFOREs and SIEFOREs in the following manner:
Nature and Control of AFOREs. Chapter III, Section II of the Pension Systems Law sets
out the basic rules for ownership, organization, authorization, capital structure and corporate
governance of AFOREs.
AFOREs will be single-purpose business corporations with independent capitalization.
CONSAR regulations require each AFORE to maintain a minimum paid-in capital of N$25
million and a special reserve (as required by Article 28 of the Pension Systems Law) equal to
the greater of $25 million or 1% of the total assets of SIEFOREs under management. The
paid in capital and special reserve are required to be invested in shares of the SIEFOREs
managed by the AFORE.
The capital of an AFORE that is a subsidiary of a financial group will not be available to meet
the obligations of other subsidiaries of the group. As an additional safeguard, Article 22 of
the Pension Systems Law provides that financial intermediaries (including banks) or financial
groups that are not in full compliance with applicable capital standards may not be
shareholders of an AFORE.
The establishment of AFOREs requires the authorization of CONSAR, which may grant or
deny authorization in its own discretion after examining the business plan, shareholding,
systems, control and management of the firm. Article 54 of the Pension Systems Law
empowers CONSAR to revoke the authorization of an AFORE or SIEFORE that fails to meet
the standards set forth in law and regulations. CONSAR regulations require sponsors to
provide it with detailed information about the business plan, management, source of capital
and controlling shareholders. Under the Pension Systems Law, a shareholder that at any time
wishes to acquire more than 10% of the capital stock of an AFORE is required to make
detailed financial disclosures to the CONSAR revealing their sources of capital for the
preceding five years.
Foreign Ownership. Article 21 of the Pension Systems Law provided that the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit may issue, in accordance with international agreements, regulations
permitting a class of AFOREs majority-controlled by foreign financial institutions (but not
individuals or industrial concerns). In accordance with this provision, the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit has issued a regulation permitting financial institutions from NAFTA



MExco - CONTRhACTuAL S4AVYGSDELELOPmENTPROGR4AM                                      17
countries,4 Colombia, Costa Rica and Venezuela to establish majority-owned AFOREs. Up to
49% of the shares of such foreign-owned AFOREs may be held by other foreign or Mexican
shareholders. Foreign-owned AFOREs will receive equal treatment with Mexican-owned
AFOREs, will compete head-to-head with them and will not be subject to the types of market
share limitations that Mexico enforces against foreign-owned banks and broker/dealers.
*  Commissions and fee structure. Article 37 of the Pension Systems Law permits AFOREs
to charge management fees based on a percentage of assets under management, the flow of
contributions, or a combination of both, in accordance with regulations issued by CONSAR.
Consistent with Article 37, CONSAR has issued regulations which authorize each AFORE to
freely set management fees based on a percentage of contributions (a front end fee), a
percentage of assets under management, or some combination of the two. In evaluating the
appropriateness of commission structures charged by the various AFOREs, regulators are
aware that, from the affiliate's point of view, the most important factor is rate of return net of
expenses. Accordingly, CONSAR will issue regulations requiring accurate disclosure of the
net rate of return.
*  Conflicts of Interest.  In recognition of the potential for abuse presented by Mexico's
interconnected and highly concentrated financial system, Chapter III, Section V of the Pension
Systems Law establishes strict limitations on permissible transactions between AFOREs and
affiliated financial institutions and issuers. CONSAR recognizes that given that a large
percentage of pension contributions may ultimately be managed by AFOREs which are
subsidiaries of financial groups and/or affiliated with other financial institutions, strict
supervision and enforcement of conflict of interest rules will be required to build public
confidence in the system.
The Pension Systems Law itself establishes that:
*  Employees, management and shareholders of an AFORE may not divulge or make
personal use of material non-public information.
.  Employees with responsibility for making and executing investment decisions for
AFOREs may not also serve as employees of an affiliated (or unaffiliated) financial
institution. Overlap of decision-making personnel between an AFORE and affiliated
financial institutions would dilute responsibility and in some cases create incentives to
make investment decision that are not in the interests of the AFORE's contributors.
*  SIEFOREs may not purchase securities in a primary offering if such securities are
issued by an affiliated financial or non-financial institution or underwritten by an
affiliated financial institution. SIEFOREs may not effect deposits with affiliated
financial institutions.
*  SIEFOREs may invest no more than 5%  of their assets in securities issued or
guaranteed by shareholders or those exercising management control.
4 U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries or branches of financial institutions from non-NAFTA countries are treated as
U.S. or Canadian institutions. Accordingly, European and Japanese financial institutions can gain access to the
Mexican market through their U.S. and Canadian Subsidiraries.



18                                                                             PRESIDENT'SREPORT
* All contracts between an AFORE and affiliated companies must be approved by the
compliance officer of the AFORE.
CONSAR is empowered to issue regulations further clarifying the conflict of interest rules and
establishing requirements for assuring continued compliance and supervision. The regulation
governing the investment regime establishes that a SIEFORE may invest no more than 5% of
its total assets in securities issued or guaranteed by entities that have a management or
shareholding nexus with the SIEFORE.
*  Market Share Limits. In order to encourage greater competition in the provision of pension
fund management, Article 26 of the Pension Systems Law sets a 20% limit on the system
assets that may be managed by any single AFORE5. The Consultative and Supervisory
Committee of the CONSAR is authorized to set a higher limit only if it determines that it will
not prejudice the interests of workers.  To assure that no AFORE  receives an unfair
competitive advantage, CONSAR intends to refrain from authorizing the first AFOREs until it
is able to grant simultaneous authorizations to a significant number of competitors.
*  Responsibility of Officers and Directors. The drafters of the Pensions Systems Law and
CONSAR have striven to establish clear rules of responsibility for directors and employees of
AFOREs. The Pension Systems Law provides that members of the board of directors, the
general director and the compliance officer of each AFORE must be approved by CONSAR
on the basis of the moral integrity and technical and management capacity of the nominees.6
Article 52 of the Pension Systems Law authorizes CONSAR to remove any director, officer,
compliance officer or other officer found to lack the moral integrity or technical or
management capacity required for such position.
*  Publicity and Marketing.  Article 53 of the Pension Systems Law  requires that all
advertising and marketing be conducted in accordance with regulations prescribed by
CONSAR. Article 47 requires that SlEFOREs distribute prospectuses that fairly describe
their portfolio and investment policies. All such prospectuses must be reviewed and approved
by CONSAR. CONSAR has issued initial regulations covering promotion and marketing of
AFOREs and SIEFOREs and is expected to issue more detailed guidelines on the required
contents and presentation of prospectuses as practice in this area develops.
5 In addition, Transitory Article seventeen of the pension Systems law provides that for the first four years of
operations of the new system, the maximum market share permitted each AFORE will be only 17%.
6 To avoid dilution of responsibility, Article 49 of the Pension Systems Law provides that the members of an
AFORE's board of directors must also serve on the boards of each of the SIEFOREs managed by such AFORE.
These directors must also be members of the investment committee of each SIEFORE. The board must be
composed of at least five directors, and at least two-fifths of the members of the board must be independent
directors. In order to qualify as an independent director, a director may not be closely related to or have any
employment relationship with the shareholders or principal officers of the AFORE. Directors, including
independent directors can be held responsible for any actions taken, or for knowledge of irregularities that may
be contrary to the interests of the workers. Each AFORE is required to have a compliance officer responsible for
overseeing compliance with the rules established by the Pensions Systems Law and CONSAR as well as internal
rules and procedures. The compliance officer is appointed by and directly responsible to the shareholders of the
AFORE and may not be removed by management. In addition to overseeing internal compliance and reporting
to management and shareholders on the status of compliance, the compliance officer must report to CONSAR on
a monthly basis or immediately in the event of the discovery of any irregularity in compliance. The Compliance
Officer will be held responsible for failure to execute his responsibilities under the law and is subject to
sanctions.



MEizco - CONTRACTuAL S4 vnGSDEvELOPmEIVTPROGRAM                                    19
Investor protection. Article 31 provides that each AFORE must establish a specialized unit
to respond to questions and claims from workers and employers. Such unit must include an
officer with authority to enter into agreements binding on the AFORE and must report to its
board. More importantly for investor security, Articles 109 and I 0 of the Law provide for
submission of claims of workers and employees that are not settled by such unit to a system of
conciliation and arbitration overseen by CONSAR.
.  Supervision of the reformed system: strengthened CONSAR.  From the outset, the
Government has recognized the need for a strong regulatory authority for the pension system,
with both the legal authority and the human and other resources required to assure compliance
with law and regulations. The Pension Systems Law grants CONSAR broad powers to set
and enforce rules and standards for all aspects of operations of the revised pension system.
CONSAR has full supervisory authority over AFOREs and SIEFOREs, as well as supervisory
authority over other participants in the pension system (such as banks and insurance
companies) to the extent the activities of such entities involve the pension system. CONSAR
is empowered to issue regulations, conduct examinations, impose fines and sanctions and
recommend criminal prosecutions. In the event that irregularities are uncovered in the
operations of any entity subject to CONSAR supervision (including AFOREs and
SIEFOREs), CONSAR is authorized to effect an administrative or management intervention
of such entity. As discussed above, CONSAR may revoke the authorization of any AFORE
or SIEFORE found to be out of compliance with the Pension Systems Law or CONSAR
regulations.
CONSAR has prepared an institutional development plan ("Plan General de Restructuraci6n
de CONSAR") to provide itself with resources commensurate with its new responsibilities.
The annual budget of the CONSAR is expected to increase substantially by approximately
60%. Over the next eighteen months, the plan envisages the installation of a new computer
system (and the hiring of outside contractors), a substantial increase in staff (from 162 to over
250), public education programs, the upgrading of key systems and training of personnel.
Two-thirds of the new staff will be mid- and high-level personnel. A portion of the funds
necessary for improving systems and developing the capacity of CONSAR staff will be
provided through the on-going Bank - financed FTAL. The priorities of the plan in the areas
of systems and personnel include: development of actuarial standards and methodologies of
analysis; implementation of on-site and off-site supervision programs; drafting of examination
manuals and training of examiners; implementation of systems and software to monitor trading
activity and detect irregularities; development of methodologies for measuring risk and
assessing the effectiveness of private securities ratings; installation of systems and preparation
of staff to produce a regularly issued statistical bulletin providing key data on the performance
of the pension system.
(b)   Investment Management Regime: Classes of Funds and Portfolio Composition
2.31   Article 43 of the Pension Systems Law authorizes CONSAR to establish and enforce rules
of general application for the composition of the portfolios of SIEFOREs. In preparing these
regulations, CONSAR has been especially sensitive to issues relating to: (i) the prudent balance
between investing in government bonds, private equity and debt instruments and bank obligations;
(ii) investor options among portfolios with different investment policies; and (iii) valuation of



20                                                                                  PREzIDENT'sREPoRr
portfolio securities. The draft investment management regime reviewed by Bank staff [para. 4.5
(b)] is expected to be issued before the end of 1996 [para. 4.6 (b)].
2.32   Initially Single Class of SIEFOREs.  Article 47 of Pension Systems Law  authorizes
CONSAR to permit each AFORE to manage and offer to its customers a variety of SIEFOREs
with different portfolio compositions, provided that each AFORE offers at least one SIEFORE
the portfolio of which is composed "fundamentally" of securities whose returns are indexed to the
Mexican CPI. Mexican legislators felt that to assure public confidence in the system, participants
need to be provided with the option of investing in instruments offering a real rate of return.
2.33   At the outset CONSAR will allow  each AFORE to establish only a single SIEFORE,
"fundamentally" invested in indexed instruments. CONSAR intends eventually (perhaps beginning
in 1998) to permit each AFORE to offer customers a variety of equity and debt funds with distinct
investment policies. This decision to restrict each AFORE to only a single debt fund at the outset
reflects the government's desire to  simplify supervision in the first year of pension fund
operations, reduce potential confusion among the public and build public support by avoiding
volatility. Article 4 of the draft investment regime regulations interprets the term "fundamentally"
to require that at least 51% of the assets of the initial SIEFOREs be represented by debt
instruments indexed to consumer inflation.
I M        M     LI M ITS     _                                                   i........................
_. .    >.,...............___   _    .................... ........  ffud 
LJMITS JI5YINSTIIMFWT (~ ~p~n~ktge 9fFw......                   (as % of fund)
M   R......,                                    . .....
Government debt (1j                                                                   100
Equity securities                                                                      0
Investment grade co_porate -non-bank- debt (2)                                        20
LElig b e bank deb (i_sued or guaranteeby a commercial bank) (29_3)                   10
Total eligible private debt (corporate and commercial bank) and                       30
development bank obligations
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer as a              10
Lnercentage of SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer, as               10
a percentage of the issuer's securities
Investmen_tin_any singe issue as a percentage of such issue                            10
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by issuers belonging to                15
the same financial, commercial or industrial group, as a percentage of
SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by affiliates of the                    5
SIEFORE as a percentage of SIEFORE assets                                          _.
(1) Development bank obligations are subject to the overall limit of 50% investment for corporate, commercial bank and
development bank securities.
(2) Short-term obligations (less than one year maturity) must be rated in the top three rating categories by an authorized rating
agency; long-term obligations must be rated in the top two categories. CONSAR's Risk Analysis Committee will establish
criteria for when a rating from a single agency is inadequate and when commercial banks would be required to secure a rating
from an additional agency.
(3) The securities of banks that have been intervened by the authorities or whose primary capital (exclusive of subordinated
debt) is less than 4% of risk weighted assets are ineligible for investment by SIEFOREs.



MA&co- CoN1RAcTuAL SAvwNGSDEvELOPMENTPROGRAm                                         21
2.34   Portfolio Composition. CONSAR is empowered to establish prudential regulations
governing the portfolio composition of SIEFOREs.7  The following chart summarizes the
prudential limitations included in the draft investment regime regulation for the initial SIEFOREs.
The limitations to be imposed reflect CONSAR's consideration of a number of characteristics of
the Mexican securities markets, including: (i) the degree of liquidity of many listed equity
securities; (ii) the suitability of certain poorly-rated debt instruments for mandatory pension funds;
(iii) the fairly small number of private issuers in the market and the dangers of concentration of
investment in related companies; and (iv) concerns about the appropriateness of excessive
investment in the banking system, in particular in those institutions that may not be able to comply
with capital adequacy standards.
2.35   Complementary Securities Markets Reforms.  The Government recognizes that
continued development of Mexico's privately-managed mandatory pension system depends on
implementation of complementary reforms in the country's securities markets. Accordingly,
CONSAR and CNBV are collaborating on a number of financial market modernization efforts,
including: improving standards for the existing private rating agency industry; upgrading the
regulatory framework and supervision of Mexican securities markets; improving disclosure
standards for issuers and intermediaries consistent with international best practice; and
strengthening self-regulation by market participants.
(c)    Fiscal Costs
2.36   The full benefits of the reform will not be felt unless the fiscal costs of the existing
unfunded system are made explicit to the extent possible and are funded through a credible
financing plan. The Government must also define what combination of additional fiscal savings
(higher revenues or lower spending) and borrowing will finance the transition costs. Addressing
these issues is critical to fiscal discipline and to the impact of the pension reform on domestic
savings. A discussion of the fiscal costs of transition is summarized below. A detailed analysis of
these costs, including an explanation of the model as well as sensitivity analyses under various
assumptions, is presented in Annex V.
2.37  The reform of the old age security system generates four fiscal consequences:
* the cost of providing pensions to existing pensioners (without the income provided by the
PAYG defined benefit system);
* the costs of providing pension guarantees, including the guarantee of pension benefits
under the old PAYG system to transition workers resulting from the lifetime switch option
at retirement, and the MPG to new workers;
* making explicit the implicit 1992-96 liabilities in the retirement sub-account; and
* the costs of the new NP$l per day Government contribution to individual accounts
indexed to the CPI (the Social Quota) and Government contribution of 0.425 percent of
salary towards workers pension.
Such CONSAR regulations are subject to the general requirement of Article 43 that 100% of the portfolio be
invested in cash and/or securities and the prohibition against foreign investment included in Transitory Article
38 of the Social Security Law.



22                                                                   PRESID  'SREPORT
2.38  In addition, pension contributions can no longer support health insurance.  Changes
introduced in the social security law which affect health insurance are estimated by the Mexican
authorities to increase the cost of health insurance by about 0.5 percent of GDP per year. The
Government is still analyzing these fiscal implications of the change to the social security law for
health service provision. The World Bank and the IDB are working with the Mexican authorities
to finalize estimates of additional costs, and, on health sector reforms.
2.39  Pensions for Existing Retirees. Fiscal costs for providing for existing pensioners and
those receiving invalidity payments can be estimated accurately since IMSS knows the number of
pensioners receiving benefits and the amount of benefits paid. These costs equal about 0.4
percent of GDP for 1997 and will decline rapidly over time.
2.40  Pension Guarantees. These comprise: (i) the guarantee of pension benefits to transition
workers resulting from the lifetime switch option at retirement; and (ii) the MPG to new workers.
The Government must fund these two guarantees only to the extent that value of funds in the
individual accounts are insufficient to cover them.
  Benefits to transition workers: old age and disability. Transition workers will choose the
MPG under the present system if the accumulated balances in their individual retirement
accounts (in post-1997 AFORES retirement accounts and post-1997 INFONAVIT accounts)
and the investment performance of these accounts are inadequate to provide the MPG. The
fiscal cost of the MPG, which is the difference between the value of the minimum benefit and
the value of a worker's post 1997 individual account at retirement is uncertain. It depends on
the contribution rate, the number of years transition workers contribute to the new system,
the growth in real wages, and the rate of return achieved on fund investments. Under
conservative assumptions (2 percent real wage growth, 3.5 percent real rate of return on
AFORES accounts, and non-availability of INFONAVIT account funds to meet the MPG if
workers choose benefits under the old system), the fiscal cost accounted for by these
transition workers will rise from 0.21 percent of GDP in 1997 to about 0.80 percent of GDP
in 2025 (Table 5). Nearly 10% of this cost is due to the cost of providing life/disability and
occupational risk insurance to transition workers.
*  MPG to New Workers. This MPG is linked to the minimum wage of January 1, 1997
indexed to the CPI and not as under the present system to the actual minimum wage
prevailing at the time the pension is drawn.  This reduces its fiscal cost substantially.
Estimates of these costs are dependent on real wage growth and real investment performance
as well as the number of workers entering the new system and the rate of inflation. It also
depends on the distribution of workers within wage categories. The more workers earning
close to the minimum wage, the more costly the guarantee. Currently, about 50 percent of the
workers earn wages equal to or less than 2 times the minimum wage. However, if real wages
should grow by 2 percent per annum and the MPG to new workers remain unchanged in real
terms, the percentage of this MPG to minimum wage will drop to 61 percent in 25 years.
Under these and associated assumptions the cost of the MPG to new workers is almost
negligible in the earlier years, increasing to about 0.2% of GDP in 2025.
2.41  Transfer of Accumulated Balances in Retirement Sub-accounts. Transition workers
have the right to transfer their accumulated contributions in the retirement sub-account made



ME=CO- CONTRACTUALA4vNGSDEvELOPMENTPROGRAM                                          23
between 1993 and 1996 to AFORES which will maintain these in a separate sub-account. They
have an acquired right to a 2 percent real rate of return on these funds for the first year if they
choose to maintain their balances in the Central Bank. Since these funds are already included as
debt of the Federal Government, they are not included as a new fiscal cost but have fiscal
consequences in that the Government would have to refinance an estimated US$4 billion of
domestic debt within four years.
2.42  Daily Social Quota. The uncertainty in this cost is the number of workers opting for
coverage under the reform. If pension funds are perceived as lucrative savings vehicles, many
workers now in the informal sector may join the formal sector. The NP$1 contribution, being
indexed to the CPI, will decline as a percent of wages through time as real wage growth occurs.
It's cost is estimated to equal 0.20 percent of GDP in 2025 assuming a slight increase in coverage
(from 28% of economically active population presently to 36% by 2025).
2.43   Estimated Total Fiscal Costs. The sum of the above costs related to pension reform is
estimated to be between 1 and 2 percent of GDP during the next 20 years (Table 5).
Table 5. Total Estimated Fiscal Cost of Pension Reform in 1997-2025
(percent of GDP)
........   .             ..   ....2        ..$   ....5
A. Pensions paid to pre 1997 Retirees    0.39        .09        0.03
B. MPG to Transition Workers Without     0.21        0.70       0.80
INFONAVIT
(MPG to Transition Workers with      (0.05)      (0.38)      (0.53)
INFONAVIT)
B. MPG to New Workers                     0           0         0.16
C. NP 1$ Per Day (Social Quota) and other
Government Contributions             0.33        0.25       0.20
TOTAL (Without INFONAVIT)           0.93        1.04        1.19
TOTAL (With INFONAVIT)            (0.77)      (0.72)      (0.92)
Source: Annex V, Scenario 2B and 4B.
2.44  The Government has completed the sensitivity analysis of the fiscal costs of transition and
the evaluation of actuarial methodologies and the data base [para. 4.5 (c.i)]. The Government will
also publish annually the actuarial income and expenses for IVCM programs to make fiscal
transition costs explicit [para. 4.5 (c.ii)], and pension related transition costs for 1997 will be
included in the 1997 budget. The Government has also agreed to maintain updated projections of
pension related transition costs for later years and make them public.



24                                                                    PRES1DENT'SREPORT
2.45  To ensure the smooth transfer of SAR accumulated balances from the Central Bank to
AFOREs, the Government has already developed processes establishing the means to authorize
transfers and to ensure that contributors are informed about the transfer [para. 4.5 (c.iii)].
(d) INFONA VIT
2.46  Mexico's special housing funds form part of the country's pension and social security
system. INFONAVIT, which covers private sector workers, and FOVISSSTE, which covers
government workers, provide subsidized mortgages to eligible members. These activities are
funded through mandated employer contributions into individual workers' accounts equivalent to
5 percent of a worker's base wage in the case of INFONAVIT (up to 10 minimum salaries).
Balances in individual housing accounts augment workers' retirement benefits.
2.47  Both institutions serve as important vehicles for mortgage finance. More specifically,
INFONAVIT, which operates as a retail mortgage institution, provides about 20 percent of total
housing credit and 45 percent of new housing units. The institution suffers from weak credit
management and poor commercial practices. Substantial subsidies (in addition to those contained
in contracted interest rates) are being generated by a number of factors, including underwriting
standards which grant mortgages whose amortization periods extend beyond a contributor's
working life, and fluctuations in the real minimum wage to which mortgage payments are tied.
These practices have led to financial problems including negative real rates of return on workers'
contributions (-2 percent in 1993 and 1994), and a reduced lending capacity due to capital erosion
resulting from poor repayment and collection.
2.48  All this is compounded by extensive evasion or underreporting of contributions by
employers. Management changes introduced in 1992 have had a limited effect on operations.
2.49 Under the reform, contributions to INFONAVIT will represent between 30 and 40 percent
of total contributions to pension accounts. The ramifications of INFONAVIT not earning
positive real rates of return include: (i) higher fiscal costs as a poor financial performance by
INFONAVIT lowers total returns on individual accounts and increases the probability that
younger transition workers will choose the old PAYG over the new system or that the
Government will have to provide for a MPG for new workers; and (ii) the loss of potential
retirement income by workers just entering the new system which could lead to continued
evasion. The burden of poor performance of INFONAVIT on new workers will be aggravated as
the MPG falls relative to average wages. In addition, the Government recognizes that a modern
housing finance system will require significant improvements in INFONAVIT's financial
performance.
2.50  The Government has agreed to initiate measures to ensure that INFONAVIT earns a
positive real rate of return and that the accumulated benefits of this housing contribution are
added to the wage contribution in AFORES accounts (6.5 percent plus the daily "Social Quota"
NP$1 per day) assuring better pension benefits for workers and reducing the fiscal costs of the
reform. Among other actions, the reforms will ensure that, for the first time, there is proper
disclosure to contributors and the general public on INFONAVIT's operations and performance,
establishing the basis for improved accountability. Hence, the reforms should lead to improved
performance by INFONAVIT or trigger a reaction, which could lead to further Government
actions.



MF.tco - ComcAcTvuL SA vNs DEraoPmEzTPROGRAm                                    25
2.51  Based on the results of a special evaluation of INFONAVIT's operations, several
measures are being implemented to improve financial performance which will include [para. 4.5
(d)]:
*  initiating a regular supervisory process by the National Banking and Securities Commission
"Comisi6n Nacional Bancariay de Valores (CNBV)"; and
* publication in CONSAR's bulletin, at least twice a year, of the results of INFONAVIT's
financial operations.
(e)   Account Individualization and Strengthening of the IMSS
2.52  As mentioned earlier (para. 2.15), IMSS retains an important role in the reformed old age
security system, inter alia, the enforcement of billing and collection of contributions to the
system, and continued payments to current pensioners and to transition workers choosing the old
benefit scheme at retirement. Given the severe problem that arose in the existing SAR system with
multiple accounts and account admninistration and the high levels of evasion to the system, the
IMS S' greatest challenge at the outset of the reform will be to ensure the implementation of the
operational scheme of the new pension system, particularly with the collecting and channeling of
contributions to AFOREs.
2.53  To avoid the aforementioned problem with multiple accounts, the new legislation
specifically requires individuals to have unique accounts. The law also establishes that the IMSS is
to assign a new account number to each contributor to the system. Transfers of accounts will be
permitted when changes of employment occur, preventing one of the main problems that resulted
in the emergence of multiple accounts per contributor. Avoiding multiple accounts will be
particularly important given the government contribution of NP$1/day and the tax benefits for
employers associated with these accounts.
2.54  Since late 1995, CONSAR has been adopting a series of regulations to initiate a process of
consolidation of SAR accounts. As part of this process, CONSAR signed agreements (convenios)
with IMSS, and INFONAVIT to use one number (that of IMSS) to uniquely identify retirement
accounts and to interchange and reconcile account information for each contributor [para. 4.5
(e.i)]8. The regulations issued by CONSAR also supported the creation of a privately owned and
managed entity to process account information and effect transfers of accounts (PROCESAR),
and to establish a national data base for retirement accounts (BDNSAR) [para. 4.5 (e.ii)].
2.55  In addition, a special agreement was signed between CONSAR/SHCP and IMSS to
strengthen its capacity to manage the implementation of the new operational scheme [para. 4.5
(e.iii)]. This agreement includes actions to ensure: the updating of the IMSS data base; the
issuance of the social security number of the IMSS; the integration of the new IMSS data base to
BNDSAR; and the appropriate functioning of billing and collection of contributions. All these
tasks will be performed according to a time-bound working plan outlined in the agreement to be
signed between CONSAR and the IMSS. The working plan not only includes the modernization
of the IMSS computer systems but also of its operational procedures.
(I)   Public Confidence and Education
2.56  The lack of public confidence and the low level of financial sophistication across a broad
spectrum of the population are key factors hindering the growth of institutional savings. This
See footnote 2 in page 9.



26                                                                     PRESIDENT 'SREPORT
stems from a public perception that government management of funds or provision of services has
been both inefficient and often corrupt. The public is skeptical that contributions to government
and private savings schemes will result in later benefits to them. Instead the public fears that
contributions will be used for excessive public expenditures rather than for investment in
economically viable and desirable public projects. In addition, government or private savings
schemes have often not defined individual accounts clearly, and the quality of information
disclosed to individual savers has been poor, thus further reducing confidence.
2.57  The Government has already initiated a public awareness campaign to bolster support for
the reform and to encourage participation in the new pension system. This program will inform
workers about how the new system will benefit them and how it makes them responsible for
managing their own retirement account. In the case of Mexico, initial diversification will be
limited.
Complementary Financial Market Reforms9
2.58   The Government recognizes that continued successful development of Mexico's privately-
managed mandatory pension system is linked to the implementation of complementary financial
market reforms. Inter alia, reforms to facilitate the development of an adequate supply of quality
financial assets for pension funds to invest in. Accordingly, as part of the CSDP, the Government
has initiated a number of financial market modernization reforms, including: (i) efforts to
strengthen the banking system; (ii) actions to address deficiencies  in the regulatory and
supervisory framework for mutual funds and voluntary pension plans; and (iii) actions to facilitate
the deepening of the insurance market for the provision of life and disability insurance coverage
and annuities.
(a)   Banking System
2.59  For the foreseeable future, Mexico's privately-managed pension funds will operate within
a financial system overwhelmingly dominated by commercial banks and their financial holding
companies. The health of the Mexican financial system as a whole depends importantly on the
effective resolution of the banking crisis that followed the 1994 devaluation of the peso and
restoration of the health of Mexico's commercial banks.
2.60  In the aftermath of the devaluation, the Mexican financial sector authorities focused their
efforts on the immediate problems. The initial steps taken included: holding actions to avoid
systemic collapse; loosening of foreign investment restrictions; incentives to encourage
recapitalization of banks by shareholders; and intervention of the most troubled banks in the
system. As the situation has stabilized, the emphasis is on putting in place the prerequisites for a
more consolidated, well capitalized, competitive and efficient commercial banking system. This
stage involves: a more selective bank-by-bank approach to resolutions; implementation of revised
prudential regulations and accounting standards; reexamination of the bank liability insurance
scheme; stepped-up supervision; acceleration of the final disposition of intervened banks and
assets; and modernization of the legal/regulatory framework for banking and finance.
9 The Government's actions in this area will be monitored as part of the overall program implementation.



MfExrco - CONrTRACTUAL SAvrNGSDEtELOPMAEATPROGRA4                                 27
(b)   Mutual Funds.
2.61  Mexico's mutual funds fall into four general categories, stock funds (which may also
invest a share of their assets in debt instruments), debt funds for individuals, debt funds for
corporations, and venture capital funds. Each type of fund is governed by a different set of
regulations covering asset diversification, valuation and other aspects of fund operation. Since
the enactment of the current Mutual Funds Law (Ley de Sociedades de Inversi6n) in 1987,
Mexico's mutual fund industry has been characterized by: (i) fairly wide variations in the volume
of assets under management; (ii) a steady decline in the number of accounts, especially those held
by individual investors;  (iii)  a high degree of concentration, especially for equity fund
management; and (iv) management by banks and other financial group subsidiaries, who often
have incentives to steer customer and mutual fund investments into direct obligations of affiliated
banks. Performance records have been spotty. In general, debt funds have performed similarly
to money market instruments. This is not surprising, since the shortage of long-term debt
instruments and the need to maintain liquidity to provide for often dramatic unexpected
redemptions has caused most debt funds to invest principally in short-term government and bank
obligations.
2.62  At the end of 1995, Mexican mutual funds assets amounted to approximately N$50 billion
(3 percent of GDP), down from a high of N$100 billion in May 1992, in little more than 260
thousand accounts. More than three quarters of mutual fund assets are in debt funds invested
overwhelmingly in short-term instruments. Since the commercial bank privatizations of 1992, the
percentage of debt fund portfolios invested in obligations of banks has increased dramatically, by
April 1995 reaching almost 72%. The failure of the Mexican mutual fund industry to develop as
an attractive alternative to competing short-term bank instruments and the continued
concentration of management of mutual funds by financial groups with a strong presence in
banking had already prompted the Government to reexamine current laws and regulations in this
area before the enactment of the pension system reform. The reform reinforced the need for such
reexamination. The number of fund managers is expected to grow as financial groups take
advantage of synergies between operating an AFORE and a mutual fund manager. More
importantly, a larger and better managed mutual fund industry could provide an important
complement to SIEFOREs, by contributing to deeper long-term debt and equity markets and
providing institutional demand for riskier securities in which pension fund investment will be
limited.
2.63  As noted above under "Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for Fund Administration",
the legal/regulatory regime for AFOREs and SEEFOREs is tighter than that for mutual funds,
especially in the areas of corporate governance and conflicts of interest. The Government,
through CNBV and CONSAR, is reviewing the experience of the mutual fund industry over the
past nine years, focusing on issues of portfolio valuation, related-party transactions and the
relationship between fund managers and the fund. The results will provide a basis for changes in
mutual fund regulation, including: (i) greater voting rights for shareholders, (ii) a more important
role for independent directors on the boards of investment companies, (iii) requirements for
independent director approval of affiliate transactions; (iv) valuation of portfolio securities by
unaffiliated parties; (v) steps to encourage the development of an independent mutual fund
management industry; and (vi) more effective supervision by the CNBV.



28                                                                  PRESIDE:T 'SREPORT
(c)    Voluntary Pension Plans
2.64  A number of private companies in Mexico have established voluntary pension plans for the
benefit of their workers (para. 2.7). Most such schemes provide for employee contributions of
between 2 and 6 percent of annual wages, with the assets of the plan managed by a bank or
brokerage firm. Although these plans are subject to certain portfolio requirements established by
SHCP, they operate entirely outside the current IMSS and ISSSTE systems and are essentially
unsupervised. It is expected that voluntary private pension plans will grow in importance given
the public visibility of the pension reform and possible revisions of the tax code currently under
study that would provide greater incentives for employer and employee contributions to such
plans.
2.65  The new Social Security Law and the Pension Systems Law represent an important first
step towards introducing a regulatory and supervisory regime for Mexico's private voluntary
pension plans. Article 82 of the Pension Systems Law provides for the registration of qualifying
voluntary pension plans with the CONSAR in accordance with rules and procedures to be
established by CONSAR. Registered plans must be certified as actuarially sound to the
satisfaction of the CONSAR and will be subject to full CONSAR regulation and supervision.
Registration of a plan with CONSAR permits a worker's retirement account at an AFORE to be
transferred to such worker or the voluntary pension plan's administrator when such worker retires
under the terms of the voluntary plan. Since voluntary plans often permit workers to receive a
pension at an earlier age than under the Social Security Law, participation in a registered plan will
be attractive to workers in that it will give them earlier access to accumulations in their AFORE
retirement account. Future tax incentives for voluntary retirement plans will also likely be
available only for plans registered with CONSAR.
(d)   Development of Disability and Life Insurance
2.66  Under its retained role in disability and life coverage, the IMSS is required to provide
specific benefits within a budget of 2.5 percent of wages for life and disability insurance. The most
feasible way to provide efficient insurance coverage will be to purchase insurance plans from
private carriers. However, the private insurance market is currently underdeveloped; its
development is a medium-term objective of the Government. Evidence suggests that privatization
of these insurance coverages could substantially reduce the number of people on the disability
rolls through tightening of disability standards and reduce the premiums for both these types of
insurance combined to less than 2 percent of wages.
2.67 To make progress in the development of the private insurance industry, the Government
through the National Insurance Commnission "Comisi6n Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas (CNSF)"
and the SHCP will initiate a study to review existing regulations for provision of life and disability
by insurance companies. Terms of reference for the study have already been agreed to with CNSF
and consultants have been contracted. The study's recommendations will provide the basis to
initiate a plan to modernize the existing legal and regulatory framework for life and disability
insurance
(e)   Development of Annuities Market
2.68  Under the reform workers have the option of purchase an annuity with the fund in 'their'
SIEFORES accounts in retirement. In addition, transition workers have the option of taking lump
sum payouts at retirement from the retirement sub-accounts established between May 1992 and



ME;xco - CoNTRACTuAL SA vGs DEEL oPMENT PRoGRAM                                  29
1996 and from their INFONAVIT accounts. Currently the annuities market in Mexico is almost
non-existent.
2.69  On April 26, 1996 , the Ley General de Instituciones y Sociedades Mutualistas de
Seguros was amended to establish the legal framework for the development and supervision of the
annuities market. In addition, through the National Insurance Commission (Comisi6n Nacional
de Seguros y Fianzas - CNSF), a study will be carried out to identify the changes needed to the
regulatory framework for annuities, including types of annuity products, reporting requirements,
pricing guidelines, actuarial disclosures, and regulation of insurance brokers' commissions. Terms
of reference for the study have already been agreed to with CNSF. Based on the results of the
study, regulations will be issued complementing the requirements of the amended law.
III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Overall Assistance Strategy
3.1   Past Lending. The Bank vigorously supported Mexico's economic adjustment and debt
reduction programs during the FY86-91 period, with loans totaling almost US$11.4 billion
(reaching a peak of US$2.6 billion in FY90), more than half of which were quick disbursing
sector adjustment and interest support loans. This led to a rise in Bank exposure in Mexico, from
8.8 percent of the Bank's total portfolio in 1989, to about 12 percent currently. Between FY92-
94, annual lending averaged US$1.4 billion, with no adjustment loans, and the focus of operations
shifted to poverty reduction, human resource development and the environment, while
maintaining a strong program in infrastructure. The Bank supported Mexico following the crisis
of December 1994 with two operations: (i) a US$1 billion quick disbursing Financial Sector
Restructuring Loan (FSRL I) to assist in efforts to rescue Mexico's banking system which had
come under severe stress as a result of the exchange rate crisis, and consequent inflation and
recession; and (ii) a US$500 million Essential Social Services Loan. These two operations,
together with investment lending, increased total lending in FY95 to US$2.4 billion.
3.2   Future Lending. As indicated in the CAS recently submitted to the Board, future Bank
lending is expected to incorporate baseline lending of US$1.5 billion per annum for the next three
years focused on investment lending, with adjustment lending totaling US$1.25 billion, viz (i) the
proposed Contractual Savings Development Program; (ii) a second follow-up Financial Sector
Restructuring Loan (FSRL II); and (iii) a Second Contractual Savings operation. The proposed
lending program supports government plans to implement far reaching structural measures
covering:
*     Measures to raise domestic savings, including effective pension reform (moving to
a fully-funded, defined contribution, privately-managed, scheme); continued
restructuring of the banking system; a further shift to consumption-based (rather
than income-based) taxes; and further capital market development (including
development of long-term savings instruments).
*     Private sector development and modernization of social services, including
modernization of the public health delivery system through joint public/private
provision by sub-contracting to private providers of medical services.
*     Provision of adequate and cost-effective infrastructure services, through a
program of infrastructure privatization and development of second-tier mortgage



30                                                                   PRESIDENT 'sREPORT
lending institutions and the creation of a market in mortgage asset-backed
securities.
B. IFC
3.3   As of June 30, 1996, IFC's portfolio in Mexico involved 40 clients and stood at US$652
million, including US$582 million (89 percent) in loan investments and US$70 million (11
percent) in equity participations. IFC's Mexican exposure amounted then to 7.6 percent and 6.6
percent of total investments disbursed and held, respectively, by the Corporation world-wide.
The Bank and IFC have been cooperating closely in response to the crisis and its aftermath and in
preparing the first joint Bank Group CAS in 1996 for Mexico. IFC staff have been members of
the Bank teams responsible for the development of the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan as
well as the Infrastructure Privatization Technical Assistance Loan. IFC has also been working
closely with the Bank on the formulation of a possible fund for private infrastructure financing and
in the Southern State Initiative, Taking into account the emerging needs of the private sector and
the development agenda proposed in the CAS, IFC intends to significantly increase its investment
activities and portfolio exposure in Mexico in the coming years. Reflecting the sizeable long-term
financing needs of the corporate sector, IFC anticipates that through FY99 its activities could
increase from 10 to 14 projects per year while estimated gross approvals could reach US$700-800
million annually, including US$300-350 million for IFC's own account. Such a program would
result in the processing of 40-44 projects involving estimated gross commitments of US$2.2
billion through FY99, of which about US$1 billion would be for IFC's own account. Over 50%
of the program would go to financial market development and general manufacturing, and the
balance to infrastructure, petrochemicals and agribusiness. The share of infrastructure could
increase substantially with a comprehensive privatization program in this sector.
C. Coordination with the IMF
3.4   The Bank has been working closely with the IMF in monitoring the macroeconomic
situation in Mexico and advising the Government in this area. Given the IMF's direct role in
financing the stabilization program through the ongoing stand-by arrangement, its team has led
the dialogue on macroeconomic stabilization measures, exchange rate policy, and liability
management issues. In fiscal policy, the IMF has concentrated on developing macro targets,
while the Bank's sectoral background has enabled us to advise on sector policies. In the financial
sector, the Bank has a lead role, due to our prior experience in preparing both last year's Financial
Technical Assistance Loan and the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan. At the same time, the
IMF and the Bank have coordinated especially closely in implementing the Financial Sector
Restructuring Loan, because of the inter-dependence of financial sector and macroeconomic
stability. The impact of macroeconomic adjustment on social programs is of concern to both
institutions, and the Bank is sharing with the IMF its analysis in this area during the course of the
stabilization program. Finally, macroeconomic stability will depend critically on Mexico's ability
to increase domestic savings and productivity; the Bank's ongoing analytical work in these areas
is being shared with the IMF, so that it can feed into the evolving macroeconomic framework.
The Fund is discussing with the Government a three-year extended arrangement to succeed the
current stand-by which, following its recent six-month extension, expires in February 1997.



AMI=co - CONTRACTUAL SA VGsDLopmENTPRoGR,4                                       31
D. Coordination with the IIDB
3.5   Given the current economic situation, the IDB strategy for Mexico is divided into short-
and longer-term components. The IDB's short-term objective is to support Government efforts
to reestablish macroeconomic stability through (i) program lending aimed at assuring the solvency
of the financial sector and (ii) helping finance the basic needs of those most affected by the crisis.
To these ends, the IDB has cofinanced both of the World Bank's large crisis-related operations:
the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan and the Essential Social Services Loan. It is also
expected to cofinance the present proposed loan in support of the Contractual Savings
Development Program.
3.6   The IDB's longer-term objectives are to support Government efforts to: (i) achieve
sustained economic growth, via infrastructure investments aimed at private sector development,
agricultural productivity growth, and human resources development; (ii) promote equitable
growth, through programs to reduce poverty and to improve the provision of social services
(education, nutrition, and health) --relying on and reinforcing the capacity of states and
municipalities and of the private sector; and (iii) achieve environmentally sustainable growth,
through programs geared to protect the environment and natural resources.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Origin
4.1   The proposed loan would support the first phase of the reform of the Mexican social
insurance system. The Bank's involvement in the area of contractual savings in Mexico began in
1990 with the preparation of an economic report which provided a detailed analysis of contractual
savings issues. A number of the report's recommendations were taken up in reforms, including in
January 1993 when the concept of the individual retirement account was introduced as part of the
SAR. The proposed loan is the outcome of a close dialogue between the Bank and the
Government on the development of Mexico's financial sector and the need to improve the
allocation of financial resources and set the basis for the effective channeling of domestic savings.
4.2   The Bank's involvement during the first half of 1994 included the provision of advice and
technical support in the area of pension and social security reform and in other capital market
development areas. This involvement culminated in the preparation of a pension reform and
financial sector policy option papers for the new administration and Bank financing of technical
assistance to the financial sector. The Government's initial request for Bank financial support for
the proposed operation was made in September 1995. The Government legislation reforming the
pension system was enacted on December 15, 1995 and April 26, 1996.
B. Loan Size and Proposed Tranche Conditionality
4.3   Loan Size. A single tranche loan of US$400 million is proposed to be made available
upon loan effectiveness, anticipated for February 1997. The loan closing date would be June 30,
1997.
4.4   Proposed Tranche Conditionality. The conditions below have been selected based on
their importance in the setting up of the new pension system. Although the process of private
pension fund management is at an early stage, by the time of tranche disbursement the legal,
regulatory and institutional framework for the new pension system will be in place. In addition to



32                                                                  PRESZDENT'SREPORT
the specific actions listed below, tranche release would be contingent upon: (a) maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic framework; and (b) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
overall Contractual Savings Development Program which is outlined in the Government's Letter
of Sector Policy (Annex I).
4.5   The following policy actions were taken prior to Board Presentation:
(a)   Reform of Old Age Insurance System: Congress approved reforms to the Social
Security Law to reform IMSS and move to a defined contribution scheme for
private sector workers (para. 2.13-2.14);
(b)   Regulation of pension fund administrators and supervision of the reformed
system: enacted the Ley de Coordinaci6n de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro
containing guiding principles acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.28-2.29); finalized
draft key regulations on fund administration and the investment management
regime containing guiding principles acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.31);
(c)   Fiscal transition costs: (i) completed sensitivity analysis and satisfactory
evaluation of actuarial methodologies and data base (para. 2.46); (ii) agreed to
publish annually the actuarial income and expenses for IVCM programs to make
fiscal transition costs explicit (para. 2.46) (iii) adopted transfer arrangements for
accumulated SAR balances (5/1992-1996) from the central bank to AFOREs over
a period of four years (para. 2.47);
(d)   INFONAVIT: initiated measures to improve financial performance including: (i)
initiation of a regular supervisory process by CNBV (para. 2.53); and (ii)
establishment of disclosure requirements for the returns obtained by INFONAVIT
(para. 2.53); and
(e)   Account individualization and strengthening of IMSS: (i) CONSAR signed
agreements with IMSS, ISSSTE, and fNFONAVIT to use one number to uniquely
identify SAR and SIEFORE accounts and to interchange and reconcile account
information for each contributor (para. 2.56); (ii) CONSAR issued circulars
providing rules for identification of accounts and account transfers and to
individualize aggregated contributions of multiple contributors (para. 2.56); and
(iii) a special agreement was signed between CONSAR/SHCP and IMSS to
strengthen its capacity to manage the implementation of the new operational
scheme (para. 2.57).
4.6   The following policy actions would be taken prior to effectiveness:
(a)   Regulation of pension fund administrators and supervision of the reformed
system: issuance by CONSAR of key regulations containing guiding principles
acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.28); and
(b)   Investment management rules: issuance by CONSAR of key regulations
containing a series of general principles governing investment management rules
and principles acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.31).
4.7   The second phase of the reform program would focus on the implementation of the new
pension system. This second phase is expected to be supported by a proposed second Contractual
Savings Development Program Loan to be presented to the Board towards late- 1997.



Mkuco - CONTRACTUAL SA viNGS DFEwPmENTPRoGRAm                                    33
C. Technical Assistance
4.8   The technical assistance requirements of this operation will be financed through the
Financial Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL) associated with FSRL I. In addition, a Policy and
Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) in the amount of US$975,000 was approved on
July 26, 1996 to support the preparation of the second phase of the Contractual Savings
Development Program. A matrix detailing the technical assistance to be provided is attached as
Annex III.
D. Disbursements
4.9   BANOBRAS the borrower and financial agent for the Loan would be responsible for
submitting withdrawal applications and would maintain separate records and accounts for all
transactions under the Loan. The Borrower will open an account in the central bank. Upon Bank
notification of tranche release, the proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in this
account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan
are used for ineligible purposes (e.g., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or
goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (i)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly
to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
E. Accounts and Audit
4. 1 0 BANOBRAS will maintain separate records for all transactions under the Loan. Upon the
Bank's request the Borrower shall have the deposit account audited in accordance with standard
Bank requirements.
F. Monitoring and Reporting
4.11  Monitoring and reporting will be facilitated through the close coordination of activities
and implementation agencies supported by the FTAL and direct technical assistance from the
Bank. Under the FTAL, technical assistance is being provided to assist the Government in
implementation of the overall program through the CONSAR, CNSF and SHCP.
G. Benefits and Risks
4.12 Benefits. The Government's contractual savings development program will result in a
number of important benefits:
a.  The change from an actuarially bankrupt defined/benefit system to a fully funded
defined-contribution scheme will increase public savings in the longer term. If the
current system were maintained, eventually the actuarial deficit would have to be met
with a subsidy from the fiscal account, an increase in contributions, or a decrease in
benefits.
b.  The separation of the pension and health sector schemes will result in greater
pressure to improve efficiency in the delivery of public health services. Currently,
these services are subsidized with funds from the pension system. The efficiency of
heaith services delivery must improve to avoid an increase in contributions or a cut
in benefits.



34                                                                     PRESIDENT 'SREPORT
c. The reform will create a new class of institutional investors (AFORES) and an
increased volume of institutionalized saving. As institutional investors gain expertise
in managing pension funds, the allocative efficiency of domestic savings will increase.
In addition, institutional investor demand for long-term assets permits the possibility
of the development of markets for long-termn financial instruments.
d. To the extent that institutional investors hold bank-related financial paper, a likely
outcome in the near term, these investors can play an important role in monitoring
and controlling bank risk by avoiding the paper of risky banks.
4.13   The pension reform is expected to have a positive social impact. Low income formal
sector workers rely heavily on publicly-provided pensions for sustainable post-retirement income
generally due to an insufficient accumulation of other savings. The establishment of SAR
accounts in the first phase of reforms in May 1992 provided many individuals with their first
account with a commercial bank. The Government's reform program will expand access to
financial services to a broader base of the population and at the same time provide greater
incentives for informal workers to join the formal economy. Specifically, the reforms supported
by the proposed operation will allow individuals to accumulate personal wealth, benefiting from
higher real rates of return in a broader range of investment vehicles improving post-retirement
living standards. The public information campaign to be carried out will gradually increase
awareness of the benefits of the new pension scheme and change current perception so that
contributions are perceived to be linked to benefits and an accumulation of wealth rather than as a
tax.
4.14  As workers retire under the reformed system they will buy annuities to convert the assets
accumulated in their pension accounts to yearly income to provide for retirement, which will
require the development of a regulatory framework for a private annuity market. In turn, the
creation of this market will spur the development of an insurance industry, both for the efficient
provision of annuity products and for the development of a wider range of insurance products,
such as life and disability insurance. Furthermore, the growth of a private insurance industry will
create a broader institutional investor base, which will support development of capital markets.
4.15  Risks. There are several major risks which could limit the effectiveness and impede the
success of the proposed pension reform program:
a. slippages or inadequate supervision of private pension fund managers, leading to low
returns, regulatory non-compliance and even fraud;
b. the weakening of the banking system adversely affecting the reformed pension system,
resulting from: (i) AFORES being established by financial groups which are also
owners of banks; and (ii) investments by AFORES in commercial bank liabilities;
c. difficulties in establishing unique identification numbers for contributors10 and in
reconciling multiple accounts which would delay the implementation of the pension
reform.
d. inadequate improvements in INFONAVIT's financial performance;
'1 See footnote 2 in page 9.



MExico - CONTRACTUAL SA7NGSDEw-LOPmENTPROGRAM                                     35
e. slower-than-expected development of a long-term securities market which would
reduce the investment options of pension funds, potentially constraining their returns;
and
f. lack of sufficient fiscal discipline necessary to maintain a favorable macroeconomic
environment to ensure that (a) pension funds' securities investments yield a positive
rate of return, and (b) the government has sufficient resources to provide benefits
promised to transition workers.
4.16  To address and reduce the first risk, the Government allowed itself a full year to prepare
for the implementation of the new pension scheme. In addition, pension fund assets are likely to
be very small at the beginning of the reform and invested in a narrow range of financial
instruments. New supervisory and enforcement powers for CONSAR have been included in the
Ley de Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro approved in April 1996. In parallel, the FTAL has
supported the Government in the development of policies and regulations in a broad range of
areas including the investment regime, capital regulation, and fee structure of privately-managed
pension funds. In addition, CONSAR is arranging cooperative relationships for training and
technical support from  the U.S. Securities and  Exchange  Commission  and  Chile's
Superintendency of Pension Fund Administrators.
4.17  To prevent the weaknesses of the banking system from adversely affecting the reformed
pension system, the Government's CSDP includes specific safeguards with respect to the
investment by AFORES in commercial bank liabilities. However, actual compliance with these
provisions will depend on the perceived power and technical capabilities of the supervisory body,
CONSAR. In addition, the Government has initiated a second stage of banking reforms to ensure
the restoration of the health of the banking system.
4.18  To preserve competition and reduce extreme reliance on financial conglomerates, the
Government has tried to facilitate broad entry and limit regulatory barriers in the establishment of
pension fund operators to stimulate competition. Limits included on foreign participation in
pension fund operators are only partial. In addition, these limits do not apply to a number of
countries with whom Mexico has reached agreements, including the U.S. and Canada under North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Of particular importance have been Government
actions to permit each investment fund account administrator to sub-contract services freely in
such areas as collections and account processing.
4.19  The Government has developed a plan to tackle the challenges for instituting a unique
identification number for each account holder and reconciling accounts for approximately 10
million contributors. CONSAR will contract the services of an experienced and well-qualified
specialized firm to assist in this task. The Bank has also reviewed and assessed this plan to ensure
that it is feasible and can be successfully implemented prior to the initiation of the new pension
system in 1997.
4.20  The Government recognizes the importance of improving INFONAVIT's performance to
ensure better returns for workers and minimize fiscal costs resulting from the minimum pension
guarantee. Measures being implemented, including proper disclosure of its operational results,
should lead to improved performance by INFONAVIT or trigger a public reaction, which could
lead to further Government actions.



36                                                                     PRESiDENT 'SREPORT
4.21   The risk of a slower-than-expected supply response for a variety of long-term securities is
being mitigated by: (i) reasonable prospects for macro-economic and monetary stability; and (ii)
improvements in the legal/regulatory framework for securities markets and mutual funds.
4.22  Finally, the potential for weakening of fiscal discipline will persist but is mitigated by both
Mexico's growth potential over the medium term and the significant amount of time remaining in
the term of the current administration which is strongly committed to these reforms. In addition,
the cost of the pension reform at between I and 2 percent of GDP has been adequately estimated
and is manageable. The low overall level of pensions and the favorable demographic structure in
Mexico are important factors which are helping to minimize the fiscal costs of the transition
compared with other countries in the region. Sensitivity studies using different rates of return and
actuarial estimates indicate that the range of costs fall within the scope of recent fiscal efforts and
are achievable both in the short and long term.
H. Environmental Impact
4.23   There are no negative environmental impacts associated with this loan, which therefore,
has an environmental rating of"C".
V. RECOMMENDATION
5.1    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Caio Koch-Weser



AN]VEX I
Page 1 of 5
MEXCO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
GOVERNMENTLETTER OFSECTORPOLICYFOR CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT'
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
One of the key objectives of the economic strategy adopted by the present Government is to lay the
foundations for sustainable growth of the productive apparatus. Given Mexico's present population dynamics,
this is the only way to generate the sources of well-paid employment required to raise the general standard of
living. With a view to achievement of this goal, the 1995-2000 National Development Plan highlights the need to
increase domestic saving, and it is in this context that a contractual savings program takes on particular
importance.
By means of this Letter of Development Policy, we are requesting World Bank (and Inter-American
Development Bank) financial support for implementation of the Pension System Reform now under way in
Mexico.
The success of this Reform will depend not only on the actual operating mechanisms introduced but also
on establishment of a climate of economic growth with price stability. It is in this context that the following
description of the key economic policy guidelines this Government has been applying since it took office should be
viewed.
In response to the conditions stemming from the financial crisis that overtook the country in late 1994,
and with the aim of laying firn foundations for sound and sustainable growth, Mexico's economic policy has
focused on three interlocking objectives. First, a contingency strategy was followed to rectify the major
macroeconomic imbalances that had been at the root of the financial crisis. Second, measures have been
introduced to mitigate the effects of the crisis on the standard of living of broad segments of the population, and to
create development opportunities for the most vulnerable social groups. Third, steps have been taken to extend
and expand the work of structural change so as to raise the productivity of the Mexican economy and thereby
enable it to join in the globalization process successfully.
Over the short term, the series of actions taken in the fiscal, monetary and exchange arenas made it
possible not only to cope with the abrupt suspension of capital inflows from the exterior but also to avoid
hyperinflation resulting from depreciation of the currency. Steps were also taken to ensure ongoing normal
operation of the financial system. This program required establishment of an Exchange Stabilization Fund, which
materialized thanks to support from the major international financial institutions and the financial authorities of
the US and Canada.
The Mexican economy went through its severest contraction since the era of the Great Depression, with
GDP falling by 6,9 percent in real terms in 1995. On the other hand, the trade balance showed a surplus of US$7
billion, which made it possible to rectify the balance of payments current account. Contrary to what occurred
during earlier crises, correction of the country's external accounts was possible on this occasion mainly because
1 Unofficial translation from the original Spanish text.



ANNEX I                                                     CONTRACIUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 2 of 5
of an expansion in exports, itself a result of advances in the modernization of the country's productive apparatus
in the years just prior to the crisis.
It is important to point out that the economic contraction occurred during the first part of the year, and
that by the fourth quarter of 1995 a change in trend was observable. For instance, GDP was higher in the fourth
quarter than in the third. Preliminary information indicates that this trend continued during the first quarter of
1996.
Changes in the National Consumer Price Index bear witness to a significant abatement of inflation.
Whereas the annualized inflation rate reached 52 percent by the end of 1995, in April this year it was at 37
percent, a trend expected to continue over the coming months. As for the key financial sector indicators, the drop
in inflation has resulted not only in lower interest rates but also reduced exchange market volatility.
I
For its part, the fiscal adjustment program helped increase savings in this sector consistent with the
objective of imnproving domestic saving performance. Results for the 1996 first quarter indicate that the goal of a
balanced budget will be achieved at the end of the year.
(Please note that the targets agreed under the program negotiated with the International Monetary Fund
have been satisfactorily reached.)
Mexico's social policy strategy has focused on decentralizing federal public expenditure. The transfer of
resources to state and local government hands has improved not only the efficiency with which they are
administered but also the mechanisms of response to social requirements. For one thing, this program has
contributed to the promotion of rural and urban infrastructure, to the advantage of low-income groups. At the
federal level, increased resources are being allocated to sustaining subsidies on certain goods and services, while
the subsidies themselves are being channeled more effectively to the neediest groups.
At the same time, increasing support has been made available for human resources training - through
programs designed to broaden education and improve the quality of instruction, raise nutritional levels, and
strengthen health services.
In the case of structural adjustment strategy, the main focus has been on raising the productivity and
efficiency of the economy, the former being regarded as the best means of increasing employment and
strengthening wage-earners' purchasing power.
In this context, the authorities have concentrated on promoting competition, expanding the deregulation
process, and eliminating distortions and privileges, particularly where they derive from a monopolistic market
structure. These obstacles occasion higher costs, which work to the detriment of the final consumer and
undermine the competitiveness of Mexican exports. At the same time, steps have been taken to strengthen
governmental regulatory capacity to protect consumer interests, in particular in such sectors as ports, airports,
telecommunications, rail transportation, and distribution of natural gas.
In the interests of greater social security, increased domestic saving, and more effective employment
support, the present Government has focused particular attention on reforming the pension system, a move which
demonstrates its determination to extend and expand structural change and ensure its sustainability.
The financial and production crisis precipitated in late 1994 revealed the vulnerability of the Mexican
economy in terms of the lack of widespread, ongoing domestic saving. Although domestic saving had reached 22
percent of the national product in 1988, it declined subsequently, failing below 16 percent in 1994. This led to
growing dependency on short-term capital flows to finance the expansion of internal aggregate demand. In these
circumstances, productive investment, particularly for the long term, lacked the dynamism required for sound
expansion of the productive apparatus, which in its turn meant that when the crisis erupted there were serious
consequences for welfare levels throughout the population, and on employment wages.



CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
In order to rectify the causes of the crisis, expand employment, and provide foundations for sustainable
groNvth, the Federal Government instituted a comprehensive strategy consisting of both contingency measures and
structural reforms - a strategy incorporated in the 1995-2000 National Development Plan.
This Plan recognizes that a sustained annual rate of economic growth in excess of five percent will
require total annual investment equivalent to 24 percent of GDP. Financing this level of investment so that
external saving become a healthy supplement to, and not a substitute for, domestic saving means that the latter
must increase progressively to at least 22 percent of GDP by the end of the century.
The investment process can go ahead only if the resources to finance it are available. In this regard, the
Government is aware that the goal of increasing investment has to be accompanied by development of adequate,
stable sources of savings. Bearing this in mind, and also the need of the population for well-paid jobs and rising
welfare levels, the Federal Governfnent has adopted the basic principle that domestic saving must become the
fundamental source of financing for national development, with external saving playing only a supplementary role.
In providing for this principle to be put into effect, the Government has determined that domestic saving can best
be increased through:
-      greater public sector saving, achievable if govermment finances are kept on a sound footing by
ensuring that both current and capital spending conform to criteria of social efficiency;
-      fiscal and taxation reforms that promote saving as opposed to consumption;
-      creation of financial instruments that afford savers both security and competitive retums;
-      strengthening of social security system funding mechanisms, and in particular, in the case of the
pension system, replacement of the pay-as-go scheme with individual capitalization.
Given the rapid transformation of Mexico's demographic profile, which signals a growing presence in the
population of those aged 65 years and over, reinforcement of the funding mechanisms supporting the social
security system takes on special importance as an effective means of stimulating domestic saving. Although
young people -36.2 percent at aged 14 years or under, according to the 1990 census - constitute a major
segment in the country's population pyramid, the ratio of retirees to the working population has grown steadily
and will continue to do so in the coming years. While there were four retirees for every 100 members of the work
force in 1960, by 1994 the ratio was 12.5 per 100. IMSS, the Mexican Social Security Institute, projects future
annual growth rates of 2.5 percent in number of contributors and 5.8 percent in number of retirees. While the
group of those over age 65 made up 5.7 percent of the total population in 1990, it is expected to grow at annual
rates around 3.6 percent up until the year 2050. This aging of the population is one of the most salient aspects of
anticipated demographic change, and poses a major threat to the solvency of the present pension system.
The legislative and regulatory framework for IMSS operations did not allow an adequate response to the
challenges posed by such demographic change. As became apparent from its actuarial balances, there was an
actuarial deficit which, if allowed to go unchecked, would within just a few years prevent the Institute from
covering its pension system obligations.
Among other factors contributing to the deteriorating financial position of the pension system was the fact
that system participants tend to regard their contributions as taxes rather than as authentic financial assets with a
savings purpose. This occurs because their IVCM* contributions go into a general fund and benefits paid are not.
commensurate with total contributions. As a result, there is a high incidence of evasion, which weakens the
system.
Another problem is that individuals who reach retirement age without ever having qualified in the system,
or who build up some senioritv but not sufficient to qualify, lose all rights in respect of their contributions.
Because the system is collective, under the present rules the longer workers are qualified in the system and the
more they have paid into it the smaller their pensions are compared to their total contributions. The almost
IVCM = invalidez, vejez, cesantia en edad avanzada, y muerte (i.e. disability, old age, severance and death).



ANNEX I                                                    CONTRACIUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 4 of S
complete lack of a proportional relationship between contributions paid in and individual benefits obtainable both
encourages evasion and penalizes major groups of workers, thereby undermining the concept of household saving.
In order to resolve this series of problems, draft legislation modifying the orientation and operation of the
social security system was submitted to Congress in November 1995, being enacted and put into effect the
following month. These events reflect the Government's determination both to raise standards of living and
promote pnvate savings.
The new pension system gives a central role to the worker, who will participate in decisions affecting both
system asset management and system supervision. Creation of entities with specialized expertise in asset
management should improve worker benefits, while an increased contribution from the Governmuent will ensure
that the new model is financially viable. The regulatory and supervisory authorities concerned are also to be
vested with new powers which will improve their capacity to oversee the system. In all, the new framework within
which the pension system is now to operate will give workers the benefit of greater transparency and
predictability.
Pension system reform will make a very important contribution to the development and modernization of
Mexico's financial system, while simultaneously the success of the reform will depend on the solidity of that same
financial system. The reform is thus closely linked with the financial strategy the Government has been following.
The capital development scheme under which worker contributions are to be invested will give greater depth to the
financial intermediation sector, while the resulting focus on long-term saving will create a market for instruments
with longer maturity dates. In order to ensure that the greatest volume of resources is channeled efficiently toward
the most productive sectors of the economy, the participation of the country's other financial intermediaries and
its regulatory and supervisory authorities will be vitally important. Accordingly, it is essential that steps be taken
to strengthen existing institutions and orchestrate a regulatory framework that provides adequate incentives to
reconcile maximization of yields on savings with assurances of security for savers.
Since it is clear that one of the essential pension system financing sources will be contributions to
INFONAVIT (Instituto del Fondo Nacional para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores), a central component of the
Government's strategy is to upgrade that agency's operating efficiency. As part of the process, steps will be taken
to promote greater transparency and predictability in this sector, and at the same time to increase the returns
workers obtain on their contributions in respect of housing.
The material now following provides further detail on the Contractual Saving Development Program, or
CSDP:
CSDP objectives
The key objectives of the Program are to:
-      establish a financially viable pension system;
-      promote transparency and predictability in the pension system;
-      ensure that the new system operates with greater efficiency;
-      ensure the equity of the system;
-      enhance the socially cooperative nature of the system by increasing the Government's
contribution;
-      ensure that workers' vested rights are guaranteed in the process of transition to the new system;
-      promote long-term domestic saving; and
-      support financial market development.



CONnRACruAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENr PROGRAM                                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
CSDP orinciples
The basic principles underlying the reform are:
management of individual accounts by specialized institutions;
recognition of the fiscal cost of the transition;
definition of a regulatory framework and supervision procedures to protect the rights of system
participants; and
introduction of a regulatory and institutional framework for employee savings and pension plans.
CSDP-related activities
The Federal Government is also committed to carrying out the actions enumerated in Annex II.
These policy measures will help extend and expand the transformation of pension contribution
systems.
Finally, actions connected with the capital market development required to guarantee the success
of the Contractual Savings Development Plan are also set out in Annex II.
Lic. Guillermo Ortiz
Minister of Finance and Public Credit






MATRIx OFPOLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
'.',.-.,.'.,;'.~~i'" ''"                                                                                                                            ''  9 ''- '.'''':'"''''.  "      '''"'  '  ' 
:a:-:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~7                                                                    777;--~     .....-   -   ..
'   '   -...:  '''  '''',-:  .-; C:V.:  R.   '    -.-:    :,- : 7:-'                                       77':--- :    : ' ':; ,
.                                                                                                                           b
Maintenance of a supportive           *  Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework              Afantenance of a sound macroeconomicframework
macroeconomic program.                    consistent with the policy objectives and program described  consistent with the policy objectives and program
in the Letter of Sector Policy.                           described in the Letter of Sector Policy.               3:
''A F    . .--                                      ......  ,.- ,. -...... :,:   :.M
Reform of the Old Age Insurance       On December 11, 1995, a new Social Security Law was enacted
System Reform the public PAYG pillar   to move from a Govermment pay-as-you-go, defined benefits
and shift toward private management of   scheme to a mandatory, defined contributions scheme
pension funds.                        permitting private management. The new system will be
implemented beginning on January 1, 1997. The key legislative
changes are, inter alia:
*  dividing the amounts currently collected for IVCM' into
two parts: (i) disability and life coverage (2.5% of base
salary) and (ii) retirement, severance, and old age (RCV)
amounting to 4.5%, which together with the contributions
to the SARW account of 2% of base salary and the "Social
Quota", will be transferred to individual accounts for each
worker (invested in shares of a SIEFORE). In addition, a
mandatory contribution of 5% of base salary will go into a
housing sub-account (INFONAVIT) and a tripartite quota
of 1 5% (employers, employees and the State) will be
allocated to a fund for health expenses of pensioners;
*  inclusion of transitory provisions including protection of
rights of existing affiliates;
*  explicit separation of accounts for health versus pension
services;
*  funding partially the minimum pension guarantee by a new
Govermnent contribution (Social Quota);
*  redefining the minimum pension (change indexation to   _
IVCM means coverage for disability, old age, severance and life insurance currently provided by IMSS.                                                         -
2 SAR means the Retirement Savings System.



MA TRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
~~~~~..         dH. .,,.,.............. -......                                      ............                                                ............
''''"'''"-"'"''"''''"''''"l-"'..........''"5"'''. ,...,    . ! l...
........N....                 OA  TO  S  XECEDDE N . .... 
.........                .......0.....l                                         ......TIO  THESEONDPHSOFTEPOW             M
CPI and eligibility from 500 to 1,250 work weeks);
*   imposition of new ceiling for retirement sub-account                                                                          N
contributions; and
*   introducing private competition for provision of annuities
under life and disability coverage and for old age under
new system.
.                                        .    B   B  . ..  .   -   .  3   ............................................ .... : X.: g .: X. . . . . . . _ . . .
D~RGLATORY RGIMt ORT  ADMJNSTAIONAND INVERSTMNTO ?ZSJN.FP
1. Regulation of Pension Fund             *   On April 26, 1996, the Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para   e   Satisfactory implementation of regulations (circulars)
Administrators (AFOREs)                     el Retiro was enacted and includes, inter alia, general          to make the new pension system operational
principles related to:
Introduce the legal and regulatory                 => entry and exit procedures for AFOREs, including
framework for AFOREs and SIEFOREs                       special authorization rules for financial groups
to make the new pension system                          with banks to establish an AFORE;
operational.                                       z   disclosure requirements;
= conflict of interest; and
=> AFOREs' and SIEFOREs' operating rules.
*   Draft regulations satisfactory to the Bank presented:
(a) by CONSAR relating to:
=>  eligibility requirements to establish AFOREs;
=>  commission and fee structure; -
=>  capitalization;
=> marketing; and
=> transfer of funds by account administrators and
investment management entities.
(b) by SHCP relating to:
=>  authorization of foreign ownership of AFOREs.
PR...R TO.E.FECTW.NES.
Issuance of above regulations.
.__ _ _ _ _  _  __  _  _  _ _  _  _          .._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  __  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _ ._     _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  __  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _



MATRIx oFPOICi ACTIONS                                                                       m
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
,, ,-.,--- .                                                                 ,---                    - - . - .- .-  ....  .....
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                         .-         . . . ...  .           -....  --   .    .   .  .-CYN  -HS  OF TIl. .....A
2. Investment Management Rules        *  On April 26, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para   *  Satisfactory implemtientation of r egulations on the  t
el Retiro was enacted. including inter alia general       investment managetmient regime                    |
Establish a sound regulatory system for   principles related to the investment management regime.
the investment of pension funds.                                                                  *  .Aidvance in the implementation oJ'actions to improve
*  Satisfactory draft regulations prepared by CONSAR          financial sector infrastructure, including:
governing the investment management regime, including.
=> asset allocation rules;                                 > Jurther developing the credit rating industry
=> permissible investment strategies for families of          and other financial information services; and
funds, including inter alia:                           => upgrading the regulatory and supervisory       Se
I. prohibiting investments in banks intervened by             policy framework ofAfexico 's securities
FOBAPROA; and                                             markets.
2. establishing specific restrictions limiting
investments in debt instruments of commercial
banks to 10% of total SIEFORE portfolio.
*  Finalized rules satisfactory to the Bank establishing
disclosure requirements, including: (i) formal provision,
at least once a year, of individual account statements to
contributors on the performance of their share in the
SIEFOREs and INFONA VTsubaccounts indicating the
balance offunds and rate of return: (ii) automatic
provision to contributors upon their request of the
information outlined on item (i); (iii) publication by
CONS.4R, at least twice a year, of a bulletin stating the
performance of individual SIEFOREs including asset
allocation, balance sheet, and income statement and
INFONA VIT rate of return compared to the SIEFOREs.
AC W.S1' TO,   T. "'N
*  Issuance of regulations governing the investment
management regime.                                             -,



MA4TRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
...   .....                                                 :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ....
SuPERVISION OF THE BEEOI~~MEI) SYSTEM                                             . .....................-...IA.
Strengthen CONSAR to ensure effective   *  On April 26, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para   *  Sati.actory implementation of the time-bound
capacity and of the regulations relating to
>  establishment of improved supervision scheme for  surveillance and inspection
CONSAR;
=> strengthening of its enforcement powers; and
>  strengthening of CONSAR's governance through
a reexamination of the Board's composition.
* Finalized draft regulations by CONSAR relating to
surveillance and inspection procedures.
* Agreed upon and initiated implementation of a time-bound
business program to strengthen CONSAR's supervisory
capacity, including:
r  developing methodology and supervision systems
(operating systems and software) for valuation of
eligible financial instruments;                                                                        N
' drafting of manuals describing responsibilities for
inspectors;-
=> developing and testing of a customized software to
detect trading irregularities;
=> developing and initiating training programs in the
areas of on-site inspections and off-site
surveillance systems;
>  implementing new operational scheme in
conjunction with IMSS;-
>  designing and implementing focused training
programs to upgrade capacity; and
>  preparing a statistical bulletin.
,      .                                                                                      |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MATRIX OFPoLIcyACTIONS                                                                       n
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
OJW~~CT1VE                       ACTIONS TAKRNfl~~I.R........... .                           .. .........1RIN
.^^S:...                      BOARI)  '1z,N, AT=              .                    SECOND XJLE          '     ROA.
_______  ___________It    ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
* ,,,  CA ,c,, TRANS    ITION'   't. .                                                                       ....:.--'.::':.'-''..''''.:''':
Evaluate and ensure the transparency of   *  Completed sensitivity analysis and satisfactory evaluation    *  Include in the 1997 Budget allfiscal costs associated
the fiscal cost of reforms.               of actuarial methodologies and data base; and             with the reform of the social security system;
Agreed to publish annually the actuarial income and   *  Publish updated projectionsfor later years; and
expenses for IVCM programs to make fiscal transition
costs explicit.
Transfer of retirement sub-accounts from   *  Having adopted transfer arrangements for accumulated  *  Actual migration of accounts out of Central Bank of
Central Bank to private investment        SAR balances (5/1992-96) from Central Bank to AFOREs      workers' having instructed the Central Bank to do so.
managers.                                 over a period of four years.
-  .J   A   :::                   .       .. .......: - - .
Minimize the fiscal cost and ensure   Initiated measures to improve the financial performance of  *   Improvement in the financial performance of
workers an adequate pension, by      INFONAVIT, including:                                           INFOV4 T'IT
assuring that funds invested in       *  initiation of a regular supervisory process by CNBV under
INFONAVIT achieve market rates of         procedures applicable to similar financial institutions; and
return, and the interest revenues are  *  publication by CONSAR, at least twice a year, on the
credited to workers' pension accounts.    performance of individual SIEFOREs and INFONAVIT.
,. STRENGTIENWNG 0   T    IMSS: $   'TS',AM      ..Y T            ,N:E  .                      'RAI:A'' 'FOR T'' W  ES'   ' ' ':.
Strengthen IMSS in its ability to manage  *  Legal and regulatory framework established for CONSAR,
account individualization, the            IMSS and INFONAVIT to use one number (that of IMSS)
enforcement of billing and collection to  to unify past SAR accounts and SIEFORE accounts and to
avoid evasioni, and provision of benefits.  interchange and reconcile account information for each
contributor;
*  CONSAR developed and issued circulars providing rules                                                            -
for identification of accounts and account transfers to
eliminate multiple accounts for individual contiibutors, to
individualize aggregated contributions of multiple
.ontnbutors. and to improkc transparenc- of the wi ,m.                                 .



MATRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
......  .. ...    ....TJ~PR0T                                  .ClO~XET,
*  Agreement signed between CONSARJSHCP and IMSS on
an action to improve the efficiency of the IMSS to ensure
overall implementation of the new operational scheme
including:
(i) updating IMSS database, and
(ii) strengthening the individualization of accounts.
Conduct public awareness campaign to   *  Initiated a public awareness campaign.                 Continue to develop materials and promotional efforts
bolster support for the reform and to                                                           to reach and explain to the average worker the
encourage participation in the new                                                               advantages ofproviding for his/her own retirement.
pension system.
L1~~~~ QMPZ  TAR flM~~~~~~~~... ......4. .. ....... ..           .....
S  McW Rk~~~~~~~~*M                                                                                      ...1.I.. .
Recapitalize the Banking System                                                              *  Continued progress in the implementation of measures
to accelerate the restoration of the soundness of the
Restore the Health of the Banking                                                                banking system.
System.
Reform of Savings Protection Scheme    *  Completed study to evaluate the current liability  *  Agreement on a plan to proceed with the phasing out
protection system and propose alternative more rational  of the savings protection scheme according to the
Reduce moral hazardfrom the current     schemes which would lessened the moral hazard effect.   study 's recommendations.
comprehensive liability protection.



MATRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation)
2  gg BB "' ' ' V'                       "S 'M                        ?$ I T ..'":                    6      'BB...  j.  AC,.-,. ~XFTJ.,  61
-~ . , L   6 ~   . ,  .  ,  :    ::,-6                                            . . . ....  .  .   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __.... .
Intprove the transparency of mutual     *  CNBV and CONSAR initiated review of the experience of   Develop a program aimed at modernizing existing mutual
funds operations and assure consistency     the mutualfunds industry over the past ten years, focusing   fund legislation and regulation, reflecting the review of
of regulation of mutualfunds with          in particular on issues of:                              past experience and consistencv with AFORE/SIEFORE
SIEFORES. => valuation of portfolio securities;                                                     regulation, including:
*  a more important role for independent directors on the
=  related-party transactions; and                      boards of investment companies,
=corporate governance.                              *  requirements for independent director approval of
affiliate transactions;
* valuation of portfolio securities by unaffiliated
parties;
*  steps to encourage the development of an independent
mutualfund management industry; and
*  more intensive supervision by the CNBV
6 -. - :: ' N    '   '   ' '   B L A N -,.      6     . .                     .:_                    6 _ - _ : _ - _, _ 6 _ - _ ._.. ... . . . .. - .
Establish supervisory authority for     *  On April 26, 1996 the Ley de Sistemas de Ahorro para el
voluntary pension funds which              Retiro was enacted providing for CONSAR to oversee
complement mandatory system                voluntary pension funds choosing to register with CONSAR
Deepen the insurance market for         *  Terms of reference agreed with CNSF and consultant       *  Complete studies
provision of annuities andfor life and      contracted to undertake study to review existing         *  Put in place the regulatory framework to modernize
disability coverages                        regulations and policies for provision of life and disability  existing regulations and policies for insurance
by insurance companies.                                     companies
.   X    ,   ..       '   6'.,-MRKE   .' :'-'. '''..'.-.'.:.:.                                    >
Deepen the insurance market for         *  On April 26, 1996 the Ley General de Institucionesy      a  Complete study and issue complementary regulations
provision of annuities.                     Sociedades Mutualistas de Seguros was enacted laying the    to meet the requirements of the amended law.
framework for the development and supervision of the
annuities market.
*  Terms of reference agreed with CNSF to carry out a study
of changes needed to the regulatory framework.



I



TEcHNICAL ASSiSTANcE NEEDS, TIAIET.IBLE, ,4ND SOURCES OF FINANCING
t                                                                                   g Mt  . ...   ... .    t   .. .   w , , ---- g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .   . . .   .
Implementation of                                  of presentations relating to pension reform and        -Oct 96         WB-
campaign relating to social security  2. Design of media and dissemination campaign, including workshops
reform                                and information sessions for affiliates                          Oct 96-Dec 97      Japan PHRD fund
Improvement of IMSS service delivery    Strengthening of IMSS to improve its efficiency in delivering the  Jan 96-Dec 98  IMSS own resources
services which remain under its responsibility, partictularly: supervision                                           i
of account transfers to AFORES; delivery of pensions to transitioni
generation opting for PAYG; delivery of disability and life insurance,M
and delivery of health services 
Addressing fiscal costs and fiscal    I. Validation of actuarial methodologies and of data base         Jan-Feb 96-       WB Loan preparation funds
transparency of reforms                                                                                                                                    o
2. Estimation of fiscal costs and proposal to ensure fiscal transparency   Jan-Apr 96  WB Loan preparation funds     I
Development of legal and regulatory   1. General support for the drafting of:                          Jan-Mar 96         WB Loan preparation funds
framework for Investment Management  a. the draft Ley de Coordinacion de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro
of Pension Contributions              (particularly in the areas of disclosure requirements and AFOREs
operating systems),                                                                 WB-FTAL
b. related regulations and circulares                            Apr-Dec 96
2. Regulations governing AFORE's commissions level and structure    Jan-Mar 96      WB-FTAL
3. Regulations governing AFOREs' comercializaci6n (e.g., regulations  Jan-Mar 96    WB-FTAL
on sales agents, etc.)
Strengthening of CONSAR to ensure     1. Development of methodology and supervision systems (operating  Apr-Dec 96        WB-FTAL
adequate account supervision          systems and software) for valuation of eligible financial instruments
2. Drafting of manuals describing responsibilities for inspectors  June- Oct 96     WB-FTAL
3. Design, develop, and implement customized software to detect  Apr-Dec 96         WB-FTAL
trading irregularities and audit trails relating to transactions
undertaken by investment management companies on behalf of
affiliates (to be coordinated with CNBV)
4. Training programs in the areas of on-site inspections and off-site  Apr-Oct 96   WB-FTAL
surveillance systems 
5. Development of actuarial standards and models to be used as well as  Apr-Oct 96  WB-FTAL
supervision techniques for actuarial work related to coverage offered
through the AFORES in coordination with IMSS and ISSSTE                               .._.._..__
6. Overall CONSAR human resource development through focused     Jan 96-Dec 98      WB-FTAL
training programs to upgrade capacity in the areas of financial analysis,           Japan PHIRD Fund
actuarial techniques, and special technical areas                _                  _



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE NEEDS, TIMETABLE, AND SOURCES OF FINANCINGC
7. Setting up regional CONSAR offices                          Apr-Dec 96        WB-FTAL & CONSAR own
resources
8. Develop capabilities and training programs to perform credit ratings  June 96-June 97    WB-FTAL
of issuers of securities bought by AFOREs and to rate banks                                                     o
Improve institutional capacity to   1. Evaluate experiences from different OECD and LA countries with    Jan - June 97  Japan PHRD Fund
increase regulation and supervision of   the reform of their pension systems.
private fund management             2. Draft recommendations on how to better implement the reform and
create a financially viable pension system.
Modernize the legal and regulatory  1. Drafting of new investment regulations for VPFs             Apr-Oct 96        WB-FTAL
framework for Voluntary Pension Funds  2. Design of new auditing guidelines for internal/external actuarial and
financial audits
3. Drafting of regulations for disclosure requirements
Prepare a quarterly statistical and  1. Design and produce the first version of the quarterly bulletin  Oct 96-Apr 97  Japan PHRD Fund
information bulletin                summarizing the new regulatory regime, initial list of AFORES,
capitalization levels, composition of pension funds and other financial
information.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Xx,.. ...,... ,. .. ...-......, '.-
Development of legal framework for  1. Finalize a study of changes needed in the legal framework for  Apr-June 96     WB-FTAL
annuities market                    annuities and                                                  Apr-Oct 96
2. prepare draft regulations
Development of legal framework for  CNSF needs to provide details                                  By Oct 96         WB-FTAL
pre-paid medical insurance plans    __
Modernization of Insurance Regulations  CNSF needs to provide details                              By Oct 96         WB-FTAL
and Supervision                                                                                                                                     i
.-. TUA J i  S   .......:  :                                                              ......
Improve the transparency of mutual  1. Review lessons learned                                      By Oct 96         Own resources (CONSAR-
funds operations and Assure consistency  2. Draft legislative changes to the Mutual Funds Law                        CNBV)
of regulation of mutual funds with
AFORE's funds
Development of domestic market in   Prepare an action program based on the results of the FSRL I study  By mid-96    WB-FTAL
asset-backed securities             identifying regulatory obstacles and legal impediments to asset  1
securitization                                                                                          .



fECIINIC4LAS511s'ANCE NEEDS, TIMET,4BLE, ANDSSOuI?cEs oF FIN4NNCfAIG
Arealdti vi                                           L      fd(an                                       iwri                 rr        i   ni'
.ADITJQNAL ?IN A                 A77 TROMINTS                                                                 - .    :                  .                       :         C
Strengthening of domestic securities     1. Evaluate and upgrade the regulatory and supervisory policy           Jan 96-..            WB-FTAL
markets                                  framework of Mexico's securities markets
2. Improve disclosure standards and ensure consistency with                                                                     E. 
international best practices,
3. Strengthen self-regulation by market participants
Strengthening of the credit rating        I. Evaluate anid improve credit scoring and disclosure niles.          June 96-...          WB-FTAL
industry                                                                                                                                                                  m
Deepening of domestic financial           I. Prepare studies on the role of financial and insurance markets in the   Sep 96-Dec. 97   Japan PHRD Fund
markets and development of the           success of the reform effort.
insurance market                         2 Evaluate and upgrade the necessary regulation based on the studies
recommendations.
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA






ANNEX IV
Page I of 8
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PENSIONREFORMAND ITS IMPACT ON THE DEvELoPMENT OF MEXICAN FINANCLiL MARKETS
Introduction
A major justification for developing a fully funded pension system in Mexico is that it will contribute
significantly to the development of the domestic financial system, which will increase the efficiency of the
allocation of savings, both those generated domestically and those resulting from capital inflows. There are two
aspects to financial system development. The first is increasing the diversity of financial institutions operating in
the market, and the second is deepening the market for financial securities. This annex describes the current state
of both elements of Mexican financial markets. The evidence shows that Mexico has relatively developed markets
for government securities, but that its institutional structure is, like most other major markets in Latin America,
bank dominated.
It can be expected that pension reform will ultimately lead to a much more diverse financial structure,
which, in turn, will lead to a deepening of financial markets. Evidence presented in this annex suggests that this
outcome can be realized if the Mexican government implements legal and regulatory reforms suggested in the loan
agreement. However, establishment of sound rules and regulations in themselves will not create deep financial
markets. Investor confidence in the legal and regulatory structure can only be built from practical experience of
operating in the markets under a variety of economic circumstances. This reform will get this process under way.
To discuss the impact of the introduction of pension funds on Mexican financial system development, the
annex reviews the relationship between institutional diversity and securities market development in Chile,
Germany, Japan, and the United States. The experiences of these countries indicate that an increase in
institutional diversity translates into securities market development only in those cases where a significant portion
of institutional investors are mutual funds and trust funds. Moreover, for financial markets to flourish, markets
need to have sufficient scale to provide liquidity for the securities held by institutional investors. Large pools of
investible funds do not automatically translate into large scale markets because achieving market scale also
requires a sufficient number of investors with diverse interests to maintain markets in securities under a wide
range of economic circumstances.
This implies that the Mexican strategy of creating mutual funds to manage pension contributions is a
necessary first step in developing broad markets for financial securities because these institutional investors will
potentially be active traders of securities. The market also is of sufficient size to generate liquidity. The remnaining
challenge is to provide adequate incentives for the development of a diverse investor base for securities. This
includes clarification of the legal standing of investors during borrower restructurings. In addition, investors must
gain confidence that the accounts provided by issuers are sufficiently transparent to permit a meaningfuil
evaluation of their financial prospects. Recognizing the importance of account transparency, the new Mexican
Pension System Law allows pension funds to invest only in securities rated by well recognized private rating
agencies and under the approval of the regulatory authority for the pension system (CONSAR). This would
provide incentives for borrowers wishing to access resources from pension funds to improve their accounting and
disclosure standards. The investment rules for pension funds currently prohibit investments in equities because
the authorities do not believe that there is insufficient market depth in most listed stocks. However, the presence
of a pool of institutional investment funds should provide impetus to improve the quality of the equity market so
that prohibitions can be removed as quickly as possible.
The annex is organized as follows. Section I provides an overview of the institutional structure of the
Mexican market compared to several industrial and other Latin American countries and of the depth of Mexican
financial markets. Section II analyzes the relationship between institutional structure and financial market depth
in several industrial countries. Section III considers possible investment strategies of Mexican pension fund
managers, given the current state of financial market development. It draws on Chilean experience in the 1980s in



ANNEX IV                                                    CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 2 of 8
reaching conclusions. Section IV discusses how Mexican financial markets are likely to evolve as pension funds
become important investors.
Section I. Structure of the Mexican Financial System
The structure of financial systems can be described from the perspective of institutional development as
well as from the perspective of market development. A discussion of institutional development encompasses the
number of different types of financial institutions operating in the market, their relative market shares, the types of
assets in which they invest, and the market structure within specific subgroups of institutions, such as banks and
insurance companies. An analysis of market development includes a description of the markets in which financial
instruments trade: the variety of assets traded and the liquidity of these markets as well as the volume of open
market securities relative to those intermediated by financial institutions.
Table I presents the ratio of liabilities of financial institutions as a percent of GDP for selected industrial
and Latin American countries at year end 1994. Depository institutions, defined as banks, savings banks,
cooperatives, and postal savings systems, account for most of institutional savings in Argentina and Mexico,
compared to Chile, Japan, and the U.S. In addition, the ratio of Mexican financial institution liabilities to GDP is
substantially lower than for Chile and the industrial countries but almost twice as high as the ratio for Argentina.
C__ ,,Aen --                           4
Mexico                  59                           12                 72
USA                     59                           64                 123
Japan                   247                          111                359
Germany                 231                          33                 264
Chile                   63                           32                  95
Argentina               28
Source: Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (Mexico), Federal Reserve System,
Balance Sheets for the U.S. Economy 1945-94 (US), Bank of Japan, Economic Statistic
Monthly (Japan), Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras Chile, Boletin
Estadistico Mensual S.A.F.P. (Chile) B.C.R.A., Estados Contables de las Entidades
Financieras (Argentina), IMF, International Financial Statistics.
Note: Depository Institutions include savings, thriffs and postal savings, and other
financial Institutions include trusts, mutual funds, insurance and pension funds.
Table 2 presents the structure of financial institutions operating in Mexico. It indicates that the Mexican
financial system is domninated by two major groups of institutions: the first is commercial banks, which had 52%
of financial assets held by institutions as of September 1995 and development banks, which had 24% of financial
assets on that date. The only other major group of institutions is brokerage firms, with 15% of total assets.
Institutional investors and fimds managers, including mutual funds and insurance companies, have very small
market shares with around 2 percent each. Within the comnmercial bank sector, the two largest banks hold about
40% of banking assets. It is also noteworthy that mutual funds and insurance companies together represented less
than 6 percent of financial institution assets in 1994.



CoNTRAcTuAL SAVNGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
D*c~ 1993    Det. 194        Sep 199.
Banks                              556677.9         799880.4        872553.8
%                                      50%              47%             52%
Brokerage Firms                    210813.7       399243.736        251656.7
%                                       19%             24%             15%
Development Banks                  195424.2       336487.852      409726.516
%                                       17%             20%             24%
Mutual Funds                          80481            61234          61611
%                                       7%                4%             4%
Insurance                           29650.5            35408       42236.121
%                                       3%                2%             3%
Others                            47911.357        61561.128      46072.9631
%                                       4%                4%             3%
Total                           1120958.686      1693815.116       1683857.1
%                                     100%              100%           100%
Source: Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores.
Note: Others include credit unions, factoring companies, warehousing companies,
bonding companies, exchange houses, and leasing companies.
The relatively large balance sheets of brokers suggests an active market for securities in Mexico. This is
confirmed by data in Table 3, which presents an overview of the depth of the market for traded securities on the
Bolsa in Mexico. Trading on the Bolsa, which until 1995 had been quite active, is dominated by fixed income
securities, and virtually all of these securities are liabilities of the government. The short-term securities are
mostly CETES, and the long-term securities are Mexican government development bonds, having maturities of
approximately two years. The market for government securities was, until 1995 rather large, with trading volume
relative to the size of the banldng system only slightly smaller than this ratio for the U.S. government securities
market.
. {-, X . . .h ............ ........
Equity total                                  203756    298646   219410.4
1%        2%         5%
Fixed income total                         127746617   1266276   2656972
Fixed Government development banks             88%        10%        55%
Bonos ajustables del Gobierno Federal       556673    633040   1220651
4%        5%        25%
Money market instruments                     1481820  11729041    1941269
10%       88%        40%
Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Federaci6n  1423428  11559534   1478099
10%       87%        31%
Total                    14432194  13293963   4817767
100%      100%       100%
In contrast, trading on the equity market is relatively thin. Volume is only a fraction of the volume in the
government securities market. Also, as indicated in Table 4, only 21 firms have a high degree of liquidity. In
addition, the stocks of about 20 Mexican firms are traded through American Depository Receipts in New York,
but volume is limited to a few firms.



ANNEX IV                                                    CONTRAcTuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 4 of 8
-t- :- .   . ' - -:. -.'. : '. '  . ! ! .X . '.  '.|... . . ''- '' t..'..:
Degree of Liquidity                               Number of Companies
High                                                        21
Medium                                                      32
Low                                                        59
Minimum                                                     78
None                                                       101
Intermediate Market                                        51
Total (Number of Companies Listed)                         342
Source:   Bcletin Bursatil, December 20, 1995, BMV
Note:     Degree of liquidity is measured by number of shares traded.
As indicated in Table 5, prior to 1995, Mexican private firms issued a substantial amount of medium and
long-term paper in the U.S. and Euromarkets. In 1993, these issues equaled 30 percent of the volumne of net new
credit provided by the banking system in that year. However, in 1994, new securities issues began to decline, and
in 1995, they fell to about 15 percent of their 1993 peak.
Bonds                                       1168   2933  4777   3581  1099
Shares                                      3580   3472  2307   1422    67
Total (A)                                  4748    6405  7084   5003  1165
Increases in net credit of financial system (B)    3225   30990  2380   52734   n.a.
(A)(B)                                         2   0.207      0  0.094
0.147          0.298      9
Source:   Comisi6n Nacional de Valores, Banco de Mexico.
Section II: Institutional diversity and securities market development: Industrial Country Experience
An important motivation propelling pension reform in Mexico is that the development of institutional
investors will provide an impetus for further development of financial markets. In this context a experience of
industrial countries have been very varied. This can be seen by comparing the experience of US and Japan, two
countries with much more diversified structures than other industrial countries (like Germany, for example, see
table 6). For example, while in the US institutional diversity has been associated with liquid and developed
financial markets, in Japan where trust and mutual fund institutional investors as well as large insurance sector
are present, money markets are dominated by banks, and there are no asset-backed securities markets or even
liquid corporate bond markets.



CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                 ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
Table:6. As es. f      F.i1cia. nstns: $eeral ndustrial   1nr(1994.-
. .;. ......(Percetof Totti Fnaudid.. h. st..itutnas  .........i .-:ts
_. ~~InstitDtfgm$.io:.  . 
Countrie  Baing &T s   Trustsd                -     an.  ::e-sion
.s       - ..         :            _ Mutualud.s   .-.e :- -: ml..s 
Germany          88%                ---           12%         ---      100
Japan            70%                14%           16%                   %
USA              45%               28%            6%         21%       100
100
s                                  ~~~~~~%
Resource: Deutsche Bundesbank, Monthly Report, Bank of Japan, Economic Statistics
Monthly, Federal Reserve System, Balance Sheets for the U.S. Economy, 1945-94.
Note: Japanese Postal Savings Assets are desegregated into deposits and insurance, and
they are accounted for in Banks & Thrifts and Insurance, respectively. Japanese
pension funds are included in trust and insurance categones.
Limitations of markets for securities in Japan compared to those in the U.S. is reflected in differences in
portfolios held by institutional investors across the two markets. As indicated in Table 7. a large portion of the
assets managed by institutional investors are loans and mortgages, whereas these instruments make up only a
small portion of the assets of U.S. funds managers.
Table. 7:. Ins ftitutonal Ptla    rs.'Ae .Ja.. & US- 1992
:    :   -fliuetiia  and .oeg          p<te          Loan............. :oa
Japan                32%                  23%           45%          100%
USA                  57%                  35%           8%           100%
Note: Loans include mortgages for both US and Japan. Bonds for both Japan and U.S.
include domestic and foreign issues. For Japan equities held by bank trusts and securities
investment trusts are valued at market price; for insurance companies equities are valued
at the lower of market price or acquisition cost.
For the U.S., equities are valued at market.
Source: Bank of Japan, Monthly Economic Statistics and US flow of Funds.
The difference in the structure of assets across the two markets is due to differences in the nature of the
funds management business in the two countries. In the U.S., the dominant funds managers are pension funds and
mutual funds whereas in Japan they are insurance companies and trust banks, In the U S. case, funds managers
must hold portfolios that can be sold because the ultimate investors, consumers and corporate human resource
directors. actively switch funds managers. In Japan, both trust banks and insurance companies sell annuity-type
investments to both corporate pension officers and to consumers. As a result, there is very little shifting across
fund managers, and these managers prefer to hold fixed income securities to meet their annuity obligations.
Hence, it appears that institutions stimulate financial markets development when they create a demand for
securities that can be traded.



ANNEX IV                                                              CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 6 of 8
Section III: The composition of Mexican pension fund portfolios
1.   Lessons from the Chilean experience
Mexico has chosen to create mutual funds as conduits for pension plan contributions.   Thus,
institutionally, Mexico will look more similar to the U.S. than to Japan. Does this imply that Mexico will move
rapidly to developed financial markets?  To analyze this question, the Chilean experience is relevant, since
Mexico, like Chile, is creating a funded pension system in which pension funds are held in mutual funds. As in
Chile, Mexican investors have the right periodically to switch funds among fund managers. The Chilean
experience indicates that fund managers will hold assets having secondary markets so they can meet these
demands relatively easily. In Chile, the most actively traded securities are central bank bonds, and in 1994,
Chilean pension funds held 39.4 perGent of their assets in these securities. In addition, they held 20.1 percent of
their assets in bank deposits and mortgage bonds backed by bank credit guarantees. (Table 8.)
Table 8: Assets of Chilean Pension Funds
(Percent of Total of Year-end)
Instrument    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
Financial
institutions total    71.3   73.4   53.4   56.0   56.3   48.7   49.7   50.1   39.2   33.4   26.8   25.3   20.6   20.1
Bank dep.& bonds
61.9   26.6   27.0   12.9   20.9   23.2   28.3   29.5   21.5   17.4   13.4   11.1    7.8    6.5
Mortgage bond
guarantee         9.4   46.8   50.7   43.1   35.3   25.5   21.4   20.6   17.7   16.1   13.4   14.2   12.9   13.7
Govermment
securities total  28.1   26.0   44.5   42.2   42.6   46.7   41.5   35.4   41.6   44.1   38.3   40.9   39.2   39.7
CentralBank      27.4    4.3   14.1   16.6   20.4   16.0   29.8   30.0   38.1   42.5   37.4   40.1   38.7   39.4
Treasury          0.7   21.7   30.4   25.7   22.2   20.7   11.7    5.4    3.5    1.6   0.9    0.7    0.5    0.2
Private
Companies total   0.6    0.6    2.2    1.8    1.1    4.6    8.8   14.5   19.2   22.4   34.9   33.8   39.7   39.3
Bonds             0.6    0.6    2.2    1.8    1.1    0.8    2.6    6.4    9.1   11.1   11.1    9.6    7.4    6.3
Stocks             0       0      0      0      0    3.8    6.2    8.1   10.1   11.3   23.8   24.2   32.3   33.0
Foreign
investment                                                                                               0.6    0.9
Source: Boletin Estadistico Mensual SA.F.P.
The fact that Chilean pension funds hold such a high percentage of their assets m bank deposits and
central bank securities suggests that markets in corporate paper and equity are relatively undeveloped. In fact,
there is almost no secondary market for corporate debt in Chile, and only a few firms, such as utilities, issue
bonds. In 1994, pension funds held only 6.3 percent of their assets in corporate bonds, down from 11 percent in
1991. In contrast, they increased their equity holdings rapidly in the 1990s; in 1994, equities equaled 33 percent
of pension fund assets. Further growth in equity may be constrained by limitations in the liquidity of the equity
market: equity trading is also highly concentrated, with the top five firms accounting for over 25 percent of the
trading volume. The Mexican investment rules currently prohibit equity investments, but, given the Chilean
experience, it does not appear that this constraint will really be binding over the next five years or so.
Table 8 indicates that in the early 1980s, shortly after the introduction of reforms, pension funds invested
almost 50 percent of their assets in mortgage letters of credit, which are liabilities of banks collateralized by
mortgage loans. Thus, the pension fund had recourse to the bank in the event that mortgages were in default and
had recourse to mortgages in the event that the bank went into default. This was a period in which the banking
system was being restructured so the double guarantee protected the pension funds to some degree from banking
system risk, although the state of the economy at the time suggests that real estate collateral was risky as well.
Nonetheless, fortuitous economic developments resulted in ex post high real rates of return on these securities.
It is possible that Mexican pension fund managers will follow a similar pattem. They will seek out the
deposits of the best capitalized; that is, those where most capital is Tier I capital banks. Although the
capitalizaton ratios of the remaining banks appear strong, a large portion of this capital (about 25 percent) is
subordinated debt, either provided through government programs or through private infusions resulting from loan
sales programs supported by the government. Banks that are highly dependent on the government to meet capital



CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                 ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
requirements may not be attractive investments for pension fund managers who would lose their own capital if
these banks could not pay depositors. Of course, if deposits held by pension funds were covered by deposit
insurance, fund managers would not be concerned about bank quality. However, to provide incentives for pension
fund managers to monitor bank risk and encourage banks to hold conservative portfolios, the Mexican
government will, in the future, remove insure coverage from these deposits. In the interim, investment rules place
severe restrictions on the ability of pension funds to purchase bank liabilities.
Unlike Chile in the early 1980s, Mexico enters pension reforn with a fairly active government securities
market. This suggests that pension funds will, in fact, invest mostly in government paper in the early years.
As mentioned earlier, the financial rules governing investment powers of pension fund managers, imply
that paper can only be purchased if it is rated. Thus, if an issue's rating falls below that which is permissible, all
pension fund managers must sell. Unless there are other investors with sufficient funds to enter the market for
this paper, the price of downgraded paper would fall dramatically, causing substantial losses for funds managers.
Thus, an additional challenge for Mexican authorities is the development of markets for distressed assets in order
to avoid relying on regulatory forbearance so that downgraded assets can be disposed of in an orderly manner.
Pension funds will not be able to purchase equities. Given the Chilean experience, this temporary
prohibition is probably sensible. In Chile, the number of firms that are large enough and whose stock is liquid
enough for pension fund investment is quite small. As a result, all pension funds hold the same stocks, and these
stocks trade at a substantial premium to the rest of the market. The Mexican stock market is currently not very
liquid as well, (see table 5). A change in the fortune of one of these companies could have the same result as a
change in the rating of a debt instruments.
Section IV: Future developments in Mexican capital markets
As pension funds expand in Mexico, will this create opportunities to strengthen capital markets that are
not available now? Mexico has several advantages over other Latin American countries. First, the market, with
almost 90 million people, is far larger than any other Latin American country except Brazil. Second, many
Mexican companies had access to U.S. and Euromarket capital markets before 1995. If these finns can return to
these markets, international investors might provide the liquidity needed to prevent sharp drops in the price of
securities that pension funds must sell when an issue's rating falls below that which is permissible.
The U.S. experience demonstrates the importance of having investors that can move into securities that
institutional investors must sell when ratings or perfornance of the issuer declines. For example, when mutual
funds and institutional funds specializing in junk-grade debt materialized, U.S. insurance companies could
increase their investment in marketable fixed income securities.  Before a market for distressed securities
developed, insurance companies held private placement bonds in which investor risk was controlled through
covenants.
Neither a market for distressed securities nor a pool of funds for private placement bonds has yet
developed in Mexico.
An important reason why there are markets for distressed securities for U.S. companies, and not Mexican
companies, is that the U.S. legal environment ensures holders of junk bonds that their interests will be considered
in bankruptcy and restructuring situations, which is not yet the case in Mexico. The market for distressed
securities issued by most developing countries is relatively small because, investors lack confidence in their legal
procedures. Hence, when ratings change on these issues, prices fall drastically relative to similar rating changes
on securities issued by U.S. firms. The Mexican Government is undertaking legal and regulatory reformns to
protect outside investors during corporate restructurings.
A similar problem may also constrain the development of asset backed securities markets. In the U.S.
government-related agencies issue mortgage-backed securities. These securities are guaranteed by the issuing
agency, which in turn has a credit line to the U.S. Treasury. However, to ensure timely payment of principal and



ANNEX IV                                                   CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 8 of 8
interest, the issuing agency holds a reserve that is calculated based on late-payment experience and default rates
on the underlying mortgages. Since these factors can be determined fairly accurately, the agency does not need to
draw on its credit line. Investors are fairly certain that if the credit line must be used, it will be used for small
amounts and for relatively short periods.
In contrast, in Mexico, if a government-related agency provided a guarantee for a mortgage-backed
security issue, investors would not have a clear idea of how much of the guarantee would have to be used. If it
were sizable, the agency might be unable to draw on its government credit line. Thus, before this market can
expand, a reliable credit history must be developed, which will take time. Evidence that this confidence cannot be
built over night is again provided by the Chilean experience, where mortgage-backed securities are still created
with a credit guarantee from banks. The Mexican Government is restructuring the major housing lender
INFONAVIT so that investors can evaluate the credit history of Mexican mortgages.
Conclusion
Creating mutual funds for pension investment is only a first start to building deep capital markets in
Mexico. The Mexican Government is undertaking reforms to encourage the development of credit performance
records and to encourage improved supervisory procedures in the allocation of credit. It is also reforming the
legal structure to protect bondholder rights in restructurings. As a fuither step toward the development of capital
markets, the Government need to encourage the development of private placement bond and long-term loan
markets similar to those used by insurance companies in the U.S. and institutional investors in Japan. Developing
an annuity market, while an important part of the overall strategy, will have a limited contribution in the near term
because of the relatively young age structure of the population.
The Government must also ensure that the bank restructuring effort is successful, as banks are likely to
be a desirable avenue of pension fund investment in the private market while the market for non bank private debt
securities is being developed. This implies rapid replacement of subordinated debt with new equity and assurance
that banks only extend the maturity of loans through the UDIS program that have a fair chance of paying off in
the long run.



AN?EXV
Page 1 of 32
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ESTIM4TION OF FISCAL COSTS OFPENSIONREFORA1
A. INTRODUCTIONANDASSUMPTIONS
The current pensions system administered by the Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano
del Seguro Social-LIfSS) is a defined-benefits system, which means that a given scheme of retirement benefits is
funded by a contribution out of salary based on those benefits. This means that the Institute must generate
actuarial reserves to meet its obligations for future pensioners. In the past, under an scenario of high rates of
growth of the registered population and rising real wages, it was possible to offer workers attractive retirement
conditions.
The abundance of resources meant that part could be devoted to provide other social services (such as
sickness and materity insurance) to the general population. However, this gradually weakened the IMSS's
financial position. In addition, the radical change in the population pyramid reduced the ratio between active
workers and pensioners, further worsening the IMSS's financial position.
In light of this situation, the pension system has evolved into a pay as you go system. This means that
virtually no actuarial reserves are generated and the contributions of the active population serve to fund payment
of the current obligations.
Deficit or Surplus of Cash Flow by Type of IMSS Insurance
(Million of Pesos)
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  . .,...'...,-............
BB : , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   '..       .    .   :^.:.n.  . .   W,,......     .
WKAu7'              0            398           0             0
(227)        (2,007)      (1,661)      (1,145)
lVcM:        .      .B--,,:(325)   613          595            0
936           996         1066          1,210
'ThtaI~~    384            0            0            65
Source: Unidad de Planeaci6n del IMSS
The refonm of the Social Security Law (effective January 1, 1997) took place just in time to prevent
collapse of pensions financing in the next few years and the accumulation of pressures on government that would
have culminated in a serious fiscal deficit, tax and contribution increases and bouts of inflation. As the following
actuarial balance sheet shows, the disability, old age, severance and life pensions system (IVCM) was deeply in
deficit. The actuarial deficit represented 15.80% of the contribution base wage of the current and fiture
generations of workers. This means that in order to achieve financial equilibrium it would have been necessary to
raise the social security contribution rate from the 8.5% in effect until then to above 15.8% of salary.
I This Annex has been prepared bv the Mexican Government and reflects joint (Government/Bank) understanding of the fiscal costs
involved.



ANNEX V                                                    CONIAcTUAL SAVINGS DEvELoPmET PRoGRAm
Page 2 of 32
Actuarial Balance as of December 31, 1994
IMSS - IVCM
(in N$ 1,000,000,000)
....U,..........................I .......
RESERVES TO DEC-31-94              3.25   P.V. OF PENSIONS DUE TO BE PAID   96.93
PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE                  P.V. OF FUTIlRE CONTRIBIMONS.
CONTRIBUTIONS
Quotas & Contnb.   179.74              Present Generation   1,017.40
New Generations   503.93               New Generations   1,373.21
683. 67          TOTAL                    2,487.54
TOTAL INCOME            686.92      TOTAL EXPENDITURE              2,487.54
Source: Farell Actuarios Asociados, S.C., December 31, 1994
The new Social Security reform implies both widening and redefinition of the social security costs to be
borne by govermment. Four areas can be distinguished in analyzing firture costs:
Cost of government contributions to the pensions scheme: social quota and contributions prorated
to salary,
T Transition cost (recognition of acquired rights and ongoing pensions);
* Cost of the minimum pension guarantees; and
1992-1996 SAR debt (retirement and housing sub-accounts). This debt will reach approxinately
N$50,000 million (USD$ 6,600 million) by the first quarter of 1996 and will have to be paid to
pensioners over the next 30 years.
To calculate fiscal costs and cunulative savings in individual accounts it was necessary to get a series of
prior estimates and to define demographic and financial variables.
Al. ESTIMATE OF CONTRIBUTING POPULATION
The first step was to estimate the future population which would enroll in the IMSS scheme. Since the
IMSS does not publish this kind of information, it was decided to use demographic projections prepared recently
by two of the best demographers of Mexico for the Luis Donaldo Colosio Foundation. The data contain
projections of economically active population (EAP) and the proportion of workers enrolled in the IMSS.
Preliminary numbers provided by CONAPO (Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n) and used in these projections
shows that, in the long run, the number of population affliated to the IMSS as a proportion of a EAP will grow
from 28% to 38% by 2031.
The proportion of the EAP contrbuting to the IMSS was assumed
to follow growth rates according to CONAPO 's estimates.



CoNTRAciuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                        ANNEX V
Page 3 of 32
Assumptions: Insured/EAP Ratio
38% -----------------------.....------------
34%    - ----- ------ - -- --- - -- - -- -X
3 2 %   -- - -         _-             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -__-__- -__- -__- -_- -__- -__  _  __  __ _
30% seon  s    was to know the contributors _ distribution in terms of age. For the transition popula----
this was obtained us  _ _g _ the_I_S _ tables_of _umber_ of_a__i_iates_(1982_-1993),_ which_are broken_ down_by age._The
Theag d strbo of th cotrbutin popuato  wil chng as co  of new entrants age.
A  end trant as to ageteotibtr distribution isasmeiobntesm   throughout the. projtetastion period.io
The byS birometrgica basews provbidhed fobec age/ontibutiovng tameraogpesto the probablitie ofatay winche
actisvewrker popullert-ervration.adaloo pesonin (ndwenrodages, IfS'Ae oredisbiliy iSuance) for nexample,afor was
worer.Ti tagled3 wiho6weas  o   Scnnuin  tinw that             theant  prbailt ofdmi d  taking pensio is Xer  anddth
prbblTye ofe dstayingtion the sytem1hoe yearbuin (ouatind therfor mohangea iunction the agew 38/7rcntriuts years.
couplet)    trai s Y. Th e staprobabiltie mtix wass appled to beahe   generatironghoft worer trojestimat ther umbrdo
The IMSS daomtaica beased trovasdertain tea poabecotiitiesof remainingin the systemandlithoes of leayvingth
thiie systems powingatorciptaof alof pension.n A(worer may intade, howeeor, lesavelithe systrnem. boreausele, for shai
disount aed e7wih yer6ic yearsions areS mutuallyt ecuing evewntsa (recep pofailt onean pension prclds receipttof
aohr,teprobability of     atyn n  indviua leavingmor   thea (acdtivewrkefore  forina resntother tane re/7ceipt of penrsio
isplt give bY. The opeetaofth probabilities ofri eachosh li vns2B applying ahgeeaiofwokr toi probmabltites nmatrixf
t he numbe ofprostataa dro oute tofacrantepoailte frmiigi the system for eache of thlcuesctevwsesiatd
the ystm oing o rceithef  prnsob.Ablte wofkernmaying,teavingevr,lev the worke force      e rhei
and logramemainin in the systorem wubere assme toe beS ianvarableovry thegiensure proections pherifod.haetob
dsorThIMSdtisued eahyaoic     dee rmiosae mthnumberl o exldnew eentrns (rcintof the sysemsiby chronologica agce.po
Tis gives ayth comlumnetor whoe prowsbicorrespond tahof the vlariou ages(5thog By appars). this wroabiiis mappidtoi
ascertain the number of workers contributing to the 1:MSS for the first time beginning in January 1997 anld the
form of the matrix of post-reform entrants and of workers that contribute only under the new system. The
2 Pr(exit) = 1.S Pr (claim evenLt).



ANNEX V                                                    CONTRACIUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 4 of 32
entrants matrix gives the figure of affiliates of a given age in year t minus the fraction of entrants of year t-l aged
one year less that continue to work.
The probabilities underlying the entrants matrix are assumed to remain constant
over the projection period. It is assumed that the new entrants are workers
that have never contributed to the IMSS before.
Work risks insurance is dealt with in the accounts as a separate item from age, severance, disability and
life insurance. In the various branches of the economy there are cases whose premiums are zero, i.e., because of
the work they do they are not taken into account for this type of claim event.
Work risks insurance probabilities have been recently available for this model.
These probabilities are much lower than those for disability and life insurance
that were used before as substitutes for this information.
A3. WORKERS' SALARY ESTIMATION AND FINANCIAL HYPOTHESIS
The wage of a person of a given age was determined by using the data for average salary history, i.e. the
average age/salary couplets recorded by the IMSS for a given year. These amounts are expressed in number of
times the general minimum wage. The available data comprised the salary histories reported for 15 years (1977-
86 and 1990-94). To these observations a curve was fitted using a polynomial to describe the average salary
history of IMSS members.
Average salary history expressed as number of times the minimum wage is constant
throughout the projection period but it is assumed that the minimum wage rises in real
terms in accordance with ourfinancial hypotheses
Financial hypothesis:
 Real interest rate was assumed at 3.5% throughout the projection period. Assumption on returns are quite
conservative given that the average real interest rate between 1983-1995 in Mexico was almost 9% real (as it
is shown in the following graph as well as the observed rates) and Chile's AFP system obtained real returns of
14% between 1982 and 1994.
*  For sensitivity purposes in the model, we have chosen to assume an even lower real inteest rate for some
scenarios: 2%. Lower remns mean lower savings in an individual's account and a higher probability of
requiring the guaranteed pension from the State.



CCNTRACIuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                       ANNEX V
Page 5 of 32
Assumptions: Real Interest Rate
35%
10%
1-5% .-_---    - _ I----.- ., ------------- 
_5%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .   __. ..
0   O)  ,,       0 _ _         -S  -C    - -   -
.   Observed -*- Average ...  Assunption
* GDP growth assumptions imply a modest recovery for the next six years (less than projections made
by the Ministry of Finance) in order to start with a conservative scenario. Growth after 2000 becomes
stable but below the rates observed during the 1970's in Mexico.
Note These ass s ae fg p
5 $  | | 772               10.51
.  . I n W 7     ~2.5             10.71
|   |  . < g   3                  1    1I
.  E   . . E      ~       ~3               1 11
0    I #   . . g   ~3.5          r1
Note: These assumptions are for modeling purposes only and can not be talcen as official forecasts on the sul*ect



ANNEX_   V                                                            CONTRACTUAL SAViNGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAm
Page 60of32
Assumptions: Increase in Real GDP
10  .   - --, .....................................................I................... ........... .     ..........
8                      - - -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  -
6                      - - - - -  - - -  - -  - - - - - - - ----     -
4
f' 2-1/A    v                              t
c2 -2-  - 
62  ---------r----  -- ----------- 1---------------------
-8 ---.~- -.-.-------           ---------         ----    -    _ ------ ----
-6
-8   -- .  -     5- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --. - - - --  --
aw 0 C')   C   )   aN    Oc  0)                C -       C7       0)  oN
~- r~  co      co      0)   a,   a,ooo
- -   -            -          -.     .-_N    N    N   N   N
--- Observed --a- --- Assunrption
. For wages, recent observed data show an enormous variance in their real growth. In addition,
minimum wages and wages resulting from  bargaining between workers and firms (basic salary for
contributions) have evolve differently in real ternis since 1988. The best example are wages in
manufacturing. As a result, different assumptions were made on real growth for the minimum wage
and for contractual salaries. For contractual salaries, real growth rates are the ones in the following.
Real increase in contractual salaries for the projection period are modest and possible under GDP's
real growth assumptions.
Assumptions: Increase in Real Salaries
15%
0%                    A
-5%    .  --  --      0  t   \  >--              -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -   -  -  -  - -  -
I0        -----------
-25%
0   C')  rD  0)  Off  mA)  0)  st -     o   0c'))N  ItL)0                       ~        0 _
-|-Minimum         --- Assumption          -Manufacturing
* For the minimum wage there are two series of assumptions on their real evolution. We have decided
to consider a low inflation environment and a high inflation environment. When inflation is high,
minimum wages flll deeply and have a slower recuperation.



CoNTRACTuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPME NT PROGRAM                                                      ANNEX V
Page 7 of 32
.   ... ..... ...~             .:
-21.05%                  -21.05%
-6.15%                   -15.86%
99         |         g0..                   .S t ..   : .-3.28%  -9.42%
-0.86%                   -3.85%
-0.89%                   -3.25%
-0.90%                    4.17%
0.0%                     -3.36%
1.42%                    -1.71%
1.42%                    0.45%
*4..::......
Note: These assumptions are for modeling purposes only and can not be taken as official forecasts on the subject
Inflation is speciallv important for the old IVCM system, since those pensions were computed taking
the average of a worker's nominal wages in the previous 5 years. In a high inflation environment we
can expect fiscal costs due to acquired rights recognition to fall. Inflation assumptions are as follows:
52.0%                     52.0%
30.0%                     45.0%
22.0%                     38.0%
1BssB.BB.9R$BBj S in;16.0%                   30.0%
12.0%                     24.0%
11.0%                     20.0%
.OO~       9.0%                      19.0%
6.0%                      17.0%
6.0%            _        _10._0%
. S',0.S.Bm"' ':'.......                     .........
Note: These assumptions are for modeling purposes only and can not be taken as official forecasts on the sumbject.
-   IMSS data shows contrbution density is in average 0.83 for its affiliates. This means that for each
period of time the effective contribution period is only 83% of it. Years of service and contributions
are affected in the model by this density factor.
* Finally, we have to address the issues of operation costs. The AFORES will be private firms whose
only source of income will be commissions charged to their affiliates. Experience from Chile and Peru
points out that commissions (excluding disability insurance premiums) can reach 2% of workers
wages. Therefore, we have assumed that commissions charged by the AFORES to the workers will be
equivalent to 2% of covered wages. This amount will not accumulate in the individual account.
A4. GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PENSION SCHEME
The rates of contribution the government is required by law to make to the new pensions scheme are as
follows:



ANNEX V                                                          CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 8 of 32
Socia quotas per woMrker:r 5. EOfe I .basic salary of December, 1996, iudexed by INPC.|
Proportonal uota: 0.425% of the worker's salary.
Proportional quota: 0. 125% of the worker's saliv. 
*  The cost of the prorated contributions the government is required to pay for (a) retirement, age and severance
and (b) disability and life insurance is negligible.
*  The social quota is the largest cost item among government contributions to the new pensions system. Its cost
will be close to 0.3% of GDP in 1997 and will remain steady at that level over the first nine years of the
reformed system. After that it will decline under the impact of GDP growth, which will predominate over that
of growth in number of workers.
The following graph depicts how total cost practically coincides with social quota cost owing to the
insignificant level of prorated contributions cost.
Fiscal Costsas%cfGC
Q.
Q30
Q5,
1 w S   ~ ~  ~    ~~           --  --- --       -- ------------ ---------
Qi
0                                                                  
QOr
7             1      8
SU c'ial Qat;a   U Thxxriaoal CctribLii         El Tcial



CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                ANNEXV
Page 9 of 32
A5.   TRANSITION
The transition group comprises three categories of workers:
1.    All workers that at the effective date of the reform (January 1, 1997) were active and
therefore acquired rights during the effectiveness of the previous law.
2.     Persons that contributed to the IMSS at some time but were not active at the effective
date of the reform and may later begin to contribute again.
3.    Persons that were receiving an IMSS pension prior to January 1, 1997.
When the time comes to take their pension, the persons in categories I and 2 may choose between the
pension due to them under the new individual accounts system and applicable to them under the old law. Those
for whom the previous system would have been preferable will receive that pension together with the balance on
their individual accounts and when this is exhausted the government will provide the necessary sums. In the
model, workers compare the net present values of each flow of payments (IVCM v. programmed withdrawals)
choosing the highest.
Modeling people with acquired rights who currently are not contributing but can return to the systen is an
issue lacking of a proper actuarial model in Mexico. The IMSS has no model or estimated probabilities in this
area.
A6.   CURRENT PENSIONS
Pensions in course of payment will be deemed to mean those being paid by the IMSS up to December 31,
1996. Beginning when the IMSS's reserves are exhausted, which will happen during the second year, the
govermnent will assume responsibility for financing them. The margin of reliability of these estimates is all the
greater in that:
T his is a closed group, i.e. its population does not grow over time;
The number of pensioners and the amount of their pensions at the end of 1995 is known
and it is necessary to estimate only the number of persons that will take pension during
1996. By 1995 its cost was close to 0.4% of the GDP;
These persons are not affected by the interest rate since they lack individual accounts and
their pension is funded entirely out of fiscal resources.
The estimates are, however, affected by the real growth in the minimum wage since by law their pensions
have to be indexed to that variable. Since this is a closed group with an average age higher than that of categories
1 and 2, their population will disappear after a couple of decades.
A7. ROLE OF THE HOUSING SUBACCOUNT (INFONAVIT)
Contributions to the Housing Subaccount, 5% of the worker's salary with a ceiling of 10 times the
minimum wage, are managed by INFONAVIT. INFONAVIT operates a points systm to determine which
contributors are entitled to apply for a housing loan. For loan beneficiaries, the savings on this Subaccount serve
as down payment to acquire a dwelling and they will be required to repay the rest of the loan through deduction
from their salaries and future employer contributions. This means that there may well be workers who at the time
they go on pension have a zero balance on this Subaccount.
Moreover, workers who do not receive a loan are entidtled to withdraw the balance of the housing
Subaccount at the time they take their pension. Prior to 1992 INFONAVIT paid very negative real rates to these
funds; since the 1992 reforms, however, it has been able to offer real rates close to zero. As and when the 1992
reforms bear fruit, the Housing Subaccount resources can be expected to earn positive real interest rates.
The decision to finance rights acquired under the old pensions scheme through the housing Subaccowmt is
not available since a worker currently receives his or her IVCM (or working risks) pension plus the contributions



ANNEX V                                                    CONTRACiuAL SAViNGS DEvELPMENT PRoGRAm
Page 10 of 32
to INFONAVIT. Nevertheless, the new CONSAR Law contains an article that establishes that contributions to
INFONAVIT prior to 1997 must be refunded to the worker, but INFONAVIT contributions from 1997 onwards
will be considered part of the individual account and must be surrender to the State if benefits under the old
pension system are choosen.
In view of all these facts transition costs for the transition population must be computed considering
different scenarios (under low and high inflation environments):
Scenario 1.- INFONAVIT funds can be used to finance acquired rights. From 1997 to 2004 these funds receive a
0% real return and a 3.5% real return from 2005 to the firture. All other funds receive the interest rate
of 3.5% real.
Scenario 2.- INFONAVIT funds can be used to finance acquired rights. Nevertheless, these funds receive a 0%
real return throughout the projection period. All other funds receive the interest rate of 3.5% real.
Scenario 3.- INFONAVIT funds can not be used to finance acquired rights (Congress rejects the article
mentioned above). All other funds receive the interest rate of 3.5% real. Since new generations do
not have acquired rights on INFONAVIT funds, this scenario does not apply to them. For
presentation purposes for them we will include the results from scenario 1 (the MPG) on tables
belonging to scenario 3 for transition population.
Scenario 4.- INFONAVIT funds can be used to finance acquired rights. Nevertheless, these funds receive a 0%
real return between 1997-2004 and 2% after 2004. All other funds receive the interest rate of 2%
real.
A8. FISCAL COST OF ACQUIRED RIGHTS RECOGNITION
Before looking at the estimation results it is convenient to point out that this exercise is not assuming a
fixed contribution period for transition workers. The length of the contribution period for a worker depends on
the probabilities of pensioning (having an accident or retiring). In consequence, some workers will leave the
system earlier if they suffer an accident. When reaching the age of 60, probabilities of retirement become
positive, nevertheless there will be workers still active even if they are 65 or more. Today, IMSS pensioners show
an average contribution period of 22 years, so, applying current probabilities our transition population will have
the same average period of contributions (some under the Old and some under the New Law, depending
individual's age).
.& RESULTS OF FISCAL COSTESTIATIONS
Results are the following for each scenario:
* Ongoing pensions (PCP) are very sensitive to the inflation enviromnent assumed and more specifically to
minimum wage real increases since these pensions are indexed to it according the old Law. Under low
inflation assumptions (Projections Series B), ongoing pensions cost represents 0.39% of 1997 GDP.
Afterwards they decline and by 2030 ongoing pensions have a cost of 0.015% of the GDP.
* Assumning high inflation (Projections Series A), hence negative real growth i  minimum wages, ongoing
pensions cost decrease to 0.35% of 1997 GDP. This cost fades out during the projection horizon and by 2030
it represents 0.014% of the GDP.
Scenario 1.- acquired rights recognition (DER.ADQ.) are very sensitive to inflation due to two factors. The first,
pension amount is computed with the average wage, nominal terms, for the last 5 years of contributions. Second,
it is indexed to the minimum wage. Hence, acqtured rights recognition cost in a low inflation environment reaches
a peak above 0.2% of the GDP in 2026, while this peak is only of 0.1% in 2022 if inflation is high. For the first 3
years of the new system recognition cost sums 0.05% of the GDP.



CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                       ANNEX V
Page 11 of 32
TRANSITION COST. SCENARIO 1
0.40%
0.35%       ---
0  .3  0%     --  - --  -  - --  -  - - - -  - - - -
0.30%                 i--+- DER.ADQ.1B
0.25%            ---------------------------________
--PCP lB
0.20%  __------------                                          FDR. ADO. IA
0.15%  ----- -----        ------------i-;9-DE.ADQ-1
..  PCPIA
0.05%     ' ;--------_ 
0.00%
- N   N   N   CN  N4  a   N   CN N N
Scenario 2.- In this case, INFONAVIT fimds earn a real interest rate of 0% all over the projection horizon,
inducing higher a fiscal cost than in the previous scenario. For the high inflation enviromnent, recognition costs
have their peak in 2020, reaching 0.34% of the GDP. With low inflation the maximum cost comes by the year
2025, when it is equal to 0.52% of the GDP. For the first 3 years of the new system recognition cost sums 0.05%
of the GDP.
TRANSITION FISCAL COST. SCENARIO 2
0.600%
0 .5 00%  ---------- ---- -- - - - -- - -
-.-DER.ADQ. 2B
a.-- PCP 28
DER.ADQ.2A
.--PCP 2A
0.200% --~-----s'_____ .. ----------2A
0.100%                           ---------------
0.000%
YEA R
Scenario 3.- In contrast with the previous scenario, here INFONAVIT resources are not available for finding
acquired rights. In consequence, fiscal cost is the highest. For the first 3 years of the new system recognition cost
sums around 0.2% of the GDP. With low inflation, fiscal cost reaches its peak by 2026 in 0.80% of the GDP,
while a high inflation environment contributes to keep this cost below 0.39% of the GDP in the year 2020 when it
is in its maximum.



ANNEX V                                                     CONRACrUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 12 of 32
TRANSITION COSTS. SCENARIO 3
1.000%    ------
0.800%
o  0.600%
O-'0  C~  (0  O~  ('.4  L   (         V  I-  0
S~O   00   40 0% .   ;-.  i-  i. RN  -  -    '--- 
0) 0   0   0   0 0   0     0   0  00   a
-  N   N   N   N'  N   N   N   N   N  N   N
YEAR
--DEP.A DQ. 3B           PCR1P3B    B         D2 ADQ.3A  ....* PCP3A
Scenario 4.- Here we are assuming that real interest rate is 2% for all funds, except for INFONAVIT in the
period 1997-2004 when it is 0% real. For the first 3 years of the new system recognition cost sums almost 0.1%
of the GDP. When inflation is high, the peak is reached in 2023 and equals 0.19% of the GDP. With low inflation
the cost is higher and its maximum equals % 0.4$ in the year 2027.
TRANSITION COST. SCENARIO 4
0.450% -
0.400% a       -     -     -      -
0.350% ---                             -
X  0.300% -                               - ---
a  0.250%  ---- ;.-                            ---
C  0.200% .-.- -.
0. 150%-
0.100%                                         ------
0.050%                                         --- ---
0.000%    I                    i i
a-    O     (0  a) (D  tl  0 -            N   0
a)  0   0   0   0   '   -4'C(N  (NN  (l)
- N   N   N   N   N   N   N   C   N   N   N
YEAR
|     +DER. ADQ. 4B-   PCPP4B  ...  DER. ADQ. 4A    XPCP 4A
C   GUARANTEED PENSION
The new Social Security Law provides that no pension shall be lower than the guaranteed pension, which
has been set at one 1997 minimum wage and thereafter shall be indexed to the NCPI. This section sets forth the
fiscal cost of offering this guarantee only to the generations that join the IMSS with effect from January 1, 1997.
Fiscal cost for transition workers who take the MPG are included in the Acquired Rights section although we have
not separate this particular kind of pension from the IVCM ones.
For workers who contribute for the first time from 1997 onward the dropout probabilities were applied
and the pensions these workers could achieve with their savings were calculated in order to compare them with the
guaranteed pension. For those that do not reach this amount, the government will make up the shortfall.



CONTRACTUAL SAVINGs DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                  ANNEX V
Page 13 of 32
Estimates have been done for scenarios 1, 2, and 4 under high and low inflaion. Scenario 3 does not
apply to new generations since they have not acquired rights over the housing sub-account. MPG fiscal cost is
negligible for the first 20 years, since during this period no person is eligible for this pension in case of retirement
and for other insurances there is an insured sum paid by the IMSS to enable the worker to obtain 35% of his
average salary as pension (70% for working risks). Only when this 35% (or 70%) is lower than the MPG the
State must make up the shortfall. In consequence, only people with very low wages will need this additional help
from the government.
MPG fiscal cost became important by the year 2024, when it reaches around 0.10% of the GDP. In the
year 2030 fiscal cost for the MPG is 0.29% of GDP for scenario lB and 2B (B meaning low inflation) to 0.34%
for scenario 4A (A meaning high inflation).
D. SUMA4RY OF FISCAL COSTS ARISING OUT OF REFORM OF THE SOCL4L SECURITYL4 W
The fiscal costs of reform of the Social Security Law, for selected years and our 8 scenarios, are
summazed in the following graphs. Yearly results and fiscal cost by type of pension can be found at the end of
this annex V.
TOTAL FISCAL COST. LOW INFLATION SCENARIO
1.40%    -------------------------   --------.-- -..
1.00%                 -&AA4AAAAAAA
0.80%                           -     -              no
CZ 0.60%I
0.60%             .      -    - -------- - - --- _ .
0.40% -
0.20%   - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -      - - - -
0.00%   I  I  I I I  I i I I I I 1 1 -  i  I   I  I   I   I  I  I   I  I I  I i I I I I
S   O   X   D   C1  b1~ U)  a          t 
YEAR
-|+ 1B  _-*-2B  v.  3B       4B



ANNEX V                                                    CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMT PROGRAM
Page 14 of 32
TOTAL FISCAL COST
1.00%
0.80%  L vJA ii ;k--L          A AA AA       A A-
0. 0.60% -~
0.40%    -- - - - - - -
0.20%        _-             - -        - -         -
n 0Ono/  I, ,,  .   , ,1  I             I  I  I  I  I   I  I    e    .
v.vv %      {w        r      1     1   lr  r  T    I  r1   r  r   7 1   1   7  7!   i  r !     1
r-  o   Cf  co  am  Cj  U)  X   *            r-.  O
0)  0   0   0   0   T-  O-   .  N   N   (N  C#)
)  o   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0D  0
'-  N   (N  (N   N   N   N   N   N   N1          N
YEAR
+-1A -       2A -A --3A .. 4A
A joint group, comprising staff of the World Bank and SHCP, held meetings in Mexico during the second week of
April 1996 to analyze the data provided by the SHCP for fiscal costs of the IMSS pension reforn, and to deepen
the usefuilness of the actuarial model. The group found that the model captured fiscal costs adequately. On the
methodology two fiuther points were noted:
(i)    The income distibution used in the model might underestimate the proportion of population at
the low-end of the distribution, and in tunm, might underestmate fiscal costs. However, further analysis of this
point provided by the SHCP, indicates that such underestimation would be no more than 10% of the fiscal cost.
(ii)   Fiscal costs might be sensitive to the evolution of minimum wages relative to the average wage.
Under the projected scenarios minimum wage decrease as a function of the average wage. Should they grow
parallel under the projected scenarios fiscal cost would be higher. However, preliminary calculations of this
relation provided by the SHCP show that this cost would be at the most 5% of the total fiscal costs. Also, SHCP
demonstrated that historically speaktng the Mexican case illustrates that there is a poor correlation between the
movement of the minimum wage and the average wage, and that minimum wages have shown a secular decline
during the last 25 years.



CoNRAiuLSAvNGs DEvELopS5ENrPROGRAM                                                                 ANNEX V
Page 1S of 32
ANNEX V TABLES
TOTAL FISCAL COSTS UNDER DIFFERENT SCENARIOS
SCENARIO 1B
,.,,2.;;,.. 3 0032   .i%    0.32796 0.000001M  0.771s
. . .  .a9@l 0.063W   0.3650A  0.327% 0.00000O  0.755a
0.0839q  0.3180A  0.322% 0.000009.  0.7239
gX;%68  0.083z   0.318Cs  ~0.318% 0.000009O  0.7069
~~~~~0.1029q  0.2730,q  0.3149q 0.00o1 9A  0.7688
0.1110s   0.2529   0.309N 0.000029'  0.6729
SX;s88   ~0.119gq  0.232%   0.305% 0.0000394  0.656s
.   ....  ~~0.128N   0.214%   0.300% 0.0000394  0.642-A
w  2''g@    0.13409  0.197%   0.295% 0.000049q  0.626"A
~~~~~0.1 40W   0.1819   0.290% 0.00004N   0.6115
2 2.< .|0.146S             .16 0.285% 0.000049 .58
... 0.1539q  0.1510A  0.281% 0.000049   0.5859A
' 'S88sRo"4g 0.157h   0. 1380h  0.276h 0.000049I  0.5719
.......      0.1620S  0.1260h  0.270% 0.00004'M 0.5589
.'. '. .{XN.! 0.166S   0. 1140A  0.265% 0.000004'  0.546N
;; j..$.':2.2.UUi 0.1 71 S   0. 1040%  0.260% 0.00003N   0.535N
.:2 2.20",0  0.75T4. 0.094%M  0.255% 0.0000309  0.52494
0.1I79S   O..  .05h 0.250% 0.000039A  0.5140A
0.183N   . 0.0760%  0.245% -0.0000309  0.5040A
~~~~~0.1889   0.068%4  0.2409% 0.000030A  0.4960A
,g'22 -    ~0.1 91     0,061 OM  0.235  0.000039(  0.4875
.s  .m  ".M   0.194S  0.054% 0.230% 0.0000394  0.4790A
['.R':;.::''. 0.198%j4  0.049%1  0.225%| 0.000030A  0.4710/
~~~~~020 04  0.40    .2%0045A0470 A
[.,.,',,,3205049 0039    0.2150% 0.023170A  0.4820
''g@X -    ~~0.208%   0.035%A  0.21S 0.060789A  0.514SA
,,.,,: ,g2 7...0.2069%  0.031 OA  0.205S% 0.109649(  0.552%
*: . ,,.,20210.206% . 0.028%   0.201%S 0.1572909  0.592
0.208%0.. 0.0250A  0.196% 0.19725SI  0.6259
0.2080%  0..0022%A  0.191S 0.23042S 0.6519
' R: ':::2'2g 0.2040%  0.019%4  0.187 % 0.25826SI   0.6689
'2''R; '' t@..fi. 0. 1980%  0.017%   0.182% 0.280489   0.6789
. ......... 0,1870%  0.0159%  0.177S% 0.2983094  0.6789



ANNEX V                                                           CONTRACTUAL SAvmGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 16 of 32
':::+':s'::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..i"s :.,'""s '....Q.....'s lg-
.0Ps : .1$    0.051    0.000%   0.002S   0.000%   0.000%   0.053   0.0000   00000   0.0000   0.0000
.I s. i    0.060S   0.000%   0.002S   0.000%   0.001%   0.063      0.0000 A 0.000O0   0.0000   00000
..... .   . |0.070%   0.000%   0.003    0.000%   0.001%   0.073    0.00000A 0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
0.080%   0.000%   0.003N   0.000%   0.001%   0.083/         0.00000  0.0000   0.0000%  0.00001
ssg .i  0.090%   0.000%   0.002    0.000%   0.001%   0.094  % .    0.0000   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000W
0.098%   0.000%   0.003    0.000%   0.001%   0.102   %      0.0000   0.000    0.0000   0.0000
.s. Ssw0.106%   0.000%   0.003    0.000%   0.001%   0.1110        0.0000   0.0000   0.000000
0.114%   0.000%   0.004   0.000%   0.001%   0.1190          0.00009  0.0000N  0.00009  00000
0.122%   0.000%   0.005    0.000%   0.001%   0.128%         0.0000   0.0000    00000%  0.0000
0.1270   0.001%   0.006%   0.000%   0.001%   0.134          0.0000   0.0000   0.000000
.. . . s   ..0.131    0.001%   0.007    0.000%   0.001%   0.140 %  0.      0.0000%  0.0000   0.0000
..... . ..9 0.136    0.001%   0.008%   0.001%   0.001%   0.146     0.0000   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000W
0.140    0.001%   0.009    0.001%   0.002%   0.153          0.0000   0.00009  0.0000%  0.0000
.;~ .   sS 0.144    0.001%   0.009    0.001%   0.002%   0.157%         0.0000N  0.0000N  0.0000%  0.00009
<.s. . ....   0.148    0.001%   0.010%   0.001%   0.002%   0.162%     0.0000   0.0000   0.0000%  0.0000
s . s E    0.152    0.001%   0.010N   0.001%   0.002%   0.166% 4   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000%  0.0000
. 1 01570   0.001%   0.011 s   0.001%   0.002%   0.171             0.0000   0.0000   0.0000  0.0000
. . .s . h   0.160A  0.001%   0.011 M  0.001%   0.002%   0 .175%   0.0000%  0.0000  0.0000   0.0000
.s s sQ1   0.164    0.001%   0.011 N   0.001%   0.002%   0.179T   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000E  0.0000
>:s gns 0.168E 0.001%   0.011  s 0.001%   0.002%   0.183%     .    0.0000% 0.0000   0.0000%  0.0000
s S s0    0.172    0.001%   0.012N   0.001%   0.002%   0.1880      0.0000   0.0000  0.0000   0.00004
.174   0.001%   0.012%   0.001%   0.002%   0.191            0.0000   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
0   s  .>s'  . 0.176%   0.001%   0.013    0.001%   0.002%   0.194  0.0000   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
0.178%   0.001%   0.014    0.001%   0.003%   0.198Y4        0.0000   0.0000N  0.0000%  0.0000
21 jS . 0.181%   0.001%   0.015   0.001%   0.003%   0.2010        0.0046   0.0000N  0.0000   0.0000
0.183%   0.001%   0.016    0.001%   0.003%   0.2050__    0.0232   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
..... ....  0. 185%   0.001%   0.018   0.001%   0.003%   0.2080   _    0.0608   0.0000S  0.0000   0.0000
s2s0'.2. ii    0.1830,q  0.001%   0.0180   0.001%   0.003%   0.206T _0 .1096   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
0.183 _0.001%   0.018   0.001%   0.003%   0.206             0.1573   0.0000S  0.0000   0.0000
....w    0.182    0.001%   0.019   0.001%   0.004%   0.208W4         0.1972   0.0000   0.00000  0.0000
0.180    0.001    0.022)  0.001%   0.004%   0.208_          0.2304   0.0000   0.00004 0.0000
0.175    0.001%   0.022    0.001%   0.004%   0.204          0.2582   0.0000   0.0000   0.0000
0.170    0.001%   0.022   0.001%   0.004%   0.198_          0.2805   0.0000  0.0000   0.0000
0.159    0.001    0.0225   0.001%   0.004%   0.1870 _       0.2983%  0.0000   0.0000   0.0000



CONTRACrUALSAVINGSDEVELOP.MENTPRoGRAM                                                                 ANNEX V
Page 17 of 32
SCENARIO 2B
(INFONAVIT's return 2%  throughout estimation period)
0.053%   0.3903    0.3271  0.0607    0.1
0.063%   003650   0.327  0.000009   0.8
0.0735    0.3410    0.325% 7.Y       0.13
0.0830%  0_318    0.322%       0.0000090 3
A. :$ig2C@.". 0.094%(  0.2950A  0.318% 0.00001    076
0.102%   0    A   0.314  0.000014   0.6889
09      0.2520   0.309  0.0025   0.6729
X,0.1 190%   02329 - 0.305A 0.00003N   0.6569A
...., ;      : 0.128%A  0.2140A  0.300 i 0.000039A  0.6420A
. . .z.. .:f0 0.148%A  0.19  025  0.00004i   0.6409
0.7160     0.1817A   012   0.20 04   0.631
0.1689    0.15660   0.2851  0.00004S   0.640
0.2199Mn   0.1510A  0.281 %i 0.000040   0.651 OA
0.2490   0. 1380A  0.276 i 0.00004i   0.6630
.B. :zB ' B   0.280 %   0.1260i  0.270A 0.00004 i  0.67R0
.> .. g2 ....0.305ic 0.1140   0.26-55  0.00004i  0.6840
.:..M~~    0.3309(.. 0.104OA  0.260% 0.00003i  0.6949(
0.3550 .. 0.094 A   0-.25-5i 0.00003i  0.7040A
..... ^. .gg0.381 i. 0.085OA  0.250% 0.000039 _ 0.716S(
'>:.f:" .oB'i,I'. 0.399i.  0.076Ac  0.245%. .000   0.7200S
::.:',,BS2. ... >.0.416A   0.068i  0243% 0.0000 3 0 .72
~~~~~~0.434A   O 0061 OA  G.-235  0.000039i  0.7300S
*;a. sa lffi 0.4530A  0.0540   0.230i 0.00003A  0.737Y
~~~~~~0.4650A  0.049A _0.225A 0.00003A  0.7390A
...... ...   =0.478  0A  0.044A   0.220i 0.00465 i   0.747NA
[ - ....... 0.492  9 0;039-   0.215 9 0.023170A  0.769;
.         ~~~~~0.505iv 0.035%i  0.1|00078i  0.81 1 O
sa  ..       0.516%A  0,031 c%   G .......... 05A  - il109640A  0.862o
0 528-M  0.028h C 7)-14T ;729-X   0.913-A
0.5165O    0 075,%  2,<       5%   0.933*.
0.502%(  0.2  Ji 9. ____302`   0.94,5
0.489%(   A.Gt9h ~'l 37G256    0.953 A
0.4769if   0.017   0.182%  0.28048    0 - 050/4
...................0.463ie  0.015  0-177X    0.29830  .5



ANNEX V                                                            CONTRACTUAL SAVD;GS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 18 of 32
Cig s>css fc ~~~~~~~~~~. 1I!N S_ 
s| 0.051St  0.000%   0.0029t  0.000%   O.OOO1   0.0532            _ _         _
ss i0.1060   0.000%   0.0023q  0.000%   0.001    0.06311                   _      _
.s  0.114si  0.000%   0.0034   0.000%   0.Q0 19 OQ3              C
0.12   seSg c0.000%   0.005    0. 000%   0.001%   0.083t       C     O .O  O OOS _    Q .OQQO
0.140 ss O 0.001%9  0.0026   0.000%   0.001%   0.1 -_ O.Q94S% C               ____      .OO
Q098.0    0.001%   0.0038   0.000%   0.001%   0.162               0 0.QOOOff 0         Q.QQOO
16    0.00%   0.0101 0001%   0.00%1  0.11189 S                      O.OOOOS           Q.QQOOSI
0.0     0.0011  0.013S   0.001%   0.001%   0.119S        C O.QOOQSI Q.            OOOOSI
2sjsgssSs s  0.1 229f  0.001%   0.005N   0.001%   0.001%   0.1 2849          0.0000O
cc     0 c  Q.1257    0.002%   0.017    0.O.1.                                                0.00000
029 0.002%   0.019N   0.002%   0.003%   0.3059 ____
0.302f _0.001%   0.020    0.001%   0.001%   0.313   __           O O.OOOS          O
,i,ci,O  0.35176f   0.001%   0.0122    0.001%   0.002%   O. 1 8904     0     0.0000SJ 
0.201    0.001%   0.01234   0.001%   0.002%   0.21                C  O.O 
0.2293   0.001%   0.015   0.002 %0 0.004%I  0.3499Z _._OOQS                            O.OOQOS
eit<:.cc   0.381N   0.003St  0.026SZ  0.001%   0.00%3  0.241              C.QIQQ
.2~f   0.396   0.003%   0.0289   0.002%   0.005%   0.43O4  0__    __             _____4 00.009
c$ g 0.279    0.002%   0.019%   0.002%   0.003%   0.453                   C 0.0__0_        0  0.OOQOSi
0.3021q  0.002%   0.02033    0.002%   0.004%   0.3304t            C   .OOOOff       C  0.000__
20* -0.3250   0.002%   0.0223   0.002%   0.004    0.345598        -   -      .OOOOS        C  O.OOO
0.349St  0.002%   0.02439   0.002%   0.004%   0.381492 St ___        O.OS              Q.O
0.365t  0.003%   0.025    0.002%   0.004%   0.39950               C  0.0S           C  O.Q
0.381 S   0.003%   0.026    0.0030 0.08    0.516                  C        S           0.0000
0.469    0.003    0.045    0.003%   0.008%   0.528  _________
0.4396t  0.003%   0.028   0.002%   0.005%   0.515St ____ ---C  -.O
0.4131    0.003%   0.031 9t  0.002%   0.006t%  0.45302               O.OCS             O.OOOO
0.421    0.003S   0.0533f  0.003%   0.006%   0.4659                  0.0000C1       0  0.000O0
0.4308    0.003%   0.036ff  0.003%   0.006%   0.478           0.005ff0.0 _ _        C  O.OOOO
0.4394   0.003%   0.03904  0.003%   0.007%   0.492S           0.023S%        _______ _ O.OOC
iiic+ gi i 0.4484  0.003S1 0.0439f  0.003SI  0.008S%   0.5059t        0,061 0f00009C        C  0.00OOC
;' c;,<5 iMc0.458Y4  0.003SS _0.044St  0.003SZ   0.008S%   0.516S     0.11 0f .OCS          0  0.C0OOS
'isNigSxg| 5 0.46    0.003St  0.045St  0.003St  0.OC8S%  0.5289t      0.1 57S  0.OOS         C  O.O
'55 ciiZ | X 0.003St 0.003St 0,003S   0.009S-OOOS 0.5i5SN           0.197St O.OOOOS -         0 .OOOOSS
icsi tci.c i    0.44St0.003S%   0.053SZ  0.002St  0.010OS   0.502St  0.230S  0.OC0009X        0.0000N
,iiincciicig>tc0.4QSi0.003f   0.054St  0.002ff  0.010S   0.4899S    0.2589q O.OOOOSt      C  O.OOOOSi
Giiiiic      0.408Si0.003S   0.053ff  0.002S   0.010%S  0,476SN     0.28 0St  2           01 OOOOSTC .oa
ccisi 0.394Si 0.003f 0.054S%  0.002%1 0.01 OS 0.           4       6S 0.298S              O.OOS a .0000sl



CoNTRAcruAL SAVINGS DEvELPDmENT PRoGRAm                                                          ANNEX V
Page 19 of 32
SCENARIO 3B
(Without INFONAVIT for transition generation)
. .. ........ ...     ........
,~~~C                   ApR.   ,.,. ',;,,,sst.P. 
. ... N .5.79I0 .    0.213T    0.390    0.327  0.00000N   0.931O
0.0520   0.365A   0.327N 0.00000   0.944A
02% 0 341OA  0.325  0.000000   0.9589
0.3320%  0.318 A 0.322% 0.00000   0.972T4
.. g :f^5552C ... ! 0.3730/4   0.318% 0.0000194  0.986
0.406%   0.273    0.314% 0.0000194  0.992W
0.440%  0.252    0.309% 0.00002    1.001
0.474%   0.232    0.305  0.00003    1.011
0.508%   0.214    0.3000 0.00003    1022
7R0.532%   0.197    0295  000004    1024
0.555    0.181    0.2909 0.00004    1.026
0.579%  0.166    0.2859 0.00004    1.030
0.604%   0.151    0.281  0.000049   1.0369
0.621    0.1389   0.276  0.00004    1.034
0.6389   0.1269   0.270  0.000049   1.034
0.6559   0.1149   0.265  0.00004    1.0359
0.6739   0.1049   0.260  0.000039   1.0379
0.688    0.0949   0.255  0.00003    1.037
0.7049 0.0859   0.250  0.000039   1.0389
0.719    0.076    0.245  0.00003    1.041
0.7359   0.068    0.2409 0.000039   1.043
0.7479   0.061 9   0.235  0.00003    1.043
0.7609   0.0549   0.230  0.000039i  1.044
0.7729   0.0499   0.225  0.000039   1.0460
0.7859   0.0449   0.220% 0.004659i  1.0530
0.798    0.0399   0.215% 0.02317    1.076
0.8129   0.0359   0.210% 0.06078    1.1189
0.801    0.031    0.205% 0.10964    1.148
0.8039   0.0289   0.201  0.157299i  1.188
0.8079   0.0259   0.1969 0.197259i  1.224
0.8069   0.022A  0.1919 0.230429- 1.249
0.789    0.019    0.187  0.25826    1.253
0.7699  0.0179  0.1829 0.280484   1.2489
0.7259   0.0159   0.1779 0.298309i  1.2169



ANNEX V                                                             CONTRACAL SAVINGS DEvELoPMENT PROGRAM
Page 20 of 32
-s0: g              V        s'  M
039 0.001%   00109    0.001%   0.002%   07
0.2401   0.002%   0.0102   0.001%   0.002%   0406
.. ..a     902791   0.001%1  00104   0000%    0002%   0440
0.318%   0.001%   00106   000%1  0.002%   043320
g2.s0  .48  0.35 0.001%   0.0108   0.001%   0.002%   0 3730
0.390%   0.002%   0.0122   0.001%   0.002%   0.4065
0.421%   0.002%   0.0142   0.001%   0.003%   0.440%
.          0.453%i  0.002%   0.016%   0.001%   0.003%   0.474
0. 55    0.002%   0.0183   0.001%   0.003%   0.604
0.502%   0.002%   0.0223   0.001%1  0.004%   0.5321
;Ssiss sss   0.520%8  0.002%   0.0263   0.002%1  0.005%   0.5553
* S06a%    ...0.31  0.003%   0.040    0.002%   0.005%   0.5795
0sssSs   616 --0.003%   0.0364   0.003%   0.006%   0.6047
0.57063  0.004%   0.0374   0.003%   0.007%   0.621
0.585%   0.004%   0.0399   0.003%   0.007%   0.6387
0.601%   0.004%   0.0404   0.003%, 0.007%   0.675%
: t ssssSs< 0.61673    0.004%   0.0415   0.004%   0.008%   0.6735
0.630%1  0.004%, 0.0429   0.004%   0.008%   0.6884
0.644%   0.005%   0.0435   0.004%   0.008%   0.704%
0.658    0.005%   0.0445   0.004%   0.008%   0.7197
. 20   0 706.    0.005%   0.0459   0.004%   0.008%   0.735%
.s.0768131   0.005%   0.049%   0.004%i 0.009%   0.7479
.. i. ....         0.005%   0.0526   0.004%   0.009%   0.760%1
......     0.711   0.005%1  0.0556   0.004%   0.010%   0.772
0.70693  0.005%   0.0698   0.004%   0.011%   0.7850
.Ss.gs   ~0.7139q  0. 0%1  0.064%   0.004%1  0.012%   0.7989%
;ss    ~~~0.721 OM ~ 0.005%1  0.069A   0.004%1  0.01 3%   0.812%
0.711%1  0.005%   0.0699   0.004%   0.013%   0.801
ss S.>s>  ~0.7139q  0.005%1  0.068SZ   0.004%1  0.013%   0.8039%
g s    ~~~0.70994  0.005%1  0.0759400410.1% 087
*S ssssX   ~0.9%    0.005%1  0.084%   0.004%1  0.016%   0.806%4
0.678    0.005%   0.086%   0.004%   0.016%   0.789
0.659    0.005%   0.085%   0.004%1  0.016%   0.769
0.617    0.004%   0.084%   0.004%1  0.01 6%   0.725N



CONTRACIUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                         ANNEX V
Page 21 of 32
SCENARIO 4B
(2% real interest rate)
.... .. ... .. .w.. ,
0.107T   0.390A  0.327  0.00000    0.824
0126    0.3650   0.327% 0.00000  0.818
0.146    0.341    0.325% 0.00000    0.812
0.166    0.318    0.322% 0.00000    0.806
0.187    0.295   0.3189 0.00001    0.799%
0.203W4  0.273N   0.314* 0.00001    0.7890
0.220N   0.252    0.309  0.00002    0.781O
0.2370.   0.232    0.305  0.000030   0.774i
0.2540   0.214    0.300  0.000030   0.7680
0.2665   0.197    0.295% 0.000049   0.758
..........   0.278*   0.181    0.290  0.000049 0.749
0.290O. 0.166    0285  0.000049   0.741
0.3020A  0.1510% 0.281 N 0.000049   0.7340
0.310 O   0.1380A  0.276% 0.00004N   0.7249
0.3190   0.126%| 0.270  0.000049   0.715
~>         0.3289   0.1140A  0.265% 0.000049   0.708
0.337    0.104    0.260  0.00003    0.701
0.344    0.0949(  0.255% 0.00003    0.693
0.352%  0.085% 0.250% 0.00003N   0.687
|. 1 BB-gBXX 0.360    0.076%   0.245  0.00003    0.681
|. 1 BS YYRc 0.368%   0.068%   0.240% 0.00003%   0.676
|O~   ......0.374    0.061    0.235  0.00003    0.670
0.380%/  0.054%1 0.230  0.00003    0.6641
0.386    0.049%1  0.225%| 0.00003    0.660
0.3920.044%A  0.2200 0.00483%/  0.6610
0.3990   0.039%/  0.215% 0.02334%/  0.677
0.4079  0.031    0.205% 0.10964    0.753
0.401    0.028    0.201 % 0.15729    0.787
0.4030A  0.025%   0.1965  0.19859    0.822
0.4030   0.0224  0.191% 0.23170    0.848
0.3950   0.019    0.187  0.25950    0.860
0.384    0.017W4  0.182% 0.28250    0.866
0.3689   0.01594  0.177% 0.30026    0.861



ANNEX V                                                             CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 22 of 32
E  0.1019   0.000%   0.005%   0.000%   0.001%             0        0        0           0
0.120)   0.000%   0.005%   0.000%   0.001%             0        0       0            0
0.139    0.000%   0.005%   0.000%   0.001%             0        0       0            0
w |   0.1599  0000%   0.005%   0.000%   0.001%        0        0       0        0
b i  0.1799   0.001%   0.005%   0.000%   0.001%        0        0       0        0
t S  0.195    0.001%   0.006N   0.000%   0.001%        0        0       0        0
M .  0.210)   0.001%   0.007%   0.000%   0.001%        0        0       0        0
Bg  |   0.2269   0.001%   0.008%   0.000%   0.001%     0        0       0        0
0.2425   0.001%   0.009%   0.000%   0.002%             0        0       0        0
   0.2519   0.001%   0.011%   0.001%   0.002%        0        0       0        0
)    0.2609   0.001%   0.013%   0.001%   0.002%        0        0       0        0
|  l    0.269    0.001%1 0.016%   0.001%   0.003%      0        0       0        0
0.278    0.002%   0.018%   0.002%   0.003%            0        0       0        0
|    |  0.2859   0.002%   0.019%   0.002%   0.003%     0        0       0        0
j          0.293    0.002%   0.019%   0.002%   0.003%              0        0       0        0
i  .Q"   0.300    0.002%   0.020    0.002    0.004%   0        0       0        0
2O     0.3085   0.002%   0.021     0.002%   0.004%             0        0       0        0
0315    0.002%   0.021%   0.002%1 0.004%               0        0       0
SC  X.B    0.322%   0.002%   0.022    0.002%   0.004%         0        0        0       0
WlSE   0.3299   0.002%   0.022%   0.002%   O.004%      0        0       0        0
0.336%   0.002%   0.0230   0.002%   0.004%             0        0       0        0
-ESC'XS;S:C.|83MW   0.3415   0.002%   0.024%   0.002%   0.004%   0        0        0       0
.*E...   0.345    0.002%   0.026    0.002%   0.005%              0        0        0        0
0.349W   0.002%   0.028S   0.002%   0.005%             0        0       0        0
0.3530   0.002%   0.029%   0.002%   0.005%           0.00%      0       0        0
Z..,       0.357    0.002%   0.032   0.002%   0.006%            0 .02%     0        0        0
>..S N 0.3609   0.002%   0.035    0.002%   0.006%    0.06%      0       0        0
0.361    0.002%   0.035%   0.002%   0.006%           0.11%      0       0        0
*E 2 0.356S   0.002%   0.034    0.002    0006%       0.16%      0       0        0
0.002% 1         0. 0 % .0379-__           _ __ _            __  _ _ __ _  _
~ .~  . 0.3549    .0    0.037  ____ 0.00       7% ______    0.20%       0        0        0
CS *2  0.349    0.002%   0.042C   0.002%   0.008%        0.23%      0       0        0O
0.3395   0.002%   0.043    0.002%   0.008%           0.26%      0       0        0
0.3299 0.002%   0.043    0.002%   0.008%             0.28%      0       0        0
S   0.3095   0.002%   0.046%   0.002%   0.009%       0.30%      0       0        0



CoNTRACTuAL SAViNGS DEVELOPMENT PRoGRAm                                                          ANNEX V
Page 23 of 32
SCENARIO 1A
0.0439   0.349W   0.32796 0.00000    0.720
0.049A   0.3270   0.327% 0.000009   0.704
0.0559   0.3069_ 0.325% 0.000009   06.86
0.061    0.285%   0.322  0.000009   0.668
0.0679(  0.264%   0.318  0.000019   0649
0.0719(  0.2449^  0.314% 0.00002    0629
0.075A  0.226N 0.309% 0.00003    0610
0.0799   0.20894  0.305  0.00004 0A592
0.0839   0.192    0.300% 0.000059   0.575
0.0859   0.1760   0.295  0.000069   0 557A
0.0880A  0.1629(  0.290% 0.000079   0.540
0.0909   0.1480A  0.2859 0.000079   0.524'A
0.0920A  0.136%   0.281 0.000079   0.508A
0.093A 0.1240A  0.276  0.00007    0.492S
0.094A   0.1 139C  0.270% 0.00007    0.477
0.095N   0.103Y 0.265% 0.00007    0.463
0.095    0.0939   0.260% 0.00007    0.449
.. '        ,.'''R 0.0969   0.084    0.255% 0.00007A   0.4359A
0.0960A  0.076    0.250  0.00007   0.422
0.0960A  0.0680/  0.245  0.000079 0.409
0.0969A   0.061 Y  0.240  0.00006'A  0.397
0.0970Y  0.055W4  0.235  0.000065A  0.386N
0.0970Y 0.049Y 0.230  0.000060. 0.376
''', ' R' .... 0.0980A  0.04404  0.225  0.000060A  0.3679
0.0980C 0.0390/  0.2209 0.005340/  0.36391
0.0999:  0.035Y   0.215Y  0.0265094  0.3759
0.099"A  0.031    0.210% 0.06945    0.410
0.0970A  0.028Y   0.205% 0.12527T4  0.456
0.0960A  0.025    0.201Y 0.179709/  0.501
0.0930A  0.0229C   0.196% 0.22534%   0.5369
0.091 %   0.0209q  0.1919 0.263239C   0.56594
0.088    0.017    0.18   0.954     0.8
0.084%   0.015Y  0.1829C 0.320411   0.602
0.079%   0.01 40A  0.1779 0.34078%   0 611



ANNEX V                                                            CONTRACrTuAL SAVINGS DEVEPMENT PROGRAM
Page 24 of 32
004  .  # 1  0000%   0002    0000%   0000% 043   o.000                    0%      0%       0%
..  10.047    0.000%   0.0029   0.000%   0.000%   0.049  ___       0.0009      0%      0%6      0%
.   ;  1 0.053SS  0.000%   0.002M   0.000%   0.000%   0.055    0.000     0%       0%       0%
;    ,10.058N   0.000%   0.002%   0.000%   0.000%   0.0617    0.000)     0%       0%       0%
|   ,    0.0686   0.000%   0.0029   0.000%   0.000%   0,071_ _  0.000    0%       0%       0%
1 0.0684t  0.000%   0.0026   0.001%   0.000%   0.075          0.000       0%      0%       0%
i I    0.082S   0.000%  0.0039   0.000%   0.000%   0.0794           0.0004      0%       0%       0%
.  0.0879S    0.000%  0.0036   0.000%  0.001%   0.0836        0.000N      0%      0%       0%
0 0.087S6  0.000%  0.0049   0.000%  0.001%   0.085N           0.000S      0%      0%       0%
0.087SQ   0.001%   0.0048   0.001%   0.001%   0.088S1         0.0005   00      0 %   0.0%0
0.083S6  0.001%   0.0059   0.001%   0.001%   0.0909/         0.0090    0%    0%          0%
0.085S6  0.001%   0.0068   0.001%   0.001 %   0.0927         0.15     0.0%    0%         0%
0.083    0.001%   0.009   0.001%   0.002%   0.06             0.10    0.0004 %   0 %   00
0.080N   0.001%   0.0069   0.001%   0.001%   0.093N           0.002  0      0.0% 0.00%
0.086    0.001%   0.006%   0.001%   0.001%   0.091N           0.000.0 0%           0%      0%
.       ~~~0.086N   .01    0.006g  0.001%   0.001 %   0.096f           0.0%       0%       0%1      0%
.      0.087%~~ 0.001%                                                 OO.0  .01S 001N    .9%000% 0   % 0
.08074    0.001%   0.006N   0.001%   0.001%   0.0988          0.0029      0%       0%       0%
00A7  0.001%   0.006   0.001%   0.001%   0.084                0.000%      0%      0%       0%
0.087    0.001%   0.006   0.001%   0.001%   0.096             0.0003      0%      0%       0%
0       ~~~0.0870A  0.001 %   0.006N   0.001%   0.001 %   0.097%      0.000%      0%       0%       0%
0087f   0.001 %   0.007N  0.001%   0.001 %   0.0978%         0.0%        0%      0%       0%1
.g      ~~~0.087ff  0.001 %   0.0078   0.001%   0.001 %   0.0989       .05 0.000   E   000%   0.000%
0.087ff4  0.001%  0.008%   0 .001%   0.001%   0.0980%         0.026%   O.OOOf   0.000%   0.000%
:i      ~~0.0879q  0.001 %   0.008%   0.001%1 0.001%   0.099%/        0.0269%   0.000%  0.000%   0.000%
.      ~~~0.086% 001T008           .01      .0N 007                   0.069%   0.000%   O.OW%   0.000%
>'     0.083ff~ 0.001 %   0.009%  0.001%   0.002%   0.096%010    000 000% 000
g   |  ~~0.085W4  0.001 %   0.008%   0.001%   0.002%   0.093%          0.125%   0.000%  0.000%   0.000%
. S  "  ~0.0783%   0.001 %   0.0109   0.001%   0.002%   0.096         0.263%   0.000   0.000%   0.000%1
0   iF  0.0740.0 .01    0.0109   0.001%   0.002%   0.093%             0.225%   0.000%   0.000%   0.000%
0 0.071 ff8   0.0019   0         .Of 0.001%   0.002%   0.084  %       0.2320 .0 0.000%   0.0%
.  M   ~~0.074ff  0.001 %    .00    001%   0.002%   0.079%1           0.2950%  0.000    .0%       .0%



CoNRAciuAL SAviNGs DEVELPMENT PROGRAM                                                             ANNEX V
Page 25 Of 32
SCENARIO 2A
(INFONAVIT's return 2% throughout estimation period)
.. gj82gli ...0.0430A  0.3490   0.327% 0.00000 0.72
~~~~~0.0490A  0.3270A  0.327% 0.00000 0A74
@S@B|8    ~~0.0559 - 0.30654  0.325% 0.000009    .66
0.061 N   0.285N   0.322% 0.00000N   0.6689
0.0670/  0.264N   0.3180k 0.00001T4  0.6499
0.071 s   0.244N  0.314N U.00020/  0.629
0  -75q0.226OX  0.309% 0.00003W4 0.61094
0.0799%  0.208sA  0.305% 0.000049q  0.592-4
0.083s   o. 1 92si  0.300% 0,00005)   0.575s
0.095%   o.1 760A  0.295% 0.00006v   0.5670si
9         o~~~~.11  0-. I 62s6  0.290  90.00007  0.563v
S         ~~~~0.125%   0.1 48sA  0.285% 0.00007v   0.559v
0.140%   0.1 3694  0.281% 0 .00007    0.557Y
X-0.155    0. I240A 0.276s% 0.00007)   0.555N
~~~~~0.165N   0. 1 13%1  0.270%l 0.00007%l 0 .549s
[&t       ~~~~0.1I75W   0.103%A .265% 0.0000070/  0.543v
FXe2%~~0182    0.0939  0.260%1 0.0000754  0.535v
0.208s6  O.Oa4-A  0.255%{ 0.00007%1  0.548si
~~~~~0.234W4  0.076-M  0.250%1 0.00007T4  0.561i
i>Sz . N>t 30.26194  0.068N   0.245s% 0.00007N   0.574W4
0.281 OA  0.061 /4  0.240% 0.00006N   0.58294
0.301 OA  0.oss    0.235s 0.00006%   0.591 
~~~~~0.321 OA  0.0499%  0.0230%( 0.000069(  0.60094
ffi E5 ii  0.341%O  0.044    0.225% 0.000060A  0.6109
9 |     ~~0.326%A  0.039%M  0.220% 0.005340A  0.591
X ~~~0.31 1%O   0.035%   0.215% 0.02650%X  0.5889
E ~~~~0.296%A  0.031 %   0.210% 0.069450A  0.6079
g 8XtZ    ~~0.2819   0  O028%   0.205% 0.12527%A  0.640
0.2669%  0.025%4  0.201- 0.179709%  0.672)
..   X ......0.2519% =0.022% 0.196E 0.22534% 0.6959
0.2369%=0.020%   0.191N 0.26323%   0.71094
t00>2gl; ~0.221  %0.017% 0.187  0.29504N 0.72
y .. { 2 ... .. 0.2062%  0.015%   0. 1822 0.32041 %   0.72494
IM M          0.188M   0.01 40%  0. I779q 0.340780h  0.7201



ANNEX V                                                            CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 26 of 32
0.04179   0.000%   0.002WS   0.000%   0.000%   0.04374        0.000    0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0075    0.000%   0.0023    . 0.000%   0.000%   0.049S         0.000    0.000%   0.000    0.000
0.0539   0.000%   0.0023   0.000%   0.001% 0 0.0558 _         0.000    0000%   0.000%   0.000
,.:cS fc   0.058S4  O.OOOS   0.0SOOONOOO6   .6                        ;OOOiOOOS    .O              .OS
0090.0000%.00049 0s000%   0.001%   0.095                      0000    0.000%   0.000%   0000
ZO e   0.063S   0.000%   0.0025   0.001%   0.001%   0.0671            0.0    ____       .OOOS   O.O
0.01168   0.001%   0.00297  0.001%   0001%   007125          00OOOS_  O.OOOS 
.0.1728   0.001%   0.008S   0.001%   0.001%   0.10759             0.000     0.000%   0.000%
2,Sg  fl   0.0794   0.001%   0.0039   0.002%   0.002%   0.015         0.000    0.000%   0.000%   0.000
ss O1 s .  2 0.050S   0.000%   0.003    0.002%   0.001%   0.086       0.000%   0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.159,  0.002%   0.0011    0.002%   0.001%   0.0195            0.000S 0.000%   0.000%   0.000
2O~.  0.1       0.0%             0.002%   0.001%   0.182           I 0.0007 0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.1 28S   0.001%   0.0013q  0.001%   0.001%   0.120 59        0.000S   0.000%   0.000%   0.000
2 Q1 s   0.21 S   0.001%   0.0015    0.003%   0.003%   0.21 345       0.00094  0.000%   0.000%   0.000
g       0.14235    0.003%   0.0106   0.002%   0.002%   0.15%          0.00O0    0.000%   0.000%   0.000
ZX t 2 0.159S   0.002%   0.018S   0.002%   0.002%   0.1 65S60.000    0.000%   0.000%   0.000
Z$ 0.215    000% 0.2          0.003%   0.004%   0.317             0.000A  0.000%   0.000%   0.000
Z ts   0.7164    0.002%   0.0112   0.002%   0.002%   0.38214          0.000S   0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.188    0.003%   0.0123    0.0024   0.002%   0.208            0.000S   0.000%   0.000%   0.000
Z21ss   0.212    0.003%   0.0159   0.003%   0.003%   0.2342           0.00     0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.235    0.003%   0.016S  0.003%   0.003%   0.261      %       0.02O6  0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.254    0.003%   0.0128    0.003%   0.003%   0.281            0.000% 0.000%            0.000S
sg   S Zc  0.2714S   0.004%   0.020    0.003%   0.004%   0.301        0.125    0.000%   0.000%   0.000
.  0.2873   0.003%   0.025    0.00%   0.004%   0.326               .O    0.000%   0.000
0.3049   0.004%   0.025    0.004%   0.005%   0.341            0   0.000% 0.000% 0.000O
g   gs |  ~0.28994  0.004%   0.025S   0.004%   0.005ff  0.326%4        0.0059H  0.00096  O.OOS    .OOf
+<5f.c*x;  M 0.2749I  0.004%   0.026SI  0.003%   0.00596   0.3119%     0.02694  .OOOe6  O.OOOS6  O OOOf
0.201    0.004%   0.0265I  0.003%   0.005%   0.296%           0.26     0.000%   0.000%   0.000
2  >;ifs  S    0.246    0.003%   0.0249i  0.003%   0.005%   0.281 % _ 0295   0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.231    0.003%   0.0253   0.003%   0.005%   0.266            0.180    0.000%   0.000%   0.000
0.217    0.003%   0.024    0.003%   0.004%   0.188             0.22594  0.000%   0.000%   0.000
X    t    ~~0.201 Sl0.003%   0.0259I  0.003%   0.005S   0.2369%        0.2639f  0.000%   0.000%, O.OOOf
scssscss  w 0.187    0.003%   0.0249    .0% 000f    .2                 0.295W4  0.00096  0.000SS  O.OOOf
issgs8ci- 8  O.174! 0SO.003 %   0.023S   0.002%  O0.004ff   0.0         .3209 O.OOS O.OffOOOf
-scg Ess | 0.1569I  0.002%   0.0249q  0.002%   0.0059%   0.1889%      O0.3419ff  0.000%1 O.0% OOS 0. OOOf



CoNTRACTUAL SAVINGs DEvELopmEN  PRooRAm                                                           ANNEX V
Page 27 of 32
SCENARIO 3A
(Without INFONAVIT for transition generation)
.aZM:Mfl.1 L 0.17494  0.349OA  0.327% O.OOOOs  0851
0EMwt      0.197o   0.327N   0.327% 0.OOOoOn0.5 A
ONt"       0.220 x   0.306 A  0.325%  .Oo 0.00000 
Stilt 1   0.243N   0.285Y4  0.3229 0.ooooo0 A  .5
AMMM      ~~0.266W   0.264-   0.3185q 0.00001 9    .88
ggggWO    ~~0.282N   0.244s  0.314N 0.00002s   0.840s
ggg323C  <    0.2980/  0.226s  0.309N 0.0003    0.833s
...;. ..#     0.314W .. 0.208s 0.305N 0.00004W4  0.827N
. ...... . 0333...  0.192o 0.3009q 0.0000594  0.822
g2|lg222  ~0.338N   0.176%   0.295E 0.00006N   0.810N
.0.347N   0.162%   0.290'q 0.00007Y4  0.799N
S0@gW3$  ~0.355   0.148%   0.285% 0.00007   0.789N
0.363-4  0.136%   0.281 % 0.00007%   0.78094
_ 0.366   0.124%   0.276% 0.00007%   0.766N
R         ~~~~0.3699S  0.1 13%A  0.270% 0.000079%  0.753N
. j.>N22tiw 0.373N   0.1I03%A  0.265% 0.00007%A  0.741N
0.37694  0.093%A  0.260% 0.000070A  0.729N
.i ...'0.376N 0.0840A  0.255% 0.000070%  0.715N
0.3769  0.076%   0.250% 0.000070%  0.7029
@gggt3| ~0.377%{  0.0680/  0.245% 0.00007%1  0.690N
[j;X&    ~~0.377t 0.061     0.240% 0.00006%l  0.678N
[i~~~~0.89 80.0449q  0.2259% 0.00006%{  0.654
[.R,8,.J .... r0.386N   0.0390/4  0.220%| 0.00534% 0.651
|~~~~~.8N0.035  9   0.215% 0.02650%1  0.656
8@gS | ~0.3550A  0.025W4  0.201%1 0. 17970%Y  0.760W
, ~~~~0.341 OA  0.022    0.196% 0.22534% 0.784S
m         ~~~~0.3250A  0.0209   0.9      6323    0.80
+ + Rl W   0.3060A  0.01 7W   0.187% 0.29504% 085
S-iBSA.S'E.H* 0.2820A  0.0154 -0.1822 0.32041 % 080
m        0 256%~~'  0.01494  0. 1T7%1 0.34078% 078



ANNEX V                                                              CoNTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPmENTPROGRAM
Page 28 of 32
. . .  ... ..
..    . ......    ...  .    , M A
; $v 7   0165    0000%   0008%   0000%   0002%   01 74
0.187%   0000%   0.008%   0.000%   0.002%   0.197%
1 :V:f::;i  0.210    0 000%   0.008   0.000%   0.002%   0220Sz
0.233%   0.001%   0.007N   0.000%   0.002%   0.243%
2001   0.256%   0.001%   0.007s  0.000%   0.001%   0.266.
0.270%   0.001%   0.008%   0.001%   0.002%   0.282%
0 t 0OX   0.28&5    0.001%   0.009%   0.001%   0.002%   0.298%
. 0O4   0 299%   0.001%   0.010%   0.001%   0.002%   0.314.
0.314%   0.001%   0.012%   0 001%   0.002%   0.3309H
0.318    0.002%   0.014%   0.002%  X0002%   0.3389_
..  G 7   0.323%   0.002%   0.017%   0.002%   0.0030%   0.347-
D Q~ .  .30327%   0.002%   0.01 9%   0.003%   0.003%   0.3556
0.332%   0.003%   0.022%   0.003%   0.004%   0.3630S
.0.)13!3.   0 .334%   0.003%1 0.022%   0.004%   0.004%   0.3669
.-: 1 t4    0.336%   0.004%5  0.022%   0.004%   0.004%   0.369_
t. l: . . >  0.3379   0.004%1 0.023    0.G04%   0.004%    0.3739S
...... ...0.3394S 0.005%   0.023%   0.004%   0.004%   0.3767
- ... Z"7 0.340S. 0.005%   0.023%   0.004%   0.004%   0.3769
i: :.:It  0 340S   0.005%   0.023%   0.004%   0.004%   0.3768S
;: A . ::.    0.3403   0.005%   0.0232   0.004%   0.004%   0.3770
2|  --0.3403  0.005%   0.024   0.004%   0.004%   0.3778A
..... 0 30 0.34    0. 005%   0.027%   0.004%   0.005%   0.381O
..... : $. 0.340S  0.005%   0.030%   0.004%   0.005%   0.384%
0.3390  0.005%   0.032%   0.004%   0.006%   0.3859S
202S-:  0 0337S  0.005%   0.0348  0.004%   0.006%   0.3864 S
0.332%   0.005%   0.033%   0.004%   0.006%   0.380N
0.324%   0.005%   0.0350/  0.004%   0.007%   0.3749
~Q4 0.313%   0.004%   0.03'    0.004%   0.006%   0.362  ___4  _
0 302%   0 004%   0.03C0   0.004%   0.007%   0.355
0.288%   0.004%   0.0380   0.04    0.007%    .4
0 274%   0.004%   0.0370A  0.004%   0.007%   0.325
3 s X  0.252S   0.004%   0.0390   0.003%   0.007%   0.306
0.227S   0.004%S  0.0400A  0.003%1 0.008%   0.282
0.203%   0.003%   0.3       .03      .0%      .5



CoNTRAcTuAL SAviNGs DEvELop,ENT PROGRAM                                                           ANNEX V
Page 29 Of 32
SCENARIO 4A
(2% real interest rate)
_ |,@EE .pit0,$t,0 ....  F.,   .". ..E
E. ' :'.' ' E ..0.0870A  0.3490A  0.327% 0.00000%A  0.7640A
........ f }3600.0989  0,327%   0.327% 0.00000% 0.753i
~~~~~~~0.1100A  0.306%   0.325% 0.00000%   0.7400
E"' :.'.'.E'.''  01-21 1   0.285%A  0.322% 0.00000    0.7299
: '' . '   ~~0. 13359  0.26404  0.318% 0.00001%   0.715-4
... ..'. .2o2....0.1410A  0.2440%  0.314% 0.00002%   0.6999
E%            0. 149N(  0.2260%  0.309% 0.00003%A  0.6849
E ' E 'p  O 0.1570A  0.2080%  0.305% 0.000040%  0.6705
0.1650   0.192%   0.300% 0.00005%0A  67
.: . .2 .. 0.1690   0.176%   0.295% 0.00006 0A 61
0.1730A  0.1I62%M  0.290% 0.00007 0A 66
N. . ..... .  0.1770A  0.1I48%4  0.285% 0.00007    0.11
0.182%   0.136%   0.281% 0.00007%0.58
.. . F O.183 0.180   0.124%1  0.276% 0.00007A  0.583N
: ,,,5:.,2ar,|, 0. 1850  0.113%   0.270- 0.00007'M  0.568a
" :':,'.$ ":'2 .$ l.0.1860A O.103 0.265N O0.00007E A.5
0.18    0.093%0.24 0  0.00007 0A   51
...... 0S O1 880   0.084%   0.255% 0.00007  0.57
E         ~~~~~0. 188N   0.0769%  0.250% 0.00007  0.54
. .  . .. .  . .. .0.1880/  0.068%   0.245% 0.000079E  0.502-4
0. 188N   0.061     0.240% 0.000060E  0.4905
7gT|5i   ~~~0. 1890,  0.0559%  0.23 % 0.00006   0.4795
.. .....       . 1 90    0.0499%  0.230% 0.00006N   0.469W4
EWgHl%WW  O~~.191N  0O.044%/  0.225% 0.00006E   0.4605
SX7WW        O.9S 009          .220% 0.00554    0.4575
......      0. 1929q  0.03594  0.215% .269049
,;,,,,;EE;,E t21 0193    0.031%   0.210% 0.06964    0.5049
gg0W%WG   0~~~.189   0.028%   0.205% 0.12545   0.5489
.. ...........  0. 187N   0.025%4  0.201 % 0.17988   0.5929
0.181 S   0.022%   0.196W  0.22687   0.6259
0.1779q  0.020%   0.191 W 0.26470W/  0.6529
0.170N   0.01 7%   0.187% 0.29645N  0.6709
0.162    0.015%   0.182W  0.322731   0.6839
...... 0.152W   0.0140,q  0.177% 0.343029W  0.6875



ANNEX V                                                             CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 30 of 32
0.082O   0.000%   0.004%   0.000%   0.001%   0.087N                 0        0        0        0
0.094%   0.000%   0.004%   0.000%   0.001%   0.098O 1               0        0        0        0
0.105    0.000%   0.004    0.000%   0.001%   0.110S                 0        0        0        0
0.116%   0.000%, 0.004%   0.000%   0.001%   0.1219                  0 0.0000          0   0.0009
201   0.128B   0.001%   0.0039   0.000%   0.001%   0.133                   0C  0.0000%       0   0.000
0.135f   0.001%   0.004- 0.000%   0.001%   0.141_                   0  0.00009 _   0   00
0.142 _ 0.001%   0.0059   0.000%   0.001%   0.149N                  0  0.0000         0   0.000
0.150%   0.001%   0.0056   0.000%   0.001%   0.157N                 C 0  0.000O0          0.000
0.157S  0.001%   0.0067 0.001%   0.001%   0.1659/                   0  0.0000         0    .000
0.1596    0.001%   0.007, 0.001%   0.001%   0.169                   0  0.0000             0.000
~.   0.161    0.001%   0.008N   0.001%   0.001%   0.1737                   0  0.0000 O C 0   0.000
0.1649   0.001%   0.010    0.001%   0.002%   0.1778                 0  0.0000 %       0   0.000
0.166%   0.001%   0.011  0.002%   0.002%   0.1 823%                0  0.0000         0   0.00OOf
0.167%   0.002%   0.011   0.002%   0.002%   0.1835                 0 0.0000%         0   0.000
' | l   0.1689   0.002%   0.011%   0.002%   0.002%   0.185                  0  0.0000         0   0.00O0
0.169%   0.002%   0.0112   0.002%   0.002%   0.1886%                0  0.0000C        0   0.000f
201. 0.170%   0.002%   0.012   0.002%   0.002%   0.188                    0  0.0000        0   0.000
0.170   0.002%   0.012A   0.002%   0.002%   0.1880A               0  0.0000         0   0.000
. E   1._0.170%   0.002%   0.012A   0.002%   0.002%   0.188%                   0  0.0000         0   0.000
0.170%   0.002%   0.012N   0.002%   0.002%   0.188%                 0  0.0000         0  0.000
0.17094  0.002%   0.0123   0.002%   0.002%   0.1889                 0  0.0000         0   0.000
0.170%}  0.002%   0.013%   0.002%   0.002%    0.1890                0 0.0000          0   0.000
0.170%  0.002%   0.0134 0.002%   0.002%   0.190                     0  0.             0   0.000
0.170%   0.002%   0.0145   0.002%   0.003%   0.191                  0  0.0000         0   0.000
202.   0.170    0.002%   0.0159%  0.002%   0.003%   0.192              0.0270.005   0.0000   0   0.000
0.1698   0.002%   0.016*   0.002%   0.003%   0.192             0.0270  0.0000         0   0.000
0.1686%   0.002%   0.0176   0.002%   0.003%   0.193            0.070   0.0000         0   0.000
0.1662   0.002%   0.01 6%   0.002%   0.003%    0.189           0.125  O.=__              O.OOf
0.162%  0.002%   0.018%   0.002%   0.003%   0.1879%            0.180%  0.0000        _ 0   0.000
0.1561  0.002%   0.017%   0.002%   0.003%   0.1817             0.227  O.O0000%______
0.151N   0.002%   0.01 9    0.002%   0.004%   0. 177  ____   0__265_           ______    00
0.144    0.002%   0.019%   0.002%   0.004%1 0.170  0.296_          0.0000_  O  OO__
0.137%  0.002%   0.018%   0.002%   0.003%   0.162 % _    0.323%  0.0000%                  0 .000%
0.1269. 0.002%1 0.019%1 0.002%   0.004%   0.152                0343  0.0000         0   0.000



CONnATRAAL SAviNGs DEvELoPmEN PRooRAm                                                          ANNEX V
Page 31 Of 32
Cost to be Incurred by State Contributions to the New System of Pensions
(percentages)
259  S  ~0.33              0.0002               0.331
U  rll  0.33              0.0002               0.330
|  i i    0.33            0.0002               0326
0.32              0.0002              0.321
.     0.32            0.0002               0.317
0.31              0.0002              0.312
.1  0.31              0.0002              -0.308
0.30              0.0002               0.303
0.30              j.0002       -       0.298 
|    0.29            0.0002              0.293
.     0.29            0.0002               0.289
0.28              0.0002              0.284
.   0.28              0.0002               0.278
0.27                0,0002               0.273
| |   [ |    0.27            0.0002               0.268
| ~~~0.26                    0.0002               0.263 7
| gl3EE1   0.25              0.0002               0.253
| gllll.|1 0.25              0.0002               0.248
| lllllli  0.24              0.0002               0.243
| l"|||||g 0.24              0.0002         r     0.238
| -~~~0.23            r      0.0002        r      0.232
| #SllEl   0.23     70.0002                       0.227
|  S L    ~~0.22             0.0002         r     0.222
g ||gglX   0.22              0.0002               0.217
|    E    ~~0.21             0.0001l2             0.2028
|   2    ~ ~0.20    r0.0001                       0.203
| S.ESS    0.19     1        0.0001         1     0.193
.M.l2Mlll.gG 0.19   1        0.0001         1     0.189
n 2uSE.SlX 0.18    1        0.0001         1     0.184
g gl"gEE]  0.17     1        0.0001         1     0.175
E S.El    ~0.17     1        0.0001        7      0.171
|  l,     ~~0.17    1        0.0001         r     0.166
| gSllffl  0.16     1        0.0001         1     0.162
E    ,    ~~0.1S             0.0001         1     0.150
W SU320|g  0.15     1        0.0001         1     0.146
| l.0.9gES 0.14     1        0.0001         1     0.142
R lW"|Sl   0.14     1        0.0001         1     0.138-
R 2XMlllE1 0.13    I        0.0001         1     0.134
i   7    ~~0.12     7         .0001               0.124
| 23| -    0.12     1        0.0001         1     0.120
g lg|gl1   0.12     1        0.0001         1     0.117
E 269X>EE1  0.11    1        0.0001         1     0.114



ANNEX V                                                     CoNTRAcTuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 32 of 32
0.11             0.0001             0.110
0.11             0.0001             0.107
0.10             0.0001             0.104
0.10             0.0001             0.101
0.10             0.0001             0.098
0.10             0.0001             0.095
0.09             0.0001             0.093
0.09             0.0001             0.090
0.09             0.0001             0.087
0.08             0.0001             0.085
0.08             0.0001             0.082
0.08             0.0001             0.080
0.08             0.0001             0.078
0.07             0.0001             0.075
0.07             0.0001             0.073
0.07             0.0001             0.071
0.07             0.0000             0.069
0.07             0.0000             0.067
0.06             0.0000             0.065
0.06             0.0000             0.063
0.06             0.0000             0.061
0.06             0.0000             0.059
0.06             0.0000             0.057



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CURRENT PENSION SYSTEM
Introduction
With the passage of legislation in December 1995 reforming Mexico's Social Security
Law, Mexico has embarked on a fundamental shift from a publicly-managed, pay-as-you-go social
security system, which has been in place for more than fifty years, to a privately-managed, defined
contribution system. This annex describes the evolution of the current social security system and
its specific characteristics.
The Current IVCM2 System
Origin and Evolution
Mexico's Social Security Law was enacted in 1942. It laid the basis for the founding in
1943 of the Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social - IMSS).
Although the IMSS-managed pension program was designed to act as a collective fund, financed
from contributions from workers, employers and the state, in practice, it operated as a pay-as
you-go (PAYG) scheme as the fund's actuarial reserves were used to finance other social
insurance activities. The commingling of funds for the different insurance coverages has been a
key disincentive for improving the efficiency of IMSS' operations.
Affiliation grew rapidly, increasing from 1.1 million to 12 million contributors during the
period 1950-1970. Flush with workers' contributions, the social security scheme gradually
expanded in terms of benefits and institutions and financed growing public expenditures in other
social security programs, especially health. By the end of the 1970s, demographic changes
combined with a growing macroeconomic imbalances began to reverse the financial health of the
IVCM system.
Demographic Change and Inflation
From 1950 to 1970, Mexico's population grew at high rates, averaging 3% per year.
Economic growth was robust, achieving annual growth rates of 6% while inflation was running on
average at less than 4.5% per year.
In 1960, Mexico's population structure was youthful. Of 35 million inhabitants, only 5.6%
was older than 60 years, while 55% of total population was below 20 years of age. Over the next
several decades Mexico's population structure, as shown in Table I below had begun to shift as
the rate of population growth decreased and life expectancy began to rise (Table 2). By 1990,
Mexico's population had more than doubled at more than 81 million inhabitants. Population
growth averaged 1.9% during the 1990s.
This Annex is based on a draft prepared by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
2 IVCM is the Spanish acronym for Old Age. Severance, Disability and Life Insurance coverages.



ANNEX VI                                                      Contractual Savings Development Program
Page 2 of 4
Table 1. Population Structure by Age: 1960 and 1990
12000000
10000000
8000000
6000000
4000000-
2000000
0
'9  a  CD  a  u~~~~~  C  CD~   to CD   to ID   C      0    MI   C D  ml)
CD                      '?   q?  'U '       '   9    '9  '9             O?   O
CD            _ CD      . DD   _   am   _         CD   -   CD   -   CD     
_   _   C'  cI  Cw7  Cs   *   sr  CD  CD  ED  CD   r   N_  eo   
|lo 1960 m190 I
Table 2. Life Expectancy and Fertility and Mortality Rates
LieEpect,ancy       ~       ~       Rt             *tlt  Rtt
-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~G 11  Vl                   .........
:Xe .r-.E- ; flX xS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ..   .......     .. .....  .....  . ................ .... 
1970          61.19                       6.76                      n.a.
1975          63.93                       5.97                      n.a.
1980           66.68                      4.70                       6.5
1985           68.76                      3.88                       5.5
1990           70.83                      3.35                       5.1
1993          71.54                       3.07                      4.7
1/ Fertility rate per 1000 women between 15 and 49 years. Estimates by CONAPO, 1994.
2./ Mortality rate per 1000 inhabitants.
n.a. not available.
Source: President Salinas' Sixth State of the Union Address
Although Mexico's population pyramid continued to show an important share of young
people, lower population growth and mortality rates have resulted in a rapid aging of IMSS
contributors. These changes in population dynamics have lead to an increasing dependency ratio
in IMSS. In 1960, as seen in Table 3, there were four pensioners per one hundred contributors.
By 1994 this ratio increased to a 12.5 to one hundred.
Table 3. Pensioners as a Percent of the Insured Population
1960          1970           1980          1990          1994
IMSS         3.8            6.3           7.6            10.9          12.5
Source: President Salinas' Sixth State of the Union Address
This trend is expected to continue as shown in Table 4. Nevertheless, Mexico's current
demographic structure remains favorable for minimizing the fiscal costs of the reformed pension
system.



Contractual Savings Development Program                                           ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
Table 4. Elderly Dependency Ratio
160000              .               16.00%
140000         :      - :- . : -. ;.: ...  j :  .  : 14.00%
I  12000012
0
X   100000                    .         10.00%
O   80000                               8.00%
z   60000                               6.00%
o   40000                               4.00%
20000200
0                               0.00%
1990  2000  2010  2020  2030
YEARS
TOTAL POPULATION  POPULATION OVER 65 --*-ELDERLY DEPENDENCY RATIO
*Elderly dependency ratio = population over 65 years old/ working population
SOURCE: OECD
The high inflation of the 1980s led to a significant drop in real wages, which fell by 60%
between 1980 and 1994. Contributions to the IVCM system began to tail off with the fall in real
wages and the real value of pensions eroded. Today nearly 80% of IMSS pensioners receive the
minimum guaranteed pension, equivalent to the minimum wage. The weakened linkage between
contributions and benefits led to a growing (and largely correct) perception by employers and
workers of the IVCM scheme as a payroll tax. Evasion and under-reporting of wages for
qualifying and over-reporting for benefits increasingly occurred, further worsening the finances of
the IMSS-managed pension scheme.
The 1993 Reform
In a partial effort to address growing deficiencies in the pension system, the Government
introduced the Retirement Saving System (SAR) in 1993 which consisted of a new 2% employer
contribution to private and public sector employees channeled into individual retirement accounts.
These funds are collected by the commercial banking system and passed to the Central Bank,
which guarantees a real rate of return of 2 percent. More than 13.5 million individual SAR
accounts were opened by workers in the first year with contributions totaling NP$38.7 billion
(US$5.2 billion) by mid-1995.
Features of the IMSS-IVCM Pension System
Contributions. The total contribution per worker is equal to 8.5% of wages (2.12%
individual, 5.95% employer and 0.425% government). The contribution is distributed among the
different insurance coverages as follows:
*  Disability and death                 3.0%
*  Old Age and Severance                3.0%
*  Medical services for pensioners      1.5%
*  Administration expenses              0.6%
*  Social Assistance/                   0.4%
1/Includes cultural activities, theaters, vacation centers, etc.



ANNEX VI                                             Contractual Savings Development Program
Page 4 of 4
Requirements and Benefits
A comparison of eligibility requirements between the old and new pension system is
summarized in Table 6 below.
Table 6. Eligibility Requirements for Pensions under the Old and New Laws
Benefit           Old~c Law                  Ne   aw*
Disability              150 weekly contributions   250 weekly contributions
Professional Risks      150 weekly contributions   150 weekly contributions
Death                   150 weekly contributions   250 weekly contributions
Severance              500  weekly  contributions  1,250 weekly contributions
and 60 years old           and 60 years old
Old Age                 500  weekly  contributions  1,250 weekly contributions
and 65 years old           and 65 years old
* A week is legally defined as seven working days.
Disability. To fulfill the requirements for a disability pension, disability must be formally
proven. In legal terms, a disability exists when the insured worker is unable to obtain, according
to his capacity, professional qualifications and his last job situation, an income above 50% of the
his usual wage, and which a similar worker would receive in that same geographic region. Illness
or a non-professional accident or physical or mental exhaustion qualify. In order to receive
disability benefits, a worker must have contributed to the IVCM system for at least 150 weeks.
Despite the existence of a formal process for reviewing disability requests, there has been little
incentive for IMSS to enforce the rules. More than 30% of current pensioners have qualified for
disability pensions.
Old Age and Severance. In order to be entitled to receive an old age pension, it is
required that the insured is 65 years old, is currently working and has contributed a minimum of
500 weeks. The same conditions apply for severance except for the minimum age that is 60 years.
Death. In case of death, the survivor's pension is paid to the widow and/or dependents,
or, in case they do not exist, to the contributor's parents. The insured must have contributed at
least 150 weeks.
Minimum Pension. The IVCM system contains a guaranteed minimum pension equal to
the minimum wage. To address the erosion in the real value of pensions, in 1989 pensions were
indexed to changes in the minimum wage. At least 500 weeks of contributions are necessary to
qualify for the minimum pension. Pensions are paid according to a complicated formula as
contained in the old Social Security Law which favors workers at the bottom of the wage scale.
The pension base is calculated as a percentage of the average wage in nominal terms for the last 5
years, plus a fraction for each year of contribution in excess of 10. As wages are higher, the
percentage of the pension base is reduced. Pensions may never be higher than the average wage a
worker received for the previous 5 years of contributions. As a result of the formula, workers
earning more than five minimum wages subsidize minimum wage contributors. Benefits for low
income contributors are very high with respect to contributions. Similarly, workers with longer
periods of contribution subsidize workers contributing for only the minimum period required.



ANNEX VII
Page of 1 of 4
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
INFONA VIT
1.    The Mexican Constitution (Article 123) establishes a worker's right to housing provided by his or her
employer. The interpretation of this constitutional right, particularly how employers should comply with this
obligation, has varied since the promulgation of the Constitution in 1917. Prior to 1972, housing issues were largely
delegated to the states, or even ignored. In 1972 the Constitution was amended to establish a Fondo Nacional de la
Vivienda (National Housing Fund) into which employers would make contributions in benefit of individual employees
and thereby comply with their obligations. In the same year, the Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para
los Trabajadores (INFONAVIT) was created' to administer this Fund, and to establish and operate a financial
system that would permit workers to obtain inexpensive and sufficient housing loans. INFONAVIT's principal
source of funds is a 5% payroll tax that employers pay into the Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda on behalf of each
enrolled worker. In 1996 this inflow is expected to be N$7.75 billion (approximately US$ 1.0 billion)
2.    INFONAVIT is Mexico's principal pension fund for private sector workers and the country's largest single
source of housing finance. Since its founding, INFONAVIT has financed 1.3 million housing units, with about half
of those having been granted in the last seven years. Throughout its existence INFONAVIT has financed more
housing in each sexenio than in the previous one, and, a result, each Mexican President can rightfully claim to have
financed more housing through INFONAVIT than his predecessor. The projection for 1996 is for approximately
100,000 loans. (Table 1)
TABLE 1
:,            .    :.  : ,: :  D .   M .   :4      -  ::  -:
Originator                        Units              Millions N$
BANKS*                        138,839    36.3%       21,000    59.3%
OTHER**                      108,728    28.5%         4,593    13.0%
ThtEONAYIT         ,~*..  ::~.:.3       . .__. 0. :;.8. ...
FOVI                          40,585     10.6%        3,515     9,9%
FOVISSSTE                      3,564      0.9%          111     0.3%
TOTAL                        381,956    100.0%       35,409   100.0%
* Includes FOVI Program
** Includes Inmobiliarios which fund progressive housing
3.    INFONAVIT's structure reflects its mission to provide housing for organized labor. It is governed by a
General Assembly of forty-five members, equally divided among representatives of the Executive branch, unions and
employer organizations, and is headed by a Director General appointed by the President. All workers in the formal
sector are inscribed in the Fund2, which in turn is denominated as the housing subaccount of the SAR. As of July
1995 there were 9 million inscribed workers. INFONAVIT provides "social interest"3 housing loans to its members
for: (i) home mortgages; (ii) home improvement; and (iii) refinancing of existing (i.e. provided by private lenders)
home mortgages. Most of its loans are home mortgages, made at fixed rates averaging 6% per year on outstanding
balances, with maturities up to thirty years. Repayments are fixed at 20-25% of salary and indexed to changes in the
minimum wage. Though all employers must contribute on behalf of all employees, loans are made only to a subset of
members who must meet a number of eligibility criteria, including age, salary, contribution history and family size. In
ILey del Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores. published in the Diario Oficial de la
Federaci6n on April 24, 1972.
2 Inscription requirements are specified in Article 123 of the Constitution.
3 Housing directed at persons earning no more than three times the minimum wage.



ANNEX VII                                                    CoNTRAcTuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 2 of 4
practice, most loans are made to workers making 2-5 times the minimum wage. To carry out its mandate,
INFONAVIT operates much like a retail mortgage finance institution, employing about 4,000 people to originate and
service mortgages through a nationwide network of branch offices.
4.     From 1972 to 1992 INFONAVIT financed the construction of housing units which were then allocated to
eligible workers. Prompted by a deteriorating financial situation, a lack of transparency in awarding housing to
workers, and significant evasion or underreporting by employers, the Government introduced a series of reforms in
1992:
*      INFONAVIT was required to implement a public bidding process for the construction of housing
projects, and was prohibited from owning land. This effectively moved INFONAVIT out of the
housing development business and into housing finance.
*     A points system-based on salary, age, balance in the account, the number of payments made by the
employer and the number of dependents-was introduced to determine eligibility for an
INFONAVIT loan.
*     Workers were also allowed to purchase used or new housing on the open market, i.e. without having
to buy in INFONAVIT sponsored projects.
*     Accounts were "individualized" and linked to the SAR. Thereafter, each INFONAVIT account was
considered the housing subaccount of the SAR.
i      INFONAVIT was required to manage its finances in such a way as to distribute annual profits to
workers' accounts, and, as a minimum, maintain the real value of these same accounts.
i      Steps were taken to improve INFONAVIT's financial prospects, e.g. 100% loan recovery (based on
an average 6% interest rate on the unpaid balance adjusted by the minimum wage increase) and the
requirement that operating expenses should not exceed 0.75% of total resources.
5.    The 1992 reforms were only partially successful. There have been four major problems. First, the housing
developers have been able to circumvent the bidding process. Direct financing of housing construction was to be
eliminated and a bidding process for INFONAVIT projects was to be introduced in its place. Under this process
INFONAVIT would prepare a housing project and puts its construction out to bid. The winning developer then
would obtain a bridge loan from a bank, knowing that mortgage finance will be forthcoming from INFONAVIT. The
reforms allowed for direct construction finance (i.e. no bidding), however, in cases where an individual was already
the owner of the land. In such case an eligible worker could simply present a project to INFONAVIT, and assuming
that the project met financial, technical and legal standards, the worker could select a developer and construction
company. In practice, however, developers have deeded their land to a trust in benefit of a group of workers who
then present the project to INFONAVIT for direct financing. This avoids the bidding process and allows developers
to operate in a pre-1992 fashion. Second, there continue to be administrative obstacles to financing housin2
purchased in the open market. The reforms were intended to introduce an element of competition in social interest
housing and in local housing data banks. Under this scheme eligible workers could participate, for example, in
housing projects financed by other government institutions (e.g. FOVI). At the same time the opportunity to
purchase used housing was viewed as a step towards opening a potentially large market in used housing. Prior to
1992, such housing was not eligible for financing. Eligible workers, however, have been steered away from open
market purchases by a series of administrative obstacles, such as the requirement for INFONAVIT's technical review
and approval of the purchase. Moreover, beginning in March 1995 INFONAVIT authorized only credits in projects
financed under the bidding process or the trust fund ownership scheme. Third, the reforms did not solve the major
issue of rationing of housing credits. Eligibility for housing, based on the points system, far outpaces the number of
credits that INFONAVIT in a given year. The point system was introduced to provide a fair, transparent mechanism
for allocating credits under such circumstances. While it has succeeded to a degree, rationing of housing persists.
The number of eligible workers far exceeds, however, the available credits. As a result INFONAVIT is forced to
revise the eligibility cutoff level every two months, and in practice raises it to make a smaller number of workers
eligible for credits. And, finally, the "individualization" of the SAR accounts (of which INFONAVIT is the housing
subaccount) has been slow to materialize.



CoNTRAcTuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PRoGRAM                                                  ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
6.     More fundamentally, INFONAVIT faces additional issues - beyond the fine-tuning of operating procedures
that has taken place since 1992 - that raise questions about its role in the pension system. Today, INFONAVIT is
saddled with conflicting objectives: to operate a housing finance system that provides inexpensive credit for workers
and to maintain, as a minimum, the real value of individual workers' contributions to the Fund.4 INFONAVIT is
part of a highly segmented housing finance system and was conceived to address a specific market niche. It operates
as a retail lender with a captive source of funds, and provides subsidized credit under vauge underwriting standards.
Such activities crowd out other sources of market-based housing finance and, moreover, provide an ineffective
targeting of subsidies. INFONAVIT's optimal future role, fully consistent with its Constitutional mandate, is that of
an indirect investor in the housing sector, i.e. as a purchaser of housing finance instruments issued by banks, FOVI
and other institutions.
7.    INFONAVIT lacks an appropriate governance structure. Its General Assembly is dominated by potential
beneficiaries, i.e. labor unions and property developers, with no countervailing supervisory or regulatory authority.
8.     The principal consequence of these fundamental issues and the failure of the 1992 reforms is that
INFONAVIT is a weak financial link in the pension system. Real rates of return have been negative in past years. Its
portfolio is weak, characterized by excessive number of overdue accounts ( 42% of accounts are estimated to be
overdue more than 12 months). Mortgage servicing systems are weak and by law workers are not required to
continue making payments when they lose their jobs. Loan recovery rates (net present value basis) are less than
100%, due to underwriting standards that permit excessive borrowing at less than market rates. Overall, individual
account holders are forced to absorb these losses. Workers are paid two times the actual level of their contributions,
less than one-fifth what they would receive had their contributions earned a 2% real rate of return (Table 2 below).
4 Articles 3 and 39, respectively, of the Ley del Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores.



ANNEX VII                                            CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 4 of 4
TABLE 2
T EACTUAIA     B L N E FA     ......................
YEAR         ANNUAL                     ANNUAL INTEREST RATE
CONTRIBUTION      CPP      INFLATION | 2%  REAL RATE
1972           0.84           0.07        0.05          0.06
1973           1.34           0.19        0.47          0.52
1974           1.80           0.38        0.93          1.04
1975           2.16           0.70        0.85          1.02
1976           2.67           1.20        3.02          3.35
1977           3.30           1.89        3.61          4.11
1978           3.70           3.06        4.01          4.72
1979           4.97           4.62        9.31         10.54
1980           5.94           8.04       14.59         16.56
1981           7.70          15.60       20.45         23.43
1982          17.79          35.54      108.30        118.62
1983          27.55          85.57      198.25        218.36
1984          44.85         143.83      289.16        322.48
1985          67.20         276.34      538.15        602.22
1986         116.52         716.09    1,584.96       1,761.28
1987         245.83       1,748.27    5,301.79      5,871.65
1988         476.36       2,632.08    4,709.05      5,364.89
1989         571.10       3,245.42    2,834.55      3,456.04
1990         767.83       4,184.59    5,379.29      6,427.96
1991         973.44       3,710.30    4,576.61      5,730.76
1992         188.95       3,818.87    3,464.00      4,652.53
TOTAL       N$3,531.84      24,164.50    32,573.25     38,123.98
2
Actual
Amount      N$7,063.68
Earned
Actual Earnings/Potential     29.23%      21.69%         18.53%
Earnings



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Economic Indicators
Actual                                                            Projected
Indicator            1990       1991      1992       1993       1994      1995         1996       1997      1998       1999       2000       2005
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market pnces)
Gross domestic product           100.0      100.0      100.0     1000       1000       100.0       1000       1000       100.0      1000      100.0      1000
Agriculturea                      9.1       8 9        8 4        8.2       8 0        8.2
Industry'                       30 3       29 6       291        28.2      281        27 8
Servicesa                       60.6       61.4       62 5      63 6       64 0       64 0
Total Consumption                 78 3       79.7       81.0      81 0       81 6      777          78.7       780        773       76.7       763        75 1
Gross domestic                    22.8       23 4       24.4      23 2       23 5       19.4        19 2       20 6       21.9      23 7       24 2       26 3
investment
Govenmient investment            4 8        4 5        4.1       4.1        4 2        41           3 8       4.1        4 3        4 6       4 6        4 8
Private investment               136       147        163        159       16.1       123          120       13.2       143        158        16.1      176
Increaseinstocks                 45         4.2        39         32        3.1        31           3.3       33         33         3.3       34         39
Exports (GNFS)b                   15.6       13 6       12.4      12.2       12 7      24 0         26 2       27 8       29 2      301        30 7       31.3
Imports (GNFS)                    16 7       16 8       17.9      16.4       17 8      21.2         241        26.5       28 4      30 5       311        32.7
Gross domestic savings            21.7       20.3      19 0       19 0       18.4      22.3         21 3       22 0      22 7       23 3       23.7       24 9
Grossnationalsavings'             198        18.4       170       169        16.0       187         17.9       190        200       216        221        243
Memorandum items
Grossdomesticproduct          247057    290529    334356    367581    377112    250038          289920    305128    324538    348739    376597    556562
(US$ million at current
prices)
Grossnationalproductper         2450      2981       3490       3810      4090       3320         2964      2897       3223       3445       3658      5100
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at       444%      3.6%       2 9%       0.7%      3 5%      -69%          3 0%/     3 5%       4 0%       5 0l/      5.0%      5 3%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income           56%/      3.2%       32%        08%       3.4%     -11 1%         23%       31%        36%        4.7%       48%       5 1%
Total consumption               55%       48%        37%        04%       35%      -11.7%         0.4%      08%        2.1%       34%        40%       4 5%
Private consumption             6.1%      4 9%       3.9%       02%       3 7%     -12.9%         1 0%       1 2%      2 3%       3 5%       40%       45%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1980 pnces)
Gross domesticproduct at        0.5%       1.6%      09%       -12%        1.6%     -86%          1.1':    17%        22%        33%.       3.4,:      37%
macket pnces
(Continued)



ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Economic Indicators (continued)
Actual                                                             Projected
Indicator            1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995         1996       1997       1998      1999       2000       2005
Public flnance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Currentrevenues                   27.0       25.8      26.1       25.4       25.6       26.9         25.4       25.5       25.7       26.0       26.2       26.6
Current expenditures              26.3       22.5      20.6       21.8       21.8       23.1         22.6       22.8       22.5       22.4       22.2       21.6
Current account surplus(+)         0.7        3.3       5.5        3.6        3.8        3.8          2.8        2.7        3.2        3.6        4.0        5.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                3.8        3.9        4.0       3.3        4.2        3.7          3.5        3.7        3.8        3.9        4.2        4.9
OverallBalance                    -3.1       -0.6        1.5       0.3       -0.4        0.1         -0.7       -1.0       -0.6       -0.3       -0.3        0.1
Monetary Indicators
M2IGDP (at current market         26.3       30.7       31.3      32.0       34.9       38.5           ..                     .          .          .
pnces)
Growth ofM2(%)                    46.2       47.1      20.3       13.4       21.3       38.7
Pnvatesectorcreditgrowthl         83.7      105.2     161.5      193.3      139.9       43.1
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1980 =100)
Merchandise exportprice           87.3       82.3       84.9       86.4      95.8      110.6        112.1      115.1      118.7      122.1      125.1      139.8
index
Merchandisenimportprice          1344       135.6      137.1     138.5      141.7      153.5        151.0      154.7      158.9      162.8      166.7      188.2
index
Merchandise terms of trade        65.0       60.7       61.9       62.4      67.6       72.0         74.2       74.4       74.7       75.0       75.0       74.3
index
Real exchange rate               128.8      117.5     107.4      101.5      105.3      152.8        135.0      135.0      135.0      135.0      135.0      135.0
(US$/LCU)'
Consutnerpriceindex             26.7%      22.7%      15.5%       9.8%      7.1%      34.9%        39.0%      19.8%      10.8%       80%        6.0%       5.0%
(% growth rate) (period average)
Consumerpriceindex              29.9%      18.8%      11.9%       8.0%      7.0%      51.3%        27.0%      12.5%       9.0%       7.0%       5.0%       5.0%
(% growth rate) (end-of-period)
GDP deflator                    29.8%      21.8%      14.7%       9.9%      7.4%      35.4%        33.8%      17.8%       9.8%       7.2%       5.6%       4.9%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are at market prices.
b "GN'FS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Consolidated non-financial public sector.
e. "lCU" denotes 'local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex IX
Page 1 of I
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Balance of Payments
Actual                                                             Projected
Indicator               1990       1991       1992       1993       1994      1995         1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2005
(IJS$m)
Exports (GNFS)'               38411      39695      41451      44872      50717      63532       76070      84948      94695    105119    115434    174227
Merchandise FOB             30390      30905      32259      35453      40416      53362       65047      72923      81138      89896      98781    148078
Imports (GNFS)'               41215     48725      59681      60473      71136      55203        69937      80734      92258    106427    117253    182047
Merchandise FOB             31272      38184      48193      48924      58880      46274        57816     67574      77065      89197      98405    152521
Resource balance               -2804     -9030    -18230    -15601    -20419          8329         6133      4214        2437      -1308      -1819     -7819
Net current transfers          3978       2745       3386       3640       4011       3965         4101       4354      4520       4525       4803      10601
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance       -7451    -14892    -24438    -23399    -29419             -655      -3563     -4967      -6276      -7163      -7735    -11254
(aiter official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct     2633       4761       4393       4389      10973       6964         5800      6000       6400       7100       9600       9700
investment
Long-tern loans (net)          9224       4171           51    3227        4271       7817           354      1836         363      1749          78    -1802
Official                      4181       1392          620         20       -624   10341        -7113         -385    -2718       -3343      -1088        -123
Private                       5043       2779         -569    3207        4895      -2524         7467      2221        3080      5092       1166       -1680
Othercapital(net including     -1175     14099      21168      21724      -4216      -3275        -1991       1308       1155       1570      3813       6622
errors and omissions)
Change inreserves'             -3231      -8139     -1174      -5941      18391    -10851           -600    -4177      -1642      -3256      -5756      -3266
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of           -1 1%      -3 1%      -5.5%      -4.2%      -5.4%      3.3%         2.1%       1 4%       0 8%      -0 4%      -0.5%      -1.4%
GDP at current market
prices)
Current account balance (% of    -3.0%      -5.1%      -7 3%      -6.4%      -7.8%      -0 3%        -1 2%     -1.6%      -1.9%      -2 1%      -2.1%      -2.0%
GDP at current market
prices)
Reservesinrnonths of imports        38         5.6        47        6.2        13         4.4          32         3.1        2.7        2.4        2.5        3.6
of goods
a 'GNFS' denotes 'goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.






ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
External Capital and Debt
Actual                                                             Projected
Indicator            1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995         1996       1997       1998       1999      2000       2005
Totaldebtoutstandingand       104439    114065    112227    127436    136125    161096            159048    159731    160730    161155    159889    173482
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a      17637      10117       2162       4798       7475      16466        -6295      -2629     -2581       -3107     -4463         -410
Total debtservice (TDS)        11316      13545      20822      21931      19938      29206        39280      34481     41118      45909      47374      50296
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                         25.9      249.5      238.6      254.7      239.9     229.7        191.4      173.4      157.2      142.8      129.5       91.4
TDO/GDP                          42.3       39.3       33.6       34.7       36.1       64.4        54.9       52.3       49.5       46.2       42.5       31.2
TDS/XGS                          25.9       29.6       44.3       43.8       35.1      41.6         47.3       37.4       40.2       40.7       38.4       26.5
TDS/(XGS+ curenttransfers        26.7       31.9       46.4       45.2       36.4      43.3         48.9       38.6       41.4       41.9       394        27.2
ConcessionaVTDO                   1.0        1.0        1.1        1.1        1.2        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRDDS/publicDS                  16.2       16.6       11.2       15.5       15.1       13.2          8.4      11.0        9.1        8.2        7.8        8.3
PreferredcreditorDS/public       39.3       36.5       22.9       33.3       31.1       24.1        21.5       25.9       26.2       31.0       24.9       14.6
DS
IBRDDS/XGS                        3.6        4.0        4.0        3.8        3.5        3.4         3.0        2.8        2.5        2.4        2.2        1.4
ShareoflBRDportfolio             11.4       11.7       121        11.9       11.8      12.0         12.3       12.4       11.9       11.1       10.2        8.2
IFC (US$m)
Loans                             119         69         67        53        133         63          194        310        340        375        400        420
Equity and quasi-equityc           20         60         64        36         21         12           38         75         85         90        100        105
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USS$m)             0          0          0         0          0          0            0          ..        ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IvF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. 'XGS' denotes exports of goods and services, including workers remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instuments.






ANNEX Xl
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
STA TUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATiONS IN MEXICO
A. S TA TEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 27, 1996)
ORIO]NAL AMouNT iN US$ MITIIONS
LOAN OR
CREDIT      FISCAL              BORROWER                              PURPOSE                    IBRD        IDA       UNDISBTURSED
No.        YEAR
L28240        1987    BANOBRAS                         URBN TRNSPRT I                              125.00        0.00             8.63
L29160        1988    NAFINSNC                          STEELRSTRCTRNG                             400.00        0.00               .56
L32720        1991     NAFIN                            BASICHEALTH                                180.00        0.00             11.77
L33590        1991     NAFIN                            MINING SCTR                                200.00        0.00            51.93
133580        1991     NAFIN                            VOCTRNGSCTR                                152.00        0.00            22.52
L34190        1992    NAFINSA                           IRRIGSCTR                                  400.00         0.00          115.55
L34750        1992    NAFIN                             SCIENCE/TECH                               189.00         0.00            10.03
134070        1992     NAFIN                            PRIMARY EDUCATION                          250.00         0.00           26.85
L34970        1992     GOVERNMENTOFMEXICO               HOUSINGMARKETDEVEL                         450.00        0.00            47.35
134610        1992                                      ENVIRON/NATURLRESOU                         50.00        0.00             5.61
135590        1993     BANOBRAS                         MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                       200.00         0.00          169.85
135430        1993     NAFIN                            TRNSPRT AIR POLL CON                       220.00        0.00           123.08
L35180        1993     GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO            INITIAL EDUCATION                            80.00        0.00            46.92
L36280        1993     BANOBRAS                        HWY RHB & SAFETY                            480.00        0.00           273.16
L35420        1993     NAFIN                           LABORMARKET&PROD.                           174.00        0.00            50.51
L37520        1994    BANOBRAS                          SOLID WASTEII                              200.00        0.00            55.31
L37040        1994    NAFIN                            ON-FARM&MINORIRRI                           200.00        0.00           149.90
L37510        1994     BANOBRAS                        WATER/SANIT II                              350.00        0.00           219.21
L37500        1994     BANOBRAS                        N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                        368.00        0.00           178.88
127220        1994    NAFIN                            PRIM.EDUC.II                                412.00        0.00           313.61
L38380        1995    NAFINSA                          FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                           23.60        0.00            17.67
138381        1995     NAFINSA                         FINANCIALSECT.A.                             13.80        0.00            13.80
L38050        1995    NAFIN                             TECH EDU/TRAING                            265.00        0.00           212.89
L39120        1995     NAFIN                           ESSENTIALSOCIALSER                          500.00        0.00           192.23
137780        1995     GOVERNMENT                       RAINFED AREAS DEVELO                        85.00        0.00            63.72
137900        1995     SEDESOL                          SECOND DECENTRALZTN                        500.00        0.00           345.89
L39370        1996     NAFIN                           INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA                          30.00        0.00            27.05
L39430        1996     NAFIN                           BASIC HLTH II                               310.00        0.00           297.00
L40500        1996     GOM                              WATER RESOURCES MANA                       186.50        0.00           186.50
L41010        1997     TBD                             RURALFIN. MKTS T.A.                          30.00        0.00            30.00
7,023.90       0.00          3,267.99
Active Loans       Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  3,066.42            17,997.81           21,064.23
of which has been repaid:                      211.57              8,892.88            9,104.45
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  6,122.84             9,104.93            15,227.77
Amount sold:                                         0.00               92.34                92.34
Of which repaid:                                   0.00                92.34               92.34
Total Undisbursed:                               3,267.99                0.00             3,267.99
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of hnplementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio
perfomiance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see
proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.



ANNEX XI                                                     CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OFIFC'S
COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(as of August 31, 1996)
(US$ million)
COMMITTED                         DISBURSED
----IFC-                              I
FY
APPROVAL        COMPANY         LOAN   EQUITY   QUASI PARTIC  LoAN  EQUITY   QUASI   PARTIC
1978       TEMEX                 0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1979       Camino Real           0.00      2.27    0.00    0.00   0.00      2.27     0.00      0.00
1979       CONDUMONT             0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1981       Camino Real           0.00       .83    0.00    0.00   0.00      .83      0.00      0.00
1984       Metalsa               0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1984       Primex                0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1986       Camino Real           0.00      1.10    0.00    0.00   0.00      1.10     0.00      0.00
1987       CALICA                4.37      0.00    0.00    0.00   4.37      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987       Metalsa               0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987       VULICA               12.00      0.00    0.00    0.00  12.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1988       Apasco                5.75      0.00    0.00    0.00   5.75      0.00     0.00      0.00
1988       Sigma                 0.00      0.00    .50     0.00   0.00      0.00     .50       0.00
1989       Banca Serfin         40.00      0.00    0.00    0.00  40.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989       Cemex                 5.57      0.00    0.00    3.00   5.57      0.00     0.00      3.00
1989       Grupo FEMSA          20.00    16.78    0.00     0.00  20.00     16.78     0.00      0.00
1990       Banca Serfin          0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1990       BANAMEX              26.77      0.00    0.00    6.35  24.37      0.00     0.00      6.35
1990       Condumex             12.41      0.00    0.00    8.69  12.41      0.00     0.00      8.69
1990       Indelpro              9.92      0.00    6.25    .38   9.92       0.00     6.25       .38
1990       PetrOcel             10.40      0.00    4.80    5.60  10.40      0.00     4.80      5.60
1990       Primex                 .60      0.00    3.51    2.00    .60      0.00     3.51      2.00
1991       Apasco                0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1991       Condumex              0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1991       CALICA               10.09      0.00    0.00    0.00  10.09      0.00     0.00      0.00
1991       CONDUMONT              .22      0.00    0.00    0.00    .22      0.00     0.00      0.00
1991       GIBSA                12.02      0.00    0.00    47.50  12.02     0.00     0.00     47.50
1991       Indelpro              0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1991       Vitro                 0.00    10.17    0.00     0.00   0.00     10.17     0.00      0.00
1991       Vitro Flotado        15.65      0.00    0.00    31.79   15.65    0.00     0.00     31.79
1991       CEDETEL               4.38      .77   10.00    30.26   1.88      .77    10.00      30.26
1992       Aislantes Leon        3.50      0.00    3.50    0.00   3.50      0.00     3.50      0.00
1992       Apasco                0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992       Banorte-Arancia       5.74      0.00    0.00    0.00   5.74      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992       Banorte-SABROZA       3.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   3.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992       BANAMEX               0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992       Grupo Posadas        12.74      0.00    0.00   34.94  12.74      0.00     0.00     34.94
1992       GrUpo Probursa        0.00      7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00      7.50     0.00      0.00
1992       Indelpro              1.25      0.00    1.17    0.00   1.25      0.00     1.17      0.00
1992       Toluca Toll Road      8.99      0.00    0.00    0.00   8.99      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992       Vitro                 0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1992       Banorte-PYOSA         7.62      0.00    0.00    0.00   7.62      0.00     0.00      0.00
1993       Apasco                6.00      0.00    0.00    44.00   6.00     0.00     0.00     44.00
1993       Derivados            11.00      0.00    0.00   24.07  11.00      0.00     0.00     24.07
1993       GrUpo Posadas         0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1993       GIDESA               15.00      8.00    0.00    38.25  15.00     8.00     0.00     38.25
1993       Masterpak            12.00      0.00    0.00   25.93  12.00      0.00     0.00     25.93
1993       GOTM                  1.55      2.00    0.00    1.98   1.55      2.00     0.00      1.98
1994       Aurum-Heller          0.00       .98    0.00    0.00   0.00      .98      0.00      0.00



CoNTRAcTuAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                     ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC'S
COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(as ofAugust 31, 1996)
(US$ million)
COMMITTED                          DISBURSED
- -----WIFC--
FY
APPROVAL        COMPANY         LOAN   EQUITY   QUASI PARTIC  LOAN   EQUITY    QUASI   PARTIC
1994        CTAPV                 5.00      0.00    2.31    0.00   5.00       0.00     2.31       0.00
1994       Interceramic          15.00      0.00    6.00    17.50  15.00      0.00     6.00      17.50
1994       Metalsa               11.00      0.00    6.00    42.00   11.00     0.00     6.00      42.00
1994       MEXCOBRE              22.38      0.00    0.00    31.33  22.38      0.00     0.00      31.33
1994        Sigma                20.00      5.00    0.00    20.00  20.00      5.00     0.00      20.00
1994       TEMEX                 18.92      0.00    0.00    18.33   18.92     0.00     0.00      18.33
1995       Apasco                20.00      0.00    0.00    80.00  20.00      0.00     0.00      80.00
1995       Baring Mex. FMC        0.00      .15    0.00     (.00   0.00       .15      0.00       0.00
1995       Baring Venture         0.00      6.50    0.00    0.00   0.00       .98      0.00       0.00
1995       Cifunsa               18.00      0.00    0.00    12.00  18.00      0.00     0.00      12.00
1995        Grupo Posadas         0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   (.00       0.00     0.00       0.00
1995       Mexplus Puertos        0.00      1.04    0.00    0.00   0.00       1.04     0.00       0.00
1995       MEXCOBRE               0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00
1995        Sigma                 0.00      0.00    0.00    12.00   0.00      0.00     0.(0      12.00
1996       Aurum-Heller           0.00      1.00    (.00    0.((   0.0(       1.00     0.00       0.00
1996       Baring Mex. FMC        0.00      .03    0.00     0.00   0.00       .02      0.00       0.00
1996       Grupo Posadas         15.00      5.00    5.00    25.00   15.00     5.00     5.00      25.00
1996        GrUpo Probursa        0.00      .98    0.00     0.00   0.00       .98      0.00       0.00
1996       GIBSA                 30.00      0.00   10.00   100.00  30.00      0.00    10.00     100.00
1996       Metalsa                0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00
1996       NEMAK                 24.00      0.00    6.00    35.00   0.00      0.00     6.00       0.00
1997        Grupo Probursa        0.00      .57    0.00     0.00   0.00       .57      0.00       0.00
Pending Commitments
1996        * BANCO             100.00      0.00    0.00    200.00
NACIONAL
1996        * GIRSAI             30.00      0.00   10.00    115.00
1996        * PROBURSA RI II      0.00      .23    0.00     (.00






ANNEX XII
Page I of 2
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARYDATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country
to prepare the loan:                  13 months
(b)   Project prepared by:                   Ministry of Finance (SHCP) and CONSAR
(c)   First presentation to the Bank:        September 1995
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:        May 1996
(e)   Completion of Negotiations:            October 2, 1996
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:         November/December 1996
Section II:   Special Implementation Actions
None
Section m: Special Conditions
Actions taken before Board Presentation:
(i)    Reform of Old Age Insurance System: Congress approved reforms to the Social Security
Law to reform IMSS and move to a defined contribution scheme for private sector workers;
(ii)   Regulation of pension fund administrators and supervision of the reformed system:
enacted the Ley de Coordinaci6n de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro containing guiding
principles acceptable to the Bank; finalized of draft key regulations on fund administration and
the investment management regime containing guiding principles acceptable to the Bank;
(iii)  Fiscal transition costs: (a) completed sensitivity analysis and satisfactory evaluation of actuarial
methodologies and data base; (b) agreed to publish annually the actuarial income and expenses
for IVCM programs to make fiscal transition costs explicit; (c) adopted transfer arrangements
for accumulated SAR balances (5/1992-1996) from the central bank to AFOREs over a period
of four years;
(iv)   INFONAVIT: initiated measures to improve financial performance including: (a) initiation of a
regular supervisory process by CNBV; and (b) establishement of disclosure requirements for the
returns obtained by INFONAVIT; and
(v)   Account individualization and strengthening of IMSS: (a) CONSAR signed agreements
with IMSS, ISSSTE, and INFONAVIT to use one number to uniquely identify SAR and
SIEFORE accounts and to interchange and reconcile account information for each contributor;
(b) CONSAR issued circulars providing rules for identification of accounts and account transfers
and to individualize aggregated contributions of multiple contributors; and (c) special agreement
signed between CONSAR/SHCP and IMSS to strengthen its capacity to manage the
implementation of the new operational scheme.



ANNEX XII                                        CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEvELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 2 of 2
The following policy actions would be taken prior to Effectiveness:
(i)    Regulation of pension fund administrators and supervision of the reformed system:
issuance by CONSAR of key regulations containing guiding principles acceptable to the
Bank; and
(ii)   Investment management rules: issuance by CONSAR of key regulations containing a
series of general principles governing investment management rules and principles
acceptable to the Bank.



ANNEX XHI
Page I of 2
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
_______________                         MEXICO AT A GLANCE
PE~~~~~~~~~~~T~~~~~~~~AL ~ ~      ~        ~         r: uIo                                    .. ........le
'!wdrb;.: ....om      Development diamond*
.... .. .. m .d..0 ...lna                                    .....    . 442.                Life expectancy
GNP p~~r~spita ~~9954US$-)  332                    :332       430Q4
P~UIatott~% .  ....... . ..G.
L                                                      $         ,         7Gross
.  ...  .....per                                               primary
Ott.i"      s                               e ha  !O)                                capita                          enrollment
~~ovey:ad~~untinde%ofpopL~~~Iaf0. .. .... .      3
L   0expectanoy a                               ....eaa)7 .. 
Child mnlnutrittott (~~~~ c#ch#(o*eituodeo'5) ~Access to safe water
llIoteyf~~~dpopuM~~oita~e 154   .......... 
.1 ~~~~~     v~~~o ~   13            Mexico
.'Upper-middle-in come group
is7~~~~   1~4    ~~           Economic ratioe*
*  23,5   19.4                ~~~~Openness of economy
PO., ...... iqP$ Av'0s(IP          .          i d5,               18.4.. ;
.  .                             -4.4      0.4 ~ic       . 5  ~.          vng                         nesmn
P*0$e,K~~~~~~~~~r~~~)P  .  .                          32.7~...  . ...
P~esntvakePlebV~.. .  .........        .                                   ..Idetdns
( qf~~~~~~~~~t~~~~~W tl~~~~~~~~~       .... ....        ...   . ... .        -Me    ic
(% of GDP)                                                                   Growth rates of output andInvestment %
Serice                                        59.4     57.4.64.0.64.1..
Prvt con. uptio                                71..64..70..67.
.aerg  annual. grormidlwncmegru
Agrculur                                        3.G03               4.P-.                Growth rates of exortsu and invsmeort I/%
Industry                                       59.2     23.4       48.1     -78.       1o
Manufacturing                                 41.4     23.8      39 6      1-.4      I20
Services                                       59.4     27.0        340     -67         40
Private consumption                             41.1    34.8       370.     -12.9     .20GD
General government consumption                  6.6      1.2       21. 5     0-4.      2
Imports of goods and non-factor services        2.8     13.3       12.9    -27.6
Agrossuntiona prdc3.5                                    2.2        3.1     -38.        Grwh -aesoexports andimportsI%
IThediaoduhwsorkyiniaosintecutryi  od compared4. witit inoegopaeae.I3aaaemsin,tedaodwl
brvae iconsmplte.                                                  372



ANNEX XIII                                                                   CONTRACTUAL SAViNGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Page 2 of 2
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985     1994    1995    inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                  40
Consumer prices (period average)           ..   57.7        7.1    34.9
Implicit GDP deflator (period average)    15.5    56.2      7.4    35.4   20
Govemment f1nance                                                           c
(% of GDP)                                                                         90   01   92   93   94   95
Current revenue                             ..   31.5      25.6    26.9
Current budget balance                      ..   -1.6       3.8      3.8
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..   -6.2      -0.4      0.1           -GDPdet.        CPI(periodaye)
TRADE
1976    1986     1994    1996       Export and Import levels (mill. US$
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                        .. 22931    40416   53362
Fuel                                      .. 14767      7445    8422       80000
n.a.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40000  arhl
Manufactures                               .  6245    29936   40379        400 -11r _
Total imports (cif)                         .. 14533    58880   46274        20000                      I 11.L + 11
Food                                      ..1082        9510    5335
Fuel and  energy                           ..__ _I___ _I___ __ _ __ __ _
Capital goods                              ..  3165    13322    8697              89  90  01  92  93  94  95
Export price index (1987=100)               ..    125       110     122
Import price index (1987=100)               ..     99       119     123                    C Exports O Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                    .    127        93      99     _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985     1994    1995
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and non-factor services  6066   27726    50717   63532          Current account balance to GDP rafto (%)
Imports of goods and non-factor services  8466   19915    71136   55203     0
Resource balance                       -2400    7811   -20419    8329             90   91  92  03  94  99
Netfactorincome                        -1783   -8996   -13012  -12948
Net current transfers                      59  1986      4011    3965      4- .
Current account balance,
before official transfers            -4124       801  -29419      -655 3 L
Financing items (net)                  4327   -3222    11028   11505        -8
Changes in net reserves (- = increase)   -204  2421    18391  -10850
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)    1897    4997      6300   16870
Conversion rate (loca/US$, pe3iod average) 1.25E-02  0.3    3.4      6.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986     1994    1995
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed  18231   96867      136125  161096
IBRD                                  1123    4034    13038   13824
IDA                                       0       0         0       0       Composition of total debt,1995 lii. US$)
Total debt service                      2613   15293    19938   29206                    G        A C
IBRD                                    116     597    1990    2375                  3584e   1369861
IDA                                       0       0         0       0                              D
Composition of net resource flows                                                          t        48I9
Official grants                           8      78        47        .                            19755
Official creditors                      381     809      -623 10341                      F
Private creditors                    3365      -831    4985   -2424                    70866
Foreign direct investment               609     491   10973    6964
Portfolio equity                          0       0    4088       519
World Bank program
Commitments                             310     928    2815    1877        A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                           188     840       943  1733        B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                     39     335    1065    1411        C-IMF                      G- Short-term
Netflows                                150     505      -123     322
Interest payments                        78     262       924     964
Net transfers                            72     243   -1046      -642






1-4
CD
['-.
Li
CL4
T-               N-
<t~~~~~~f 'I
CE          l~~~~1) >-
lC  E- F



