Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17771
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CSDP)
Loan No. 4123-ME
May 5, 1998
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure (FPSI)
Country Management Unit 1
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Peso (P)
US$1.00                    P$8.0 (January 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December3;
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP               Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones
(Pension Fund Administrator - Chile)
AFORE             Administradora de Fondos para el Retiro
(Pension Fund Administrator)
AMAFORE           Asociacion Mexicana de Administradoras de Fondospara el Retiro
(Mexican Association of Pension Funds Administrators)
BANOBRAS          Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N. C.
(National Bank of Public Works and Services)
CNBV              Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores
(National Banking and Securities Commission)
CONSAR            Comision Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro
(National Commission of the Retirement Savings System)
FOBAPROA          Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorro
(Bank Fund for Savings Protection)
FOVI              Fondo de Operaci6n y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda
(Housing Financing Trust Fund)
FOVISSSTE         Fondo para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE
(Govemment Workers' Housing Fupid)
FSRL              Financial Sector Restructuring Loan
FSRP              Financial Sector Restructuring Program
FTAL              Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
IMSS              Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social
(Mexican Social Security Institute)
INFONAVIT         Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda de los Trabajadores
(National Workers' Housing Fund Institute)
ISSSTE            Instituto de Seguridady Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado
(Institute of Security and Social Services for Govemment Workers)
IV                Seguro de Invalidez y Vida
(Disability and Life Insurance)
IVCM              Invalidez, Vejez, Cesantia en EdadAvanzada, y Muerte
(Disability, Old age, Severance, and Death Insurance Coverages)
PROCESAR          Pension System Operator
RCV               Seguro de Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada y Vejez
(Old Age and Severance)
MPG               Minimum Pension Guarantee
NAFrA             North American Free Trade Agreement
SAR'92            Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro
(Retirement Savings System of Individual Accounts, operating from May 1992 to January 1997)
SHCP              Secrelaria de Hacienday Credito Publico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SIEFORE           Sociedaes de Inversi6n Especializadas de Fondos Para el Retiro
(Specialized Pension Fund)
Vice President:                               Shahid Javed Burki
Country Managing Director:                    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Management Director:                   Augusto De la Torre
Task Manager:                                 Gloria Grandolini



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page number
Preface ............ i
Evaluation summary .............. iii
Part One        Contractual Savings Development Program Implementation Assessment
I.              Background .................................................................1I
II.             Program Objectives.             ................................................................. 2
Ill.            Achievement of Program Objectives ........................... ....................................... 3
IV.             Major Factors Affecting the Program  ........................... ......................................  13
V.              Program Sustainability .................................................................  14
VI.             Bank Performance .................................................................  15
VII.            Borrower Performance .................................................................  17
Vill.           Assessment of Outcome .................................................................  18
IX.             Future Operations .....................                                               18
X.              Key Lessons Learned .....................   19
Part Two        Statistical Annex of ICR Tables .....................  21
Appendixes
A. Matrix of Compliance with Policy Actions
B. ICR Mission's aide-memoire
C. Borrower contribution to the ICR (SHCP)
D. Cofinancier contribution to the ICR (IDB)
E. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



1.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan No. 4123-ME)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Contractual Savings
Development Program (CSDP) in Mexico, for which Loan 4123-ME in the amount of
US$400 million was approved on December 17, 1996 and made effective on August 18,
1997.
This single tranche loan was fully disbursed upon effectiveness, August 18, 1997,
following a six-month extension of the original closing date of June 30, 1997 to
December 31, 1997. Cofinancing for the program in the amount of US$300 million was
provided by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
The ICR was authored by Mr. Truman Packard (Consultant), under the
supervision of Ms. Gloria Grandolini, Senior Financial Economist, and Mr. John Stein,
Principal Operations Officer (LCSFP) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
and was reviewed by Fernando Montes Negret, FPSI Sector Leader for Mexico. The
borrower and cofinanciers provided comments that have been incorporated to the ICR
and are reproduced (unedited) in appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, September 21 - 27, 1997. The report is based on material in the project file,
interviews with key participants, and findings from other Bank operations in Mexico's
financial sector.






iii.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan No. 4123-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   One of the main points of financial vulnerability of the Mexican economy as it
faced the 1994 peso crisis, was its shallow pool of domestic savings. The Zedillo
administration considered social security reform as a key element of its long- term
strategy to increase the volume of institutional savings and provide the basis through
which domestic savings could be channeled to productive investment with greater
efficiency. In addition to the expected actuarial and cash deficits that the existing public
pension system would soon incur, the administration was aware of the important
advantages of a confluence of economic and demographic trends that would make reform
of the private-sector pension system both viable and affordable.
2.    The Mexican Government's Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
was the first nation-wide pension reform program supported by a loan from the World
Bank. A single-tranche Sector Adjustment Loan, CSDP, for US$400 million was
cofinanced with a two-tranche loan of US$300 million, by the Inter-American
Development Bank.
Program Objectives
3.   Based on an agreed medium-term strategy with the Government, this loan was the
first in a planned series of operations to support the Mexican pension reform program and
complementary financial sector reforms. The program has five long-term aims: (i) to
increase the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security system and to
gradually expand effective coverage; (ii) to establish a financially viable pension system;
(iii) to limit the fiscal impact of the current pension system and ensure transparency of
the fiscal costs of transition; (iv) to enhance the development of capital markets. by
stimulating greater private financial intermediation, and to increase the array of financial
instruments and contracts available; and (v) to raise the level of institutional savings and
improve the allocative efficiency of domestic savings.
4.    CSDP's specific objectives were to support the: (a) introduction of the legal and
regulatory framework needed to establish the new pension system and to regulate and
supervise private pension fund administrators; (b) design and issuance of an investment



iv.
management regime; (c) assessment of the fiscal costs of the transition; (d) initiation of
improvements in the performance of INFONAVIT; (e) individualization of accounts and
strengthening the capacity of IMSS to manage the new pension system; and (f)
encouragement of public confidence in the new system through education and promotion.
Additionally, because the success of pension reform lies in the sustained, overall
development of the larger financial sector, the program included complementary financial
sector reforms toward: the continued restructuring of commercial banks; the
modernization of regulatory and supervisory structures for mutual funds and voluntary
pension plans; and the deepening of the insurance market for the provision of life and
disability coverage and annuities. Complementary reform of the financial sector carried
out in the first phase of the program, built on work already begun with the support of the
FTAL, a supplementary FTAL, and FSRL.
Implementation Experience
5.    In December 1995 the Mexican Congress approved legislation modifying the
public pay-as-you-go, defined-benefits scheme to establish a privately managed,
mandatory, defined-contribution scheme for private-sector workers affiliated to IMSS. A
second legislative package on the implementation of the reform, enacted in May 1996,
sets out the structure and powers of CONSAR, the new pension system's regulator, and
provides guiding principles for the establishment, operation and supervision of pension
fund administrators (AFOREs) and specialized mutual funds for pensions (SIEFOREs).
Under the 1997 reform, the public system was separated into Old-Age and Severance
insurance, and Disability and Life Insurance. The new system came into effect on July
1, 1997.
6.     The advent of the AFORE system has opened a new financial channel for private
intermediation in the Mexican capital markets. Since January 1997, the regulatory
authority CONSAR, began to accept applications and to authorize the establishment of
the private AFOREs. Presently 17 AFOREs receive contributions under the new system,
representing a robust private-sector response to the reform. At the close of 1997, pension
assets under management totaled 6.2 billion pesos (equivalent to about US$775 million).
7.   Private sector workers began to affiliate with the fund managers in February 1997.
Although workers are obliged to participate in the new system, the new social security
legislation allowed workers to forego affiliation with an AFORE for the first four years of
the system's operation, in return for a real yield of 2% on their pension savings managed
by the Government in an account at the Central Bank. This alternative has not been
utilized to the extent expected since by December 1997, most privately-employed formal
sector workers (96%) formerly covered under the public PAYG system, had elected a
private fund manager to invest their pension savings. These results are seen favorably by
the authorities and the Bank as a strong indicator of workers' acceptance of the new
system.
8.   The relative youth of the majority of private sector workers in Mexico, where 65%
of contributors to the new system are between the ages of 15 and 30, is expected to give
most a sufficiently long period of contribution into the system to accumulate adequate



V.
retirement savinlgs, and minimize the Government's social security obligations. A model
developed by technical staff at the SHCP estimates that the sum of the fiscal costs of the
transition to the new system will be roughly 1% of Mexican GDP for the next 20 years.
9.    The authorities have taken significant strides to safeguard workers' retirement
savings. Guidelines governing the AFOREs' investment activity were published on June
30, 1997 in CONSAR Circular 15-1, and limit SIEFORE exposure to instruments issued
by rated commercial banks to 10% of the funds,' within an overall 35% limit on
investment in rated private securities. Further portfolio limits were negotiated, that
included a 10% cap on funds invested in the instruments of a single issuer, a 5% limit
(10% with previous authorization from CONSAR) on investment in instruments emitted
by an own-group or parent company, up to 15% in related mutual funds, and on holdings
of only 10% of any single issue. A critical separation between AFORE and SIEFORE
capital is strictly required, and no limit is set on the portion of SIEFORE capital that can
be invested in government bonds.
10.  The investment regime has forced a new standard on Mexican capital markets, and
especially on the mutual funds industry. The restriction requiring investment in rated
instruments introduced a new dynamic to the Mexican system in which no instrument
was credibly rated before.  Further innovations, such as limits on investment in
instruments issued by related companies, and limits on the portion of any single issue that
can be held, represent an important regulatory change in the Mexican financial system.
11.   Althougl IMSS retains the legal authority to enforce collection of contributions
under the reform, the institute has appointed a private operator, PROCESAR, to
orchestrate the flow of funds and information among the various actors in the new
pension system. Each of the 17 AFOREs and the system's receiving banks, is a private
shareholder in PROCESAR, dividing the costs of operating the system among them. The
private operator has thus far succeeded in reconciling 96.9% of worker contributions with
their individual accounts. To complement the efficiency of the centralized collection
system the authorities developed a diskette-based computer software program with which
employers are able to calculate and report their social security and INFONAVIT
payments accurately. All employers with more than four employees are required to use
the software that is expected to minimize errors, while providing the technological means
to accelerate the flow of contributions from employers to AFOREs.
12.       Observers and market participants have judged CONSAR's regulatory
performance to be highly effective. CONSAR supervises the new system through
remote, automated data analysis, as well as on-site inspections of the AFOREs and
operates with a total staff of roughly two hundred professionals. The regulator's
expanded technical capacity (supported by the Bank under the FTAL) has accelerated
These guidelines forbid SIEFORE investment in commercial banks that have been intervened in by
CNBV.



vi.
response time, and reduced the amount of human resources necessary for supervision,
thus contributing to the viability of the system.
13.     Mexico's special housing funds that provide subsidized mortgages to eligible
private and public sector workers, form part of the country's pension and social security
system. Under the 1997 reform, 5% of workers' wages will continue to go to the housing
fund for private sector workers. Efforts to improve the financial performance of
INFONAVIT, the public housing institute managing this fund that receives between 30
and 40 percent of workers' mandatory contributions, are central to minimizing the future
fiscal cost of the reform and yielding an overall adequate real return to pensioners. Each
worker's contribution to his/her housing sub-account will be clearly shown on their pay
statement. Additionally, each will receive an annual statement disclosing the balance in
their sub-account managed by the AFOREs and the institute, and the rates of return
earned on these funds. I is expected that these measures will enable contributors to
monitor INFONAVIT, and in the long run, increase public pressure on the institute to
improve its financial performance.2
Performance
14.  Borrower performance in the identification, preparation and implementation of the
first phase of the CSDP, was highly satisfactory. Under the leadership of the SHCP, an
exceptionally qualified core reform team was created, that maintained a clearly
coordinated, inter-institutional reform program. All of the necessary legal and technical
preparations for the debut of the new pension system were carried out with a minimum of
delay. The Mexican authorities should be commended on the degree of professional
capacity that they brought to the achievement of the first-phase objectives of the program,
and for their commitment to the reform of their social security system, even when faced
by the challenges of a difficult political and economic climate.
15.   Bank performance in the implementation of the first phase was also highly
satisfactory. The Bank responded in a timely fashion to the Government's request for
financial and technical support for the reform of its pension system. The Bank was also
effective in raising the awareness of policy makers regarding the importance of reforming
social security, and further reform of the financial sector. Staff correctly advised the
Government of its opportunity to implement a feasible and affordable reform.
Program Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
16.  The sustainability of the first phase of reforms supported by CSDP, is subject to a
number of risks but appears likely. The sustainability of the new pension system can
only be judged over the long run, in approximately twenty years, when the first of the
2Further reforms of INFONAVIT's governance and minimum-wage linked mortgage instruments would
require changing its law.



vii.
transition generation workers opt for their accumulated retirement assets, rather than the
IMSS package of benefits under the lifetime switch, or the minimum pension guarantee.
However, there are other measures of how sustainable the reform will be, principally, in
two areas: (i) political intervention in the design of the pension system, and (ii) much
higher than estirnated fiscal costs. A newly empowered political opposition has publicly
registered concerns about the privatized pension system, and could modify critical
aspects of its design through future legislation. However, it is important to note that the
pre-electoral climate that so politicized the Government's reform, seems to have had little
impact on worker affiliation. A further risk is posed by the considerable weight of
INFONAVIT's iFuture financial performance on the outcome of the reform. Should the
program of measures to restructure INFONAVIT fail, the Government's future pension
liability could be significantly higher than currently expected. Despite the risks faced by
the new system, the high rate of affiliation, the substantial investment made by the
AFOREs, and an effective and well regarded regulator, all bode well for the sustainability
of the reform.
17.  Overall, the outcome of the program's first phase is considered highly satisfactory.
Although it is too early to make a conclusive judgment on the operation of the Mexican
system, or to cornpare its performance with that of other reformed systems in the region,
the achievement of the objectives of the first phase of the CSDP was both substantial and
timely.
Lessons Learned
18.  The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the
first phase of the CSDP are:
(i) The Importance of Borrower Ownership. As in any adjustment program, Borrower
ownership of conditionality under the loan is critical. Because of the Government's
strong commitment to reform of the pension system, the design, negotiation, and
implementation of the program was carefully carried out in a collaborative environment.
Strong technical and political leadership on the part of the Mexican authorities,
complemented by a well qualified technical team, provided a good context for taking full
advantage of the Bank's advice and facilitated the dissemination of best practice. The
proactive nature of Borrower participation in the program contributed to the credibility
and the sustainability of the reform. Furthermore, the Government's clarity of purpose in
reforming its social security system, facilitated the coordination of macroeconomic policy
of strict fiscal discipline, with microeconomic objectives of providing an enabling
environment for increased institutional savings.
(ii) Need for Sensitivity to Political Economy of Reform. The political economy
surrounding the formulation of labor policy has consistently constrained the reform
agenda of even the most resolute of governments. Social security reform is particularly
treacherous, and especially so in the midst of an election year, and a deep, although short-
lived economic crisis. Political factors and the legislative needs of the client need to be
understood at entry, and should be included in the Bank's dialogue with the client. In the



viii.
case of the Mexican reform, the Bank's willingness to lower its profile at the request of
the authorities avoided the impact of domestic perceptions of outside interference in the
reform process.
(iii) Selection of an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly
ambitions and politically sensitive policy agenda, the implementation team chose to
negotiate a medium-term reform strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of
single-tranche adjustment operations (STOs) - a lending vehicle design by the Bank
specifically to protect the integrity of lengthy adjustment operations from significant
political shifts in borrowing countries. The Bank's choice of the STO over the traditional
multiple-tranche option provided the Bank with greater agility in the disbursement of the
loan, and enhanced efficiency and leverage in the formulation of conditionality under the
proposed second loan. So far the decision to agree on a medium term reform strategy
supported by well focused STO's appears to be an innovative and tactically appropriate
response, suggesting that new Bank products can make the institution a more effective
partner in the development process.
(iv) Close Cooperation with Cofinanciers. Coordination with the IDB was continuous
and fruitful for both institutions and the client. However, in joint adjustment programs it
is essential to maintain highly compatible if not identical conditionality between the
cofinanciers. Conflicting conditionality can send mixed signals to the Borrower. To the
extent possible, it is recommended to avoid setting different conditions which, in this
particular case, had the IDB loan approved before an agreement on the World Bank
conditions had been achieved.
(v) Consistency in Objectives and Coordination Between Bank Operations. In the
course of preparing and implementing complex sector operations, it is essential to
orchestrate the objectives of related Bank projects in order to ensure consistency and the
achievement of desirable outcomes. In implementing the first phase of the Contractual
Savings Development Program, and the complex financial sector adjustments required
under CSDP, both the Mexican authorities and staff at the Bank relied on extensive work
carried out under the preceding FSRL and FTAL. Additionally, preparatory work for a
proposed CSDP II related to reform of INFONAVIT, has been carefully coordinated with
the Bank team preparing a FOVI loan.



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)  Implementation Completion Report: Page I
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. BACKGROUND
1.   In response to the financial crisis that erupted in December 1994, the Government of
Mexico embarked on an ambitious program of fiscal and monetary reformn. As a result of this
effort, Mexico has achieved substantial progress in its adjustment objectives. The country has
rebuilt its depleted reserves, improved its external debt profile, and regained access to
international capital markets. The World Bank has actively supported the Government's
adjustment program, and the recovery of the Mexican financial sector with a Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL), a Supplemental Technical Assistance Loan, and a Financial
Sector Restructuring Loan (FSRL I).
2.    One of the main points of financial vulnerability of the Mexican economy as it faced the
1994 peso crisis, was its shallow pool of domestic savings. In repeated policy statements the
authorities have madle clear that foreign savings should be only a compliment to domestic
savings. The Zedillo administration considered social security reform as a key element of its long
term strategy to increase the volume of institutional savings and provide the institutional basis
through which domestic savings could be channeled to productive investment with greater
efficiency. In addition to the expected actuarial and cash deficits that the existing public pension
system would soon incur, the administration was aware of the important advantages of a
confluence of economic and demographic trends that would make reform of the private-sector
pension system both viable and affordable
3.    Mexico had conducted an earlier experiment with a multi-pillar pension system in May
1992, that included a second pillar of individual retirement accounts. Although this first attempt
at a defined-contribution system suffered from severe design problems, it provided a valuable
introduction for Mexican authorities to the difficult task of pension reform. Eager to apply
lessons learned and to build on its earlier experience, further reform of the social security system
was high on the Government's policy agenda.
4.    In December 1995 the Mexican Congress approved legislation (the new Social Security
Law - Ley de Seguro Social) modifying the public pay-as-you-go, defined-benefits scheme to
establish a privately managed, mandatory, defined-contribution scheme for private-sector
workers affiliated to :IMSS. A second legislative package on the implementation of the reform
(the Pension Systems Law - Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro), enacted in May 1996,
sets out the structure and powers of CONSAR, the market regulator, and provides guiding
principles for the establishment, operation and supervision of pension fund administrators
(AFOREs) and specialized mutual funds for pensions (SIEFOREs). Under the 1997 reform, the
public IVCM system was separated into Old-Age and Severance insurance (RCV - Seguro de
Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Vejez), and Disability and Life Insurance (IV - Seguro de
Invalidezy Vida). The reform became effective on July 1, 1997. The Mexican Government's
Contractual Savings Development Program was the first nation-wide pension reform program



Page 2: Implementation Completion Report          Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
supported by a loan from the World Bank. The lending instrument was also novel, as the Region
chose to support the reform through a series of single-tranche adjustment operations (STOs). '
CSDP, for US$400 million was cofinanced with a two-tranche Sector Adjustment Loan of
US$300 million, by the Inter-American Development Bank.
II. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
6.    The CSDP loan supported a number of major policy initiatives which were grouped
together under the broad title, "Contractual Savings Development Program". The centerpiece of
the reform was the restructuring of the existing pension system for formal, private sector
workers, from a pay-as-you-go, defined-benefit system, to one of defined contributions under
private management. CSDP focused on the initial phase of the reform program, which separated
the mandatory pension contributions of private sector workers from the health insurance system,
and established the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for the new old age security
system of individually capitalized accounts.
7.    Based on an agreed medium-term strategy, and as embodied in the CAS (October 15,
1996), this loan was to be the first in a planned series of operations to support the Mexican
pension reform program and complementary financial sector reforms. The program has five
long-term aims: (i) to increase the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security
system and to gradually expand effective coverage; (ii) to establish a financially viable pension
system; (iii) to limit the fiscal impact of the current pension system and ensure transparency of
the fiscal costs of transition; (iv) to enhance the development of capital markets by stimulating
greater private financial intermediation, and to increase the array of financial instruments and
contracts available; and (v) to raise the level of institutional savings and improve the allocative
efficiency of domestic savings.
8.    CSDP's specific objectives were to support the: (a) introduction of the legal and
regulatory framework needed to establish the new pension system and to regulate and supervise
private pension fund administrators; (b) design and issuance of an investment management
regime; (c) assessment of the fiscal costs of the transition; (d) initiation of improvements in the
performance of INFONAVIT; (e) individualization of accounts and strengthening the capacity of
IMSS to manage the new pension system; and (f) encouragement of public confidence in the new
system through education and promotion. Additionally, because the success of pension reform
lies in the sustained, overall development of the larger financial sector, the program included
complementary financial sector reforms toward: the continued restructuring of commercial
banks; the modernization of regulatory and supervisory structures for mutual funds and voluntary
pension plans; and the deepening of the insurance market for the provision of life and disability
coverage and annuities. Complementary reform of the financial sector carried out in the first
phase of the program, built on work already begun with the support of the FTAL, a
supplementary FTAL, and FSRL I.
l Operational rationale for the choice of single-tranche adjustment lending is given in the World Bank
Memorandum, "Introducing Single Tranche Operations in LAC", by Aysegul Akin-Karaspan (LATSO),
February 1996



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 3
9.    The loan's objectives were clear and appropriately designed for a single tranche
operation. They were consistent with the Government's policy agenda, as articulated in the
National Development Plan for 1995-2000, and the National Plan to Finance Development 1997-
2000. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico issued on October 15, 1996
sets the establishment of a financial environment that will encourage greater domestic savings as
a priority in the institution's lending program.
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
10.   Unique to the single-tranche adjustment lending operation, most of the objectives of the
first phase of the program were met prior to the loan's presentation to the Board. Details on the
establishment of the legal and regulatory framework of the new system, the assessment of the
fiscal costs of the reform, the measures taken to improve the performance of INFONAVIT, the
individualization of accounts and strengthening of IMSS, and the encouragement of public
confidence in the new system, can be found in the Memorandum of the President, No. P7018-
ME. An in-depth analysis of the design of the new AFORE system, as well as the challenges to
its sustainability are also contained in the same report. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Borrower was required to adopt key regulatory guidelines for the market activities of the new
fund managers as well as the supervision of the system, and to issue an investment management
regime containing general principles acceptable to the Bank. Evidence of the Borrower's
compliance with all of the loan conditions is provided in Appendix A: Matrix of Compliance
with Policy Actions of this report.
11.   Since CSDP is part of an incremental process of reform, it is too early to assess fully the
feasibility of the reform in meeting its long-term aims, or to judge their sustainability.
Nevertheless, an analysis of current indicators as to whether these long-term goals are likely to
be achieved is vital to the continuing dialogue with the Borrower, and as a guide to future Bank
operations for further reform of social security in Mexico. The key results of the reform during
its first six months of operation are presented below.
(i) Affiliation to the New System and Impact on Capital Markets
12.   The advent of the AFORE system has opened a new financial channel for private
intermediation in the Mexican capital markets. Since January 1997, the regulatory authority
CONSAR, began to accept applications and to authorize the establishment of the private
AFOREs. The privatized system of mandatory individual contributions has been in full operation
since September 1, 1997. Presently 17 AFOREs receive contributions under the new system,
representing a robust private-sector response to the reform.



Page 4: Implementation Completion Report                         Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
gYYEL~~~~~ t, _,~~t<
ATLANTICO              Valores Finamex, S.A. de C.V. (50% ME), GBM Grupo Bursatil, S.A. de C.V. (50% ME)
BANAMEX                Banco Nacional de Mexico, S.A. (99.99%, ME), Acciones y Valores de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
(00.01%, ME)
BANCOMER               Bancomer, S.A., Institucion de Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero Bancomer (51%, ME), Aetna
International Cia, S. en N.C. de C.V. (33%, US), Santa Maria International, S.A. (16%/, CH)
BANCRECER              Bancrecer, S.A., Instituci6n de Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero Bancrecer (51%, ME), Dresdner
Pension Fund Holdings (44%, US), Allianz Mexico, S.A. (5%, ME)
BANORTE                Banco Mercantil del Norte, Instituci6n de Banca MAltiple, Grupo Financiero Banorte (51%, ME),
Belgica Insurance Holdings (24.5%, BE), Maatschappij Graafschap Holland N.V. (24.5%, HO)
BITAL                  Banco Intemacional, S.A. Instituci6n de Banca Muiltiple, Grupo Financiero Bital (51%, ME), ING
America Insurance Holding (49%, US)
CAPITALIZA             GE Capital de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (00.01%, ME), GE Capital Assurance Co. (99.99%/o, US)
CONFIA-PRINCIPAL   Confia, S.A. Instituci6n de Banca M6ltiple, Abaco Grupo Financiero (51%, ME), Principal
International Inc. (490/o, US)
GARANTE                Banca Serfin, S.A., Instituci6n de Banca M6ltiple (51%, ME), Citibank, S.A., Grupo Financiero
Citibank (40%, US), Habitat Desarollo Intemacional (9%, CH)
GENESIS                Seguros Genesis, S.A. (00.01%, ME), Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. (99.990/o, US)
INBURSA                Banco Inbursa, S.A. Instituci6n de Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero Inbursa (99.99%, ME),
Compania de Servicios Inbursa, S.A. (00.01%, ME)
PREVINTER              Boston AIG Company, LLC (90%, US), Bank of Nova Scotia (10%, CA)
PROFUTURO GNP          Grupo Nacional Provincial Pensiones, S.A. de C.V. (51%, ME), Banco Bilbao Vizcaya - Mexico, S.A.
(25%, ME), Provida Intemacional, S.A. (24%, CH)
SANTANDER              Banco Santander Mexicano, S.A. Instituci6n de Banca Multiple (75%, ME), Santander Investments
S.A. (25%, SP)
TEPEYAC                Seguros Tepeyac, S.A. (66.01%, ME), MAPFRE International Vida, S.A. (33.9%, SP)
XXI                    IMSS (50%/o, ME), IXE Banco, S.A., Grupo Financiero (50%, ME)
ZURICH                 Zurich Vida, Compania de Seguros, S.A. (80%, SW), Gabriel Monterrubio, (10%, ME), Private
Investors (10%, ME)
Source: CONSAR 1998
[a] partner listed first is either a Mexican company or the Mexican subsidiary of an international parent corporation
This partner is entitled to a 51% stake in the venture
ME: Mexico; US: United States; CH: Chile; SP: Spain, BE: Belgium, HO: Holland, CA: Canada, SW: Switzerland
13.    At the  close  of 1997, pension  assets under management totaled  6.2  billion  pesos
(equivalent to about US$775 million), and after a period of intense competition for affiliates
involving considerable expenditure on promotion AFOREs owned and operated by Mexico's two
largest banks, Bancomer and Banamex, hold market shares of 19.2% and 17.0% of total assets
respectively. The managers with the lowest share of assets under management are Genesis and
Tepeyac, each with 1.2% of the market. By law in the first four years of the system's operation,
no AFORE will be allowed to affiliate more than 17% of the market. The two largest managers,
Bancomer and Banamex have affiliated 16%  and 11%  of former IMSS workers respectively,



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)              Implementation Completion Report: Page 5
while Genesis and Tepeyac account for 1% and 0.8% of potential affiliates. The authorities
established this limlit on market share to encourage competition, and will raise the ceiling to 20%
to accommodate consolidation in the long term. CONSAR expects that some consolidation of the
market will begin soon. CONSAR is formulating a process that safeguards workers' savings for
such an eventuality.
12...............------ -------- - -.-]
10 _
00 60_00
500
,A~~~~~~~~~AV
l                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Year 
l Y_0.0
5 ,wl l X
4I500. 0
lODOMr           :       
3I5  .00nll1allr  lw.  l....F.I  - 
3,OfDee  ecp .00de  
2,000



Page 6: Implementation Completion Report                  Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
14.      The investment guidelines that were agreed to and published on June 30, 1997 in
CONSAR Circular 15-1, limit SIEFORE exposure to instruments issued by rated commercial
banks to 10% of the funds,2 within an overall 35% limit on investment in rated private securities.
Further portfolio limits were negotiated, that included a 10% cap on funds invested in the
instruments of a single issuer, a 5% limit (10% with previous authorization from CONSAR) on
investment in instruments emitted by an own-group or parent company, up to 15% in related
mutual funds, and on holdings of only 10% of any single issue. A critical separation between
AFORE and SIEFORE capital is strictly required, and no limit is set on the portion of SIEFORE
capital that can be invested in government bonds.3
- PP¶R -LITS BYfTYP- Ibi                                    Jut
LIMITS PER    TR  MENT (as      re~     .ofP     cts,.              9- l
Government debt                                                                       100
Equity securities                                                                      0
Eligible bank debt (issued or guaranteed by a commercial bank)                         10
Total eligible private debt (corporate and commercial bank) and development bank       35
obligations
....S PE R .... .........
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer as a percentage    10
of SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer, as a percentage   10
of the issuer's securities
Investment in any single issue as a percentage of such issue                           10
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by issuers belonging to the same        15
financial, commercial or industrial group, as a percentage of SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by affiliates of the SIEFORE as a       5
percentage of SIEFORE assets
15.    Although the authorities intend to introduce new  regulations that would allow  each
AFORE to manage a farnily of funds, in the first year of operation, workers are offered only a
single SIEFORE per fund manager. Due to a shortage of investment instruments that meet the
criteria of the investment regime, all 17 SIEFOREs hold nearly identical portfolios, dominated
2 The Regime that was finally agreed upon does not diverge significantly from the general guidelines negotiated
with the Mexican authorities before the loan was presented to the Board. These general guidelines forbid
SIEFORE investment in commercial banks that have been intervened in by CNBV.
3 The regime has forced a new standard on Mexican capital markets, and especially on the mutual funds industry.
The restriction requiring investment in rated instruments introduced a new dynamic to the Mexican system in
which no instrument was credibly rated before. Further innovations, such as limits on investment in
instruments issued by related companies, and limits on the portion of any single issue that can be held,
represent an important regulatory change in the Mexican financial system.



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)              Implementation Completion Report: Page7
by investment in government bonds. This is expected to change over time, as new SIEFORE
funds are permitted and as the market responds to the demand for adequate investment
instruments.
(H  nraigSsanblt and Expanding Effective Coverage
16.    Private   sector
workers    began    to
affiliate with the fund
managers in February
workers are obliged to               000 I9
participate in the niew                                                                    7
system,  because   of 
initial  concern  about          0) 6000000I
possible difficulties in                                                                 .45
affiliation,  the   niew30-
social          security         7- 2000000                                                10
legislation     allowved                                                                  10
workers   to   forego                                                          ez   <
affiliation   with   an 
AFORE for the firs
four   years   of  theMot
system's operation, in                             M2nthly Total of Affiliates -o-- % IMSS Workers
return for a real yield
of 2% on their pension
savings  managed  by
the Government in an                 50
account at the Central             113.0.
Bank. This alternative              11.0.
has not been utilized to            1.
the   extent  expected              8.0
since   by   December               7
1997, most privately-               5.0
employed         formal30
sector workers (96%1/)              2.0
formerly covered under              0.0
the    public    PAYVG               qP     cP6P                      ez
system, had elected  a                                                         C
private  fund  managerAFR
to invest their pension
savings.



Page 8: Implementation Completion Report                    Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
17.     These results are seen favorably by the authorities and the Bank as a strong indicator of
workers' acceptance of and interest in the new system. A high rate of participation has presented
private fund managers with potential economies of scale in the provision of their services, and as
a result the cost of fund management is expected to fall. Furthermore, since the AFOREs are
permitted wide discretion in the setting of commissions each charges on workers' accounts,4 and
workers are permitted to choose a new manager once annually, competition for market share
should bring about a downward adjustment of current prices.
-          %~~~~~of Asiet  Nofte    ~otR
Atlantico          1.40                         0.00                       20.00            E
Banamex*           1.70                         0.00                        0.00            A
Bancomer           1.70                         0.00                        0.00            A
Bancrecer          0.00                         4.75           **           0.00            B
Banorte            1.00                         1.50                        0.00            D
Bital              1.68                         0.00                        0.00            A
Capitaliza         1.60                         0.00                       0.00             A
Confia             0.90                         1.00                       0.00             D
Garante            1.68                         0.00                       0.00             A
Genesis            1.65                         0.00                       0.00             A
Inbursa            0.00                         0.00                       33.00            C
Previnter          1.55                         0.00                       0.00             A
Profuturo          1.70                         0.50                       0.00             D
GNP
Santander          1.70                         1.00                       0.00             D
Tepeyac            1.17                         1.00                       0.00             D
Siglo XXI          1.50                         0.99                       0.00             D
Zurich             0.95                         1.25           **          0.00             D
Source: CONSAR Tabulations, 8 July 1997
* Initial rate is 0.2% of pay rising to 1.7% by March of 1998.
** Charge on assets to fall over time if participant remains in that AFORE.
*** Charge to fall over time if participant remains in that AFORE.
Memorandum: Type of Commission
A: On pay alone (7 of 17)                                 Av % A:                           1.67
B: On assets alone (I of 17)                              Av % B:                          4.75
C: On real returns alone (1 of 17)                        Av % C:                           33
D: Mixture of A&B (7 of 17)                               Av. D (pay%;asset %):            1.27         1.03
E: Mixture of A&C (I of 17)                               Av. E (pay %,ROR %)              1.40         20.00
4 Article 8 of the Pension Systems Law establishes that CONSAR shall issue the general rules that determine the
commission regime for AFOREs. Further, Circular 04-1, issued on October 10, 1998, sets forth this regime.
According to article 37 of the Pension Systems Law, the AFOREs need the previous authorization of
CONSAR to establish their commission structure.



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)    Implementation Completion Report: Page 9
(iii) Limiting the Fiscal Impact of Pension Provision
18.   One of the determining factors in the timing of CSDP, was the affordability of the reform.
The relative youth of the majority of private sector workers in Mexico, where 65% of
contributors to the new system are between the ages of 15 and 30, is expected to give most a
sufficiently long period of contribution into the system to accumulate adequate retirement
savings, and minimize the Government's social security obligations. A model developed by
technical staff at the SHCP estimates that the sum of the fiscal costs of the transition to the new
system will be roughly 1% of Mexican GDP for the next 20 years. The authorities consider these
results quite conservative, given the assumption that the AFOREs will earn an average real return
of 3.5%.
19.   Further measures have been taken to minimize any significant departures from this
estimate of the Government's future pension liabilities. A significant risk of such a departure is
presented by the life-time switch option, and the minimum pension guarantee (MPG).5
Considerable comment and criticism has been received by the designers of the new system in
Mexico, on these two features of the 1997 reform. In recognition of the acquired rights of
Mexican workers caught in the transition from the old IMSS plan to the new AFORE system, the
Mexican authorities included a lifetime switch option in the design of the reform. The option
allows transition workers, at the time of retirement, to switch back to the benefits defined under
the old PAYG system if these are higher, or should the accumulated assets in their AFORE
accounts not prove sufficient to secure a pension benefit above a minimum guaranteed by the
Government. New workers in the system are likewise guaranteed a minimum pension benefit
should their accumulated assets prove insufficient upon retirement.  In either case, the
Government would appropriate the balance in the worker's AFORE account, and would then be
liable for the difference between this sum and that necessary to secure its guaranteed minimum
pension.
20.   Critics have pointed out that the Mexican authorities have made themselves vulnerable to
a source of moral hazard - the fact that transition workers can always fall back on the old public
system if the return on their accumulated balances is not high enough, or if funds are lost due to
risky investment, means there is an incentive to gamble. This moral hazard on the part of
contributors may lead to less monitoring of fund managers, and more risky investment that can
hinder the development of the financial sector. Furthermore, the obligatory worker contribution
going to the AFOREs of 6.5%, is relatively meager when compared to that of other reformed
systems in the region, and should the AFOREs fail to secure an adequate return on these funds,
many workers may not accumulate assets above the minimum hurdle. The Government could
thus be hypothetically faced with a considerable pension liability down the road, should the
system fail to perform as expected.
5For a complete discussion of the life time switch and the minimum pension guarantee to both transition and new
workers, see the President's Report for CSDP, and Peer Review comments in the project file.



Page IO: Implementation Completion Report          AMexico: Contractual Savings Development Program ('CSDP)
21.   The Government's daily Social Quota6 partially recognizes its potential liability. It has
been suggested that the potential fiscal burden could be further reduced by funding this expected
liability separately and collectively rather than through the social quota, which subsidizes even
workers who would have in any event retired above the minimum pension. In addition, sources
of moral hazard opened by the lifetime switch, are mitigated by three factors: (i) the majority of
transition workers (65%) are under 32 years of age; (ii) workers will have their own individual
retirement accounts as opposed to a hypothetical government guarantee; and (iii) initially, the
investment regime will be quite restrictive, eliminating opportunities for high risk investment of
workers' savings.
22.   Mexico's special housing funds that provide subsidized mortgages to eligible private and
public sector workers, form part of the country's pension and social security system. These
funds have been financed by employers through a pay-roll tax. Under the 1997 reform, 5% of
workers' wages will continue to go to the housing fund for private sector workers. Efforts to
improve the financial performance of INFONAVIT, the public housing institute managing this
fund that receives between 30 and 40 percent of workers' mandatory contributions, are central to
minimizing the future fiscal cost of the reform and yielding an overall adequate real return to
pensioners. If the institute fails to make a real rate of return on its fund, at least as high as that
made by the AFOREs, a greater number of the transition generation could be compelled to fall
back on the benefits defined under the old PAYG system and the lifetime switch, while a large
portion of new workers might not accumulate the balances necessary to receive a pension above
the MPG. This could increase the Government's future pension liability far above current
projections, and thus defeat the purpose of the reform. Initial measures to improve transparency
and disclosure were initiated as a condition of the loan before Board presentation. Each worker's
contribution to his/her housing sub-account will be clearly shown on their pay statement.
Additionally, each will receive an annual statement disclosing the balance in their sub-account
managed by the institute, and the rate of return earned on these funds. The Mexican authorities
hope that these measures will enable contributors to monitor INFONAVIT, and in the long run,
increase public pressure on the institute to improve its financial performance. Further reform of
the institute is a central pillar in proposed future Bank operations, and is essential to the
sustainability of the new system.
(iv) Operational Viability of the Pension System:
23.   Although IMSS retains the legal authority to enforce collection of contributions under the
reform, the institute has appointed a private operator, PROCESAR, to orchestrate the flow of
funds and information among the various actors, both private and public, in the new pension
system. Each of the 17 AFOREs and the system's receiving banks, is a private shareholder in
PROCESAR, dividing the costs of operating the system among them. The private operator has
thus far succeeded in reconciling 96.9% of worker contributions with their individual accounts.
This is a significant achievement, since one of the key reasons for the failure of the first reform
attempt in 1992 was the existence of multiple accounts - 40 million accounts for 10 million
6Government contribution of Pesos $1 per day is indexed to the consumer price level (CPI) and estimated to be
between I and 5.5 percent of worker salary, depending on the workers' incomes. On average, the Social
Quota will be equivalent to 2.2 percent of wages.



Mexico: Contractual Savings L)evelopment Program (CSDP)                              Implementation Completion Report: Page I1
workers. PROCESAR' s account reconciliation rate is expected to improve as the system
matures.
24.      As a complement to  the  efficiency  of the  centralized  collection  system   overseen  by
PROCESAR, the authorities developed the Sistema Unico de Autodeterminaci6n or SUA (Single
System of Autodetermination). The SUA consists of a diskette-based computer software
program with which employers are able to calculate and report their social security and
INFONAVIT payments accurately. All employers with more than four employees were required
to use the SUA as of August 1997. Ironically, all those required to do so, except IMSS itself, are
using the electronic system (IMSS is expected to begin electronic reporting by March 1998).
The SUA is expectedi to minimize errors, while providing the technological means to accelerate
the flow of contribut:ions from employers to AFOREs.
Janiiary - May 1997              May -                 No.NfoNo.mb
AF nEFraltose Trotam ie   nrcinotaloFined IFraltse TrootaFion RedpInrationg tota FONSdR  toFine    CFonsen
Atlantico     0       __....2   o...0                    0              0     5    . 132,250:          0 _        0
Banamex       3    I 198,375'    5    I    3,5 1 1                 66,125     6        158,700         0 
Bacmer     13        _859,625    3          7-   9,5k 4         2,00        5-       132,250    __   0       __
cnrecer  4__          26426,450                        4        264,500     8        211,600__1@79,350   ___0
Banorte       4 42 64500   6                 158,700     3        198,375  -7          185,150         0         0
Bital         I    i    66,125     1      -    ~      -I           66,125'    6        18700,                 _  0
-- 26,4501    I.                             .         .58,700
Capitaliza    0      1     0       0       0             0         0   0                    0~            _   _ 
Confia   .    0              0     0                     -l            0!o    0              j         0         0
Genesis  3  198,375  -            oK _         >~ ~~~                   ~~~ ~~~ 158   - 700
Garante   i    4       264,500     3          79,3501              93         6
uenesis  J        198~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,125   7  185,1501   4  264,500   8  2116,6001    -     -----0
Inbursa               __6,12    4         I05,800    4    j264,500        6         158,700         0         0
Previnter     4         264,500j    2          52,900    3  -~198,375 -6               158,700         0
_  _~~~ 11_                          -   + 
Profuturo     0               0!    5    j 132,250       4        264,500    1 2   1  317,400 --       0 ic~396,75C
Santander     3         198,375 __ 5          132,250    9512               7           8,000
Tepeyac   -_166,125                 0              0     0    I         0 --5          132,250         0 
Siglo XXI     o-o                   1         26,450      L.            0     -     . 3 '5             O
Zurich       -0              0 --  3        - 79,350  0_ 00                   3-       79,3-0          0 
Total     4__         2,7111,125    46...   1,21,0       40      2,645,00     93      2,459,SO     79,350   396,750
Total First Period: 3,927,825 Mexican Pesos  I_ __   oa Second Period: 5,633,850 Mexican Pesos
[otal US$: 490,978                                  Total USS: 704,231
Source: CONSAR
[a] fine of 66,125.00 pesos
[bi fine of 26,450.00 pesos
25.   Most outside observers and market participants have judged CONSAR's regulatory
performnance to be highly professional and effective. CONSAR supervises the new system
through remote, automated data analysis, as well as on-site inspections of the AFOREs and



Page 12: Implementation Completion Report        Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
operates with a total staff of roughly two hundred professionals. A fully automated system feeds
data on affiliations and the status of retirement accounts to analysts at CONSAR on a daily basis.
The bulk of supervisory functions are computerized. This is the only system of daily monitoring
that exists in the country, and is supported by programs that perform cross-checks on data
received separately from both the AFOREs and from PROCESAR. Any activity outside the
regulatory framework is quickly identified. The offending AFORE is contacted immediately, and
if the infraction cannot be satisfactorily explained or resolved remotely, an inspection team is
dispatched to deal with the problem on site. To date all the infractions that are detected have
been dealt with in 24 hours. Table 4 above, presents details on common infractions and fines
levied. CONSAR's expanded technical capacity has accelerated response time, and reduced the
amount of human resources necessary for supervision, thus contributing to the viability of the
system.
(v) Public Information Management & Promotion of Reform
26.   CONSAR is responsible for the dissemination of information about the new AFORE
system to the public. In the months leading to the system's start of operations the regulator
undertook a series of public relations efforts to educate workers on the premise behind the
reform, the mechanics of the system, and the role of its principal actors. CONSAR designed
information campaigns, ran advertisements on buses and billboards, recorded television and
radio broadcasts, released statements to the press, and closely monitored the content of
advertisements made by the AFOREs to ensure their integrity.7 However, despite their efforts,
the authorities have been criticized for not communicating the fundamental changes to social
security brought about by the shift from the PAYG plan, to an individually-capitalized, defined-
contribution system to the majority of Mexican workers. CONSAR is aware of the need for a
wider public education effort, but is constrained by the high price of radio and television
broadcast, that up to now, it has received at no cost by using non-peak air time reserved for the
Government.
27.   CONSAR has tried to bypass this constraint by designing information materials such as
brochures and video presentations that it latter disperses to the larger employers in the country
(employing 50 workers or more) and to job centers, in order to familiarize workers with the
benefits of the new system. Three separate promotional campaigns have been designed from
analysis of data gathered in worker surveys. Furthermore, in an effort to remain accessible to
employers, recently affiliated workers, and those considering affiliation, CONSAR maintains a
phone-in service to respond to questions and complaints. In addition, participants in the AFORE
system are welcome to come to CONSAR's headquarters to make their complaints in person.
From January to December 1997 CONSAR attended to the needs of 7,000 workers who visited
the regulator's headquarters.
28.   The new AFORE system has only been in full operation for a few months. Any final
judgment on its design, or on the likelihood of the system contributing to the long-term
objectives of the Contractual Savings Development Program, would be premature. However,
7It should be noted that the bulk of fines levied on the AFOREs by the regulator in the months leading to full
operation of the new system, and shortly thereafter, were for mis-informing the public.



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)       Implementation Completion Report: Page 13
even at this early date, the structure of the new privatized system is firmly in place, and operating
smoothly. Both the Mexican authorities, and the Bank's implementation team have expressed
confidence that the Program is off to a strong start, and headed in an appropriate direction.
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
29.   With the implementation period of the program limited to actions taken prior to Board
presentation, and the issuance of the investment regime for SIEFORE funds as a condition of
effectiveness, major factors affecting the program should be approached from the design rather
than the implementation perspective. Success of the reform hinged to a great extent, on the
technical work of the Mexican authorities and their ability to obtain the commitment of Congress
to pass key reform legislation. The 1994 economic crisis, the continued fragility of the banking
system, and upcoming mid-term elections, were all factors in defining the final design of the
reform.
30.   Concerns about the state of commercial banks led to lengthy discussions, both in the
country and in the World Bank and IDB, on the eligibility of commercial bank financial
instruments for SIEFORE investment. Disagreement over the size of such investments and the
authorities' own domestic negotiations, led to a longer than expected delay in the issuance of the
investment regime. Finally, a 10% limit was agreed upon. Diversification of the investment
regime by permitting; investment in foreign securities was not approved by Congress, despite the
efforts of the administration's technical staff8
31.   Overall, these factors did not inherently change the basic design of the reform. However,
the system's debut to full operations was delayed to July 1, 1997, upon a vote in Congress in the
fall of 1996.9 The Mexican authorities felt that they needed to extend the preparatory phase of the
reform in order to ensure that the centralized system and the SUA mechanism managed by
PROCESAR, were firmly in place. The Government proved unwilling to sacrifice the smooth
operational performance of the system to a rigid, pre-set time table, deciding to delay full
operations instead of risking any loses of workers' savings. The loan's closing date was
extended from June 30, 1997 to December 31, 1997 to reflect this delay.
8 However, Circular 15-1 states that SIEFOREs may invest up to 10% of funds in instruments denominated in
foreign currency or indexed to the same, when these are issued or guaranteed by the Government.
9 The AFOREs began receiving contributions on July 1, 1997.



Page 14: Implementation Completion Report               Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
V. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
32.    The sustainability of the first phase of reforms and that of the privately managed pension
system supported by CSDP, is subject to a number of risks but appears likely. The sustainability
of the system can only be judged over the long run when the first of the transition generation
workers opt for their accumulated retirement assets, rather than the IMSS package of benefits
under the lifetime switch, in approximately twenty years. However, there are other measures of
how sustainable the reform will be, principally, in two areas: (i) further political intervention in
the design of the pension system, and (ii) much higher than estimated fiscal costs.
33.    The AFORE system  came into full operation on the heels of Mexico's first fully
democratic congressional elections in the summer of 1997. A newly empowered political
opposition has publicly registered concerns about the privatized pension system,'" and could
modify critical aspects of its design through future legislation. Such modifications to the new
system could come in the form of: (a) a ceiling on commissions and other similar distortions in
the fee structure, provoked by the potentially high costs to workers of a turbulent competition for
the transfer of accounts between fund managers, or by a slow downward adjustment of
administrative costs of the system; (b) restrictions on the development of additional SIEFOREs
away from funds dominated almost entirely by government securities; and (c) measures to
undercut the authority of the regulator, CONSAR, or restraints on its evolution toward full
budgetary independence; (d) loosening of the constraints on managers in the investment regime,
that could expose savings in SIEFOREs to higher risks; and (e) intervention on the part of labor
unions in the management structures of the AFOREs.
34.    Having said this, it is important to note that the pre-electoral climate that so politicized
the Government's reform, seems to have had little impact on worker affiliation. During the
campaign, opposition leaders called on workers not to affiliate with the AFOREs, but to exercise
their option to maintain their retirement accounts with the Central Bank, where they would not
be charged a commission," and would receive a guaranteed real rate of return. Despite these
calls for caution, the high initial rate of affiliation of private sector workers seems to indicate
broad public acceptance of the reform, and presents a relative deterrent to any radical changes in
the system.
10 The opposition in Congress has been very critical of the Zedillo administration's efforts at pension reform. In the
run up to midterm congressional elections in the summer of 1997, the affiliation of IMSS workers and the
introduction of the AFORE system became highly politicized. Each of the political parties in opposition
launched publicity campaigns against the Government's reform program. The Partido de la Revolucion
Democratica (PRD), led by the recently elected Mayor of Mexico City, was especially critical warning
workers not to risk their retirement savings by affiliating with an AFORE, but rather to let their savings
continue to be managed at the Central Bank. In addition, the party published a detailed attack on the structure
of the reform, compiling a number of studies and articles into a single volume, La Seguridad Social Mexicana
en la Ruta de la Privatizacion, Grupo Parlamentario del Partido de la Revolucion Democratica, Camara de
Diputados LVI Legistura, 1997.
' Presently, retirement accounts remaining at the Central Bank are charged a commission of 1. 15%.



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)   Implementation Completion Report: Page 15
35.   A further risk is posed by the considerable weight of INFONAVIT's future financial
performance on the outcome of the reform. Should the program of measures to restructure
INFONAVIT fail to reverse its poor mortgage lending practices, the Government's future
pension liability could be significantly higher than currently expected, since a greater number of
affiliates would choose the benefits under the old PAYG system.
36.   Despite the risks faced by the new system, the high rate of affiliation, the substantial
investment made by the AFOREs, and an effective and well regarded regulator, all bode well for
the sustainability of the reform. Furthermore, the Mexican authorities designed the new pension
system with features that will help to avoid some of the problems encountered by other reformed
systems in the regiorn. Specifically, (i) CONSAR is empowered to address any flaws or
inadequacies in the legal and regulatory framework as they arise, and need not rely on Congress
to effect significant changes to the operation of the system; (ii) under the Mexican system each
AFORE is permitted to set its own commission structure, is not required to show a minimum rate
of return, and can reward its affiliates for every year they choose to maintain its services, thus
providing all the correct incentives for market forces to operate unhindered; and (iii) even in its
first year the new system serves an affiliated population equivalent to the combined number of
formal-sector workers covered in Chile and Argentina, thus providing the emerging industry with
a sizable and growing demand for its services, as well as the potential for cost-reducing
economies of scale to develop.
37.    The second phase of the Government's reform program, to be supported by a proposed
second Bank loan, will address the mid-term challenges to the system's sustainability. In the
second phase, the Government will consolidate and fine-tune the reformed system by
maintaining a flexible and responsive regulatory framework, increasing the operating efficiency
of the centralized collection system, identifying cost-cutting opportunities in pension
administration, developing pension performance benchmarks, and by improving investment
policies and risk management. The sustainability of the new AFORE system will be further
safeguarded by the timely transfer - already in progress - of workers' savings under the SAR'92,
the improvement in the efficiency in the delivery of disability and survivors insurance, and the
strengthening of supervision and enforcement. The Government will be taking further measures
to minimize its future pension liability by updating its estimate of the fiscal cost of transition
with improved demographic data, deepening reforms to INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns
on the housing sub-account, advancing in technical diagnostic work on public and state pension
systems, advancing in the implementation of complementary financial market initiatives, and by
sustaining public confidence in the new system through education and disclosure.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
38.   Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period (by nature of the lending instrument) of the first phase of the Contractual
Savings Development Program, was highly satisfactory. The Bank responded in a timely fashion
to the Government's request for financial and technical support for a reform of its pension



Page 16: Implementation Completion Report         Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program fCSDP)
system. The Bank was also effective in raising the awareness of policy makers regarding the
importance of reforming social security, and further reform of the financial sector. Staff
correctly advised the Government of its opportunity to implement a feasible and affordable
reform.
39.   From  the fall of 1995, Bank staff conducted preparatory missions to catalyze an
exceptionally qualified and experienced inter-institutional team of Mexican counterparts that
would spear-head the diagnostic and technical work that preceded the reform. The
implementation team brought to bear international expertise and know-how from multiple
departments within the Bank and from external consultants with experience in reforming public
pension systems, to assist Mexican authorities in sensitizing Congress to the Government's
public pension liability. In addition, the Bank team facilitated linkages between developed and
developing country institutions and Mexican institutions, such as the support received from the
US Securities and Exchange Commission and from Chile's Pension Supperintendency to
CONSAR and the SHCP. Furthermore, the team took advantage of the comparative analysis that
went into the preparation of Averting the Old Age Crisis,'2 a Bank publication that stimulated
international awareness of the need for reform of PAYG pension systems, by inviting two of the
authors of the study into the Peer Review process to assess the design of the Mexican reform.
40.   The approach of the implementation team throughout the first phase of the program was
multi-disciplinary. In addition to expertise in pension reform, the team brought in professionals
from a variety of disciplines, including actuarial analysis, capital market development,
legal/regulatory reform, insurance and annuities markets, and macroeconomics. From this
wealth of technical expertise, the team was able to formulate a matrix of complementary
financial sector reforms to address the concerns of the Bank's senior management for the
viability of the new pension system. Furthermore, there was a great degree of consistency
among the different, but related support activities undertaken in parallel with the sector
adjustment loan.  Critical implementation activities, technical assistance, equipment and
publicity for CONSAR were financed under the FTAL, facilitating the execution of the necessary
reforms in the system's start-up phase.
41.   To give the Borrower a greater degree of flexibility in the implementation of a politically
sensitive reform in the months approaching critical mid-term elections, the Bank chose an
innovative lending instrument that would introduce a progressive structure to the program's
conditionality, and engage the Government in a continuing dialogue on contractual savings
reform. Although only time will tell to what degree the long-term aims of the reform will be
achieved, the choice of the single-tranche instrument within the framework of an agreed medium
term strategy with the government, appears to have been reasonable. The Bank's agreement to
work under a low profile showed further flexibility and concern for the client's needs, and was
optimally handled.
12 Averting the Old Age Crisis: Policies that Protect the Old and Promote Growth World Bank Policy Research
Report, 1994 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington D.C., Oxford
University Press



Mexico: Contracrual Savings Development Program (CSDP)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 17
42.   Coordination with the IDB was made effective and efficient through the maintenance of a
single core team that prepared the operation, and that orchestrated most decision making within
the two institutions. However, the differences between the Bank and the IDB in the conditions
each established for the formulation of the SIEFORE investment regime, made discussions with
the Mexican authorities for loan effectiveness problematic, and time consuming to resolve.
During appraisal and negotiation of the loan, the Bank team were always aware of the downside
risk to the success of the reform which could result from a potential downturn of the commercial
banking system. The team considered all possible options to limit such risk, and agreed with the
IDB and the Mexican authorities that the investment regime should explicitly incorporate criteria
to limit the exposure to such risk. The criteria to be included could be either qualitative or
quantitative.
43.   Although qualitative criteria for investment by AFOREs in bank securities would have
been a first-best option, the team decided against this option for four basic reasons: (i) such
quality criteria and monitoring indicators were still evolving; (ii) until FOBAPROA's universal
deposit insurance coverage is modified, all banks can theoretically be rated as "sovereign risk";
(iii) it would be very difficult, politically, for the CNBV and CONSAR to periodically issue to
the AFOREs lists of "good" and "bad" banks; (iv) it would be difficult to gain access to the data
necessary to confirm and supervise compliance with quality criteria particularly given the
prevailing disclosure standards; (v) there are a limited number of qualified rating agencies; and
(vi) there is a lack of private-sector, investment grade paper.
44.   For these reasons, the Bank team decided on a more cautious approach for the first phase
of the program, proposing a quantitative limit on SIEFORE investment. After protracted
negotiations, this limit was set at 10% of fund assets. The IDB chose to require qualitative
criteria in the investment regime as a condition for effectiveness.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
45.   Considerable praise for the performance of the authorities in Mexico was given in
interviews with World Bank staff associated with the loan. Borrower performance in the
identification, preparation and implementation of the first phase of the program, was highly
satisfactory. Under the leadership of the SHCP, an exceptionally qualified, dedicated, and multi-
disciplinary core reform team was created, that maintained a clearly coordinated, inter-
institutional reform program. All of the necessary legal and technical preparations for the debut
of the new pension system were carried out with a minimum of delay. The Mexican authorities
should be commended on the degree of professional capacity that they brought to the
achievement of the first-phase objectives of the program, and for their commitment to the reform
of their social security system even when faced by the challenges of a difficult political and
economic climate.



Page 18: Implementation Completion Report         Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
46.   Sensitive to the political economy surrounding the reform, the Government was eager to
minimize the direct involvement of the Bank, and to take on the bulk of responsibility for the
preparatory work. Officials of the SHCP developed a model that provided robust estimates of
the fiscal costs of the transition from the PAYG to the fully-funded system, under variable
macroeconomic and demographic assumptions. They conducted an exhaustive review of social
security reform efforts in both developed and developing countries in order to arrive at the best
possible design for the new pension system in Mexico. Seminars and workshops were
conducted, to disseminate technical information among policy makers and shapers of public
opinion on the urgency of the reform, and the long-term financial benefits that would arise from
the transition. The authorities arranged study tours for members of Congress to visit other
countries in the region that had successfully privatized their pension systems, and showed
independent initiative in taking full advantage of the advice of international pension-reform
experts initially introduced by the Bank's implementation team.
47.   Staff at CONSAR have put into place the necessary regulatory infrastructure upon which
the new system has rapidly grown. Once the SHCP granted authorization of foreign ownership
of AFOREs, CONSAR issued a series of regulations relating to the eligibility requirements for
the fund managers, their commission fee structure, capitalization requirement, marketing
activities, reporting requirements, and fund transfers.'3 The authority's various accomplishments
in the areas of monitoring and inspection of AFORE activity, publicity and promoting worker
awareness of the new system, have contributed to the transparent and efficient management of
workers' pension savings.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
48.   As detailed in the paragraphs above, the overall project outcome is considered highly
satisfactory. Although it is too early to make a conclusive judgment on the operation of the
Mexican system, or to compare its performance with that of other reformed systems in the
region, the achievement of the objectives of the first phase of the Contractual Savings
Development Program was both substantial and timely.
IX. FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.   As presented in the CAS, a proposed second loan (CSDP II) is expected to be presented
to the Bank's Board during the fourth quarter of 1998. This second loan would assist in the
further development of the new system for private sector workers, as well as support preparatory
actions to expand the reform of social security to include additional sectors of the Mexican
3 Hard copy of each regulation issued by CONSAR is kept in the Project File, or can be accessed on the world wide
web at www.natlaw.com/I under Mexican labor regulation. For a detailed assessment of the regulatory
framework see Memorandum of the President.



Mexico: Contractual Savings )evelopment Program (CSDP)   Implementation Completion Report: Page 19
economy. The loan will seek to: (a) consolidate the reformed pension system through the
strengthening of its principal institutions, regulatory framework and enforcement; (b) advance
technical diagnostic work on the public sector workers' pension system; (c) clearly establish the
role of INFONAVIT in the provision of social security, the sustainability of its lending
instruments, the fiscal cost of past and future operations, and the need to deepen its reform; and
(d) advance financial sector reforms that will enable further development of the insurance and
mutual funds industries.
50.   In the course of completion of the first phase of reform under CSDP, and from the
findings of diagnostic studies funded by a PHRD grant to prepare for the second phase, it became
clear to the Government and the Bank that CSDP II would have to address areas that the
administration previously was not able to consider, particularly in advancing the reform of
INFONAVIT. The specific conditionality of the second single-tranche adjustment loan will arise
directly from the needs identified by the Government and the Bank in the compliance with the
conditions of the first, essentially linking implementation of one phase of the program to the
design of the next.  A third sector-adjustment operation, CSDP III, is currently planned that
would continue to support the Government's contractual savings reform efforts.
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
51.   The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
phase of the CSDP are:
(i) The Importance of Borrower Ownership. As in any adjustment program, Borrower
ownership of conditiionality under the loan is critical. Because of the Government's strong
commitment to reform of the pension system, the design, negotiation, and implementation of the
program was carefully carried out in a collaborative environment. Strong technical and political
leadership on the part of the Mexican authorities, complemented by a well qualified technical
team, provided a good context for taking full advantage of the Bank's advice and facilitated the
dissemination of best practice. The proactive nature of Borrower participation in the program
contributed to the credibility and the sustainability of the reform.  Furthermore, the
Government's clarity of purpose in reforming its social security system, facilitated the
coordination of macroeconomic policy of strict fiscal discipline, with microeconomic objectives
of providing an enabling environment for increased institutional savings.
(ii) Need for Sensitivity to Political Economy of Reform. The political economy surrounding
the formulation of labor policy has consistently constrained the reform agenda of even the most
resolute of governments. Social security reform is particularly treacherous, and especially so in
the midst of an election year, and a deep, although short-lived economic crisis. Political factors
and the legislative needs of the client need to be understood at entry, and should be included in
the Bank's dialogue vvith the client. In the case of the Mexican reform, the Bank's willingness to
lower its profile at the request of the authorities avoided the impact of domestic perceptions of
outside interference in the reform process.



Page 20: Implementation Completion Report        Mexico: Contraclual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
(iii) Selection of an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly ambitions and
politically sensitive policy agenda, the implementation team chose to negotiate a medium-term
reform strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche adjustment
operations (STOs) - a lending vehicle design by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of
lengthy adjustment operations from significant political shifts in borrowing countries. The
Bank's choice of the STO over the traditional multiple-tranche option provided the Bank with
greater agility in the disbursement of the loan, and enhanced efficiency and leverage in the
formulation of conditionality under the proposed second loan. So far the decision to agree on a
medium term reform strategy supported by well focused STO's appears to be an innovative and
tactically appropriate response, suggesting that new Bank products can make the institution a
more effective partner in the development process.
(iv) Close Cooperation with Cofinanciers. Coordination with the IDB was continuous and
fruitful for both institutions and the client. However, in joint adjustment programs it is essential
to maintain highly compatible if not identical conditionality between the cofinanciers.
Conflicting conditionality can send mixed signals to the Borrower. To the extent possible, it is
recommended to avoid setting different conditions which, in this particular case, had the IDB
loan approved before an agreement on the World Bank conditions had been achieved.
(v) Consistency in Objectives and Coordination Between Bank Operations. In the course of
preparing and implementing complex sector operations, it is essential to orchestrate the
objectives of related Bank projects in order to ensure consistency and the achievement of
desirable outcomes. In implementing the first phase of the Contractual Savings Development
Program, and the complex financial sector adjustments required under CSDP, both the Mexican
authorities and staff at the Bank relied on extensive work carried out under the preceding FSRL
and FTAL. Additionally, preparatory work for a proposed CSDP II related to reform of
INFONAVIT, has been carefully coordinated with the Bank team preparing a FOVI loan.



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)            Implementation Completion Report: Page 21
Part Two: Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5:   Studies Included in Project
Table 6:   Project Financing
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions



Page 22: Implementation Completion Report                    Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
- -                                                           <~~~~~t -
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                       El                E                 El
Sector Policies                                      El                E                 El
Financial Objectives                 E3                                E ao
Institutional Development            El                                El                 El
Physical Objectives                  El               E                El
Poverty Reduction                    E               E                 El
Gender Issues                        E                 l               E3
Other Social Objectives                               El               E                  El
Environmental Objectives             E                E                El
Public Sector Management              E3                                El                E
Private Sector Development                            El 0                                El
Other (specify)                      E                E                El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                       (1)                        (1)       I
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory           Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                        (1)      I
Identification                                                 El                         El
Preparation Assistance                                         El                         E
Appraisal                                                      El                         El
Supervision                                                    El                         El



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)                 Implementation Completion Report: Page 23
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             Dsati                        Ssfacto         Deficient
(if)            (if)            (if)I
Preparation                                                    I 
Implementation                                 E=l
Covenant Compliance                                            jj              IZI
Operation (if applicable)                                      Fj               n
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(if)            (if)             (if)               (if)      l
Loan/credit title             Purpose               Year of Approval               Statusl
Preceding operations 
1. Financial Sector        Improve safety and                 1995             4.93 Undisbursed|
Technical Assistance    soundness of financial                              IP/DO SS
Loan & Supplemental    system
13.8 Undisbursed
2. Financial Loan Sector   Restore solvency and                1995            Closed
Restructuring Loan      soundness of banking
system
Following operations
1. Contractual Savings     Consolidate new pension        Proposed 1998        Proposed
Development Program     system, deepen reforms to
Loan ll                 INFONAVIT, and
advance in preparatory
actions to expand reform
to further sectors



Page 24: Implementation Completion Report                    Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program fCSDP)
Steps in Project Cycle   J   Date Planned            |          Date Actual
Identification                          September 1995                 October 1995
Preparation                             October 1995 - April 1996      November 1995 - April 1996
Appraisal                               May 1996                       May 1996
Negotiations                            October 1996                   October 1996
Letter of Development Policy            November 1996                  November 1996
Board Presentation                      December 1996                  December 1996
Signing                                 February 1997                  May 1997
Effectiveness                           February 1997 - October 1997   August 1997
First Tranche Release                   February 1997                  August 1997
Project Completion                      June 1997                      August 1997
Loan Closing                            June 1997                      December 1997
Appraisal Estimate                    400[a]
Actual                                400
Actual as % of Estimate                100
Date of Full Disbursement: 21 August 1997



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)               Implementation Completion Report: Page 25
Purpose as Defined|
Study                   at Appraisal                       Status       Impact of Studyl
1. Publicity Camnpaign for  Dissemination of infonmation on new  Completed      96% rate of      |
Social Security Reform   pension system                                      affiliation
2. Assessing the Fiscal  Estimation of fiscal costs and proposal to    Completed  Fiscal cost
Costs of Reform        ensure fiscal transparency.                            estimated at 1% of
GNP over next 20
years
3. Supervision           Development of methodology and          Completed      Increased
Methodology            supervision systems for valuation of                   supervisory
eligible financial instruments, as well as            capacity of
actuarial models to be used in matters                CONSAR
related to coverage
4. Comparative Analysis   Evaluate pension reform experiences from   Completed  Establishment of a
of Pension System      OECD and other LAC countries, and draft               financially viable
Supervision           recommendations on how to better create a               pension system
financially viable pension system
5. Legal Reform in        Evaluate the necessary changes in the legal  Completed  New draft
Annuities Market       framework for annuities, and preparation               regulations for
of draft regulations                                  annuities market
6. Legal Reform in       Development of legal framework for pre-   Completed    New draft
Insurance Market       paid medical insurance plans, and the                  regulations of
modernization of insurance regulation and             insurance market
supervision
7. Role of Financial and    Deepening of domestic financial markets    Completed  Assessment of
Insurance Markets in    and development of the insurance market              reform's impact on
the Success of the                                                            development of
Reform Effort                                                                insurance market
Source                    Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                     Actual (US$M)
IBRD                                 400                                     400
IDB                                  300                                     150[a]
Total                                700                                      550
[a] second tranche of a US$300 million loan not yet dispersed as of March 10, 1998



Page 26: Implementation Completion Report                         Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)
Agreement &       Covenant Present Fulfillment date              Description of               Comments
Section          type     status                                covenant
Section 5.01(a)       3         C        May 1997       Entrance into contractual arrangements with Effectiveness
the Guarantor satisfactory to the Bank  condition
Section 5.01(b)       10        C        January 1997-  Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy   Effectiveness
August 1997    framework consistent with objectives of the  condition
programn
Section 5.01(c)       9         C        June 1997      Exchange of views on progress achieved in  Effectiveness
carrying out the program               condition
Section 5.01(d)       12        C        June 1997      Issuance of Investment Management       Effectiveness
Regulation and Prudential Regulation   condition
satisfactory to the Bank
[a] Due to the single-tranche character of the loan instrument, most of the conditions under the loan were meet before Board
presentation. For evidence of compliance with policy conditions, see Matrix in Appendix A
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                  allocation
S. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                              regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                        13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
'So-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VV
|    Stage of                                        PandAta
Project Cycle                                      PandAta
Weeks            US$            Weeks             US$
Preparation to Appraisal                            13             63.8             4.6             37.4
Appraisal-Negotiation-Board Approval                11             96.7             16.3            95.2
Supervision                                         15             49.8            20.9             53.5
Completion                                          12             18.2             0.4             9.1
TOTAL                                             40             228.5            42.2            195.2



Mexico: Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP)                             Implementation Completion Report: Page 27
Performnance Rating
Number              Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of          Montht                        of     Days in   Staff Skills      tation       ment       Types of
Project Cycle      Year                      Persons    Field    Represented       Status     Objectives    Problems
Through          Identification jI_
Appraisal        September 17 - 21, 1995    10         4          a, b, f, g, h
September 26 - 29, 1995   4          4          a, b, g, h
October 16 - 27, 1995     4          11         a, b, f, g, h
Preparation
December 11 - 15,1995     2          4          f, i
December 18 - 22,1995     5          5          a, b, d, h
April 10 -13,1996         4          3          f, i
May 6 - 9,1996            3          3          a, b
Appraisal        AppraisaltPre-Negotiation
through Board    September 11 - 13, 1996    5          2          a, b, g, h
Approval
Supervision      Throughout Preparatiojbl   various    various    a, c              HS           HS         None
Completion       ICR/Completion Mission
September 22-27, 1997     6          5          a, b, c, d, e, f
Key of Specialized Staff Skills
a. Senior Financial Economist/Task Manager
b. Principal Operations Officer
c. Financial Sector Specialist
d. Housing Finance Specialist
e. Pension Fund Investment Specialist
f. Consultants: Pensions, Insurance & Annuities, Deposit Insurance, Actuarial Analysis, Financial Regulation
g. Legal Council
h. Financial Regulatory Expert
i. Country Economist
I The loan was first identified as a second Financial Sector Restructuring Loan, FSRL II
[b] Given the nature of STO adjustment lending, "supervision" was conducted by the Task Manager and the implementation team while
preparing the loan for Board presentation over the course of various missions






Appendix A: Page I of I
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
BaDUCTW                                        ACThNS TKENP1UOL T
Maintenance of a supportive                 Mamtenance of a sound macroeconomic framework
macroeconomic program.                      consistent with the policy objectives and program described
in the Letter of Sector Policy.
REFORMS TO TZ014) AGE INUN NUM SWSTE
Reform of the Old Age Insurance        On December 11, 1995, a new Social Security Law was enacted
System, Reform the public PAYG pillar   to move from a Government pay-as-you-go, defined benefits     * New Social Security Law issued on 1212195 (1)
and shift toward private management of   scheme to a mandatory, defined contributions scheme                                                                   l
pension funds.                          permitting private management. The new system will be
implemented beginning on July 1, 1997. The key legislative
changes are, inter alia:
*   dividing the amounts currently collected for IVCM2 into
two parts: (i) disability and life coverage (2.5% of base
salary) and (ii) retirement, severance, and old age (RCV)
amounting to 4.5%, which together with the contributions
to the SAR3 account of 2% of base salary and the "Social
Quota", will be transferred to individual accounts for each
worker (invested in shares of a SIEFORE). In addition, a
mandatory contribution of 5% of base salary will go into a
housing sub-account (INFONAVIT) and a tripartite quota
of 1.5% (employers, employees and the State) will be
allocated to a fund for health expenses of pensioners;                                                               >
*   inclusion of transitory provisions including protection of
rights of existing affiliates;
0   explicit separation of accounts for health versus pension                                                            H
'Numbers in bold correspond to an index of evidence presented by the borrower, and held in the project file                                                         >
2 IVCM refers to coverage for disability, old age, severance and life insurance provided by IMSS before the reform.
3 SAR refers to the Retirement Savings System.



Appendix A: Page 2 of )
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and_not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
|X0r~ ~   ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     A          A:i  A:9
services;
*  funding partially the minimum pension guarantee by a new
Government contribution (Social Quota);
*  redefining the minimum pension (change indexation to CPI
and eligibility from 500 to 1,250 work weeks);
*   imposition of new ceiling for retirement sub-account
contributions; and                                     *  Reform to Articles 7 and 8 of the "Ley General de
*  introducing private competition for provision of annuities  Instituciones y Sociedades Mutualistas de Seguros",
under life and disability coverage and for old age under new  published in the "Diario Oficial" on 05/23/96 (2)
.____________ .... system.                _-
,~~GLTR RET                    RT1IDMNI~IATIN  $ IVSTET OW PE NSIO FU[DS-                                                                - . .    p,        i 
(D
1. Regulation of Pension Fund         *  On May 24, 1996, the Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para    .  "Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro" (SAR  w
Administrators (AFOREs)                el Retiro was enacted and includes, inter alia, general     Law). 05/26/96. (3)                                  0 
principles related to:                                 *  "Reglamento de la Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para
Introduce the legal and regulatory            *  entry and exit procedures for AFOREs, including      el Retiro" (SAR Regulations), issued on 10/10/96. (4)
framework for AFOREs and SIEFOREs                 special authorization rules for financial groups  *   Disclosure requirements:
to make the new pension system                    with banks to establish an AFORE;               =>  Circular CONSAR 0 1/10/97 "Reglas Generales que
operational.                                  *  disclosure requirements;                            Establecen las Caracteristicas que Debe Reunir la
*  conflict of interest; and                          Informaci6n que las Administradoras de Fondos para el
o  AFOREs' and SIEFOREs' operating rules.              Retiro Deben Dirigir a los Trabajadores o al Publico en
General" (5)
*  Presentation of draft regulations satisfactory to the Bank:  *  Eligibility Requirements for AFORES and Operating
(a) by CONSAR relating to:                                     Rules for AFORES and SIEFORES:
*  eligibility requirements to establish AFOREs,   >  Circular CONSAR issued on IO 10/96 "Reglas
. commission and fee structure;                        Generales que Establecen el Procedimiento para
*  capitalization;                                     Obtener Autorizaci6n para la Constituci6n y Operaci6n
c  marketing; and                                      de AFORES y SIEFORES" (6)
*  Commission and fee structure:
t*  transfer of funds by account administrators and  >  Circular CONSAR issued on 10/10/96 "Reglas
investment management entities.                    Generales que Establecen el regimen de Comisiones al
(b) by SHCP relating to:                                   que DeberAn Sujetarse las AFORES" (7)
*  authorization of foreign ownership of AFOREs.   >  Circular CONSAR issued on 10/10/96 "Reglas



Appendix A: Page 3 of))
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
I    Generales sobre la Determinaci6n de Cuiotas de
*  Issuanc3 of abus C nMercado a que se Sujetaran las AFORES" (8)
Generales que establecen el regimen de Capitalizaci6n
al que se Sujetaran las AFORES y SIEFORES" (9)
*  Marketing:
=> Circular CONSAR issued on 10/10/96 "Reglas
Generales Sobre Publicidad y Promociones que
realicen las AFORES. (10)
' Circular CONSAR issued on 10/10/96 "Reglas              >
Generales a las que Deberan Sujetarse los Agentes
Promotores de las AFORES. (11)                        (D
*  "Reglamento para la Constituci6n de Administradoras
de Fondos para el Retiro Filiales", issued by SHCP and
signed 10/02/96. (12)
2. Investment Management Rules        *  On May 24, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorropara el  *   Investment management regime:
Retiro was enacted, including inter alia general principles    =' Circular CONSAR issued on 06/30/97 "Reglas
Establish a sound regulatory system for   related to the investment management regime.                Generales que Establecen el Regimen de inversi6n a
the investment of pension funds.                                                                      que DeberAn Sujetarse las SIEFORES cuya Cartera se
*  Presentation of satisfactory draft regulations prepared by  Integre Fundamentalmente por Valores que Preserven
CONSAR governing the investment management regime,         el Valor Adquisitivo de los Ahorros de los
including:                                                 Trabajadores" (13)
*  asset allocation rules;                         *  Disclosure requirements:
*  permissible investment strategies for families of  => Circular CONSAR issued on 04/16/97 "Reglas
funds, including inter alia:                       Generales que Establecen las Caracteristicas de los
1. prohibiting investments in banks intervened by      Estados de Cuenta que las Administradoras de Fondos
FOBAPROA; and                                      para el Retiro Deben Proporcionar a los Trabajadores
2.  establishing specific restrictions limiting        Registrados" (14)
investments in debt instruments of commercial
________________ __  banks to 10% of total SIEFORE portfolio.



Appendbx A: Page 4 of)1
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
Issuance of rules satisfactory to the Bank establishing
disclosure requirements, including: (i) formal provision, at
least once a year, of individual account statements to
contributors on the performance of their share in the
SIEFOREs and INFONAVIT subaccounts indicating the
balance of funds and rate of return; (ii) automatic provision
to contributors upon their request of the information
outlined on item (i); (iii) publication by CONSAR, at least
twice a year, of a bulletin stating the performance of
individual SIEFOREs including asset allocation, balance
sheet, and income statement and INFONAVIT rate of
return compared to the SIEFOREs.
I
*   Issuance of regulations governing the investment
management regime.
|                                                                                 .    , ,   .  .   (.   g   '   v   '   i   ' ' , 6 2 v : . ' . ' ' " ' ' " ' : '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   . .   .   .
*   "Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro" (SAR
Strengthen CONSAR to ensure effective   *   On May 24, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el          Law). 05/26/96. (3)
supervision of AFOREs and SIEFOREs.           Retiro was enacted, including inter alia:                   *   "Reglamento de la Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para
Q   establishment of improved supervision scheme for        el Retiro" (SAR Regulations), issued on 08129196. (4)
CONSAR;                                            *   Letter from Fernando Solis to the IDB dated 10/4/96
*  strengthening of its enforcement powers; and             (15), including attachments (a to i).
o   strengthening of CONSAR's governance through a  *   New operational scheme CONSAR-IMSS:
reexamination of the Board's composition.             Letter from Fernando Solis to the IDB dated 10/4/96,
including "Plan de Trabajo IMSS-CONSAR para la
*   Presentation of draft regulations by CONSAR relating to         Implementaci6n Operativa de la Reforma a la Ley del
surveillance and inspection procedures;                         Seguro Social. (16)
* Statistical bulletin:
*   Agree upon and initiate implementation of a time-bound       >  Working Program for PHRD Grant (10/10/96) and WB



Appendix A: Page 5 of 11
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
business prograTp to strengthen CONSAR's supervisory        pronosal (0AA96) (!7)
capacity, including:
¢  developing methodology and supervision systems
(operating systems and software) for valuation of
eligible financial instruments;
r  drafting of manuals describing responsibilities for
inspectors;
¢  developing and testing of a customized software to
detect trading irregularities;
>  developing and initiating training programs in the
areas of on-site inspections and off-site
surveillance systems;                                                                                       d
'   implementing new operational scheme in
conjunction with IMSS;
=>  designing and implementing focused training
programs to upgrade capacity; and
Q  preparing a statistical bulletin.
Evaluate and ensure the transparency of   *  Completion of sensitivity analysis and satisfactory   *   Sensitivity analysis:
the fiscal cost of reforms.                evaluation of actuarial methodologies and data base; and  =   Annex V, "Contractual Savings Development Program
- Mexico." (18)
*  Agreement to publish annually the actuarial income and   *  Actuarial income and expenses for IVCM
expenses for IVCM programs to make fiscal transition costs  => Letter from Carlos Noriega (SHCP) to Sri-Ram Aiyer
explicit.                                                   dated 5/17/96 agreeing to publish fiscal costs annually.
(19)
Transfer of retirement sub-accounts from   *  Having adopted transfer arrangements for accumulated  => "Transferencias Federales al IMSS, 1997-2000 (Draft).
Central Bank to private investment         SAR balances (5/1992-96) from Central Bank to AFOREs        (20)
managers.                                  over a period of four years.                            *   Transfer arrangements for SAR balances:



Appendix A: Page 6 of 11
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
I I ,*gg a r - "        A    .             .
...  ...... .
=>  Circular 002/95 IMSS-INFONAVIT, Diario Oficial
8/14/95. (21)
=l>  Circular 002/95 ISSSTE - FOVISSSTE, Diario Oficial
9/11/95. (22)
=>  "Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro" (SAR
__Law,_Article 7) 05/26/96. (3).
''. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .... ....
Minimize the fiscal cost and ensure        *   Initiation of a comprehensive audit by an independent and      *   "Time bound Plan for INFONAVIT" Annex B, of the
workers an adequate pension, by assuring        well-recognized firm to evaluate the loan portfolio,              Mexico, Contractual Savings Development Program
that funds invested in INFONAVIT                establish appropriate provisions for lossess, and assess          Loan, Minutes of Negotiation, IDB 9/6/96. (23)
achieve market rates of return, and the         INFONAVIT's overall operations and policies;                  *   Audit, external diagnostic and regular supervision::         (D
interest revenues are credited to workers'  *   Initiation of a regular supervisory process by CNBV under    >  Terminos de Referencia para la Revisi6n de                     w
pension accounts.                               procedures applicable to similar financial institutions;          Diagnostico Externo (CNBV). (24)
*   Initiation of implementation of the same accounting           =>  Proyecto de Diagnostico Externo al INFONAVIT, Peat
standards applicable to similar financial institutions by         Marwick, 7/12/96. (25)
CNBV;                                                         =>  Letter from Eduardo Fernandez (CNBV) to Mr. Miguel
*   Presentation of satisfactory draft for establishing new           Martinez (IDB) dated 10/4/96. (26)
disclosure procedures to the public, complementing the        *   Disclosure procedures
semi-annual presentation to the General Assembly of           =>  "Convenio de Colaboraci6n INFONAVIT-CONSAR"
INFONAVIT including:                                              dated 11/27/95. (27)
*   at least once a year, formal provision of             >  Publications from well circulated newspapers with
individualized information to contributors on their      respect to INFONAVIT's balance sheet statements
INFONAVIT subaccount via the AFORE,                      (1991 to 1996). (28).
including inter alia, statement of balance and rate
of return;
*   automatic provision upon workers' request of the
detailed information outlined above;
1' publication by CONSAR, at least twice a year, on
the perfornance of individual SIEFOREs and
INFONAVIT;
o Publication in well circulated newspapers, at least
once a year, of the performance of INFONAVIT,



Appendix A: Page 7 ofL )
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
including balance statement and rate of return;
Prior to the first individual reporting by AFOREs,
commercial banks will continue to provide, at least
once a year, individualized information to
contributors on the statement of their INFONAVIT
subaccount, inter alia, balance sheet statement and
rate of return.
*   Initiation of an actuarial review to evaluate underwriting
standards and estimate the net present value of the loan
portfolio;
*   Agree with the Bank on a time-bound restructuring plan for                                                               P.'
INFONAVIT, which will include the following criteria:                                                                   oD
' strengthening of loan recovery procedures,                                                                         w
including the design of a special plan for the
recovery of existing loans in arrears according to
agreed quantitative benchmarks;
¢   improve credit allocation procedures to ensure
better creditworthiness of borrowers;
<> provisioning for loan loss reserves according to the
recommendations of CNBV and well recognized
independent auditor and according to practices
applicable to financial institutions;
> ensure that regular external audits are undertaken
as required by the law;
¢ actions to reduce the subsidy component in
mortgage loans as workers' income rises;
Q promotion of transparency of information to
contributors regarding the benefits provided to
borrowers; and
Q rationalization of INFONAVIT's administrative
costs.



Appendix A: Page 8 of II
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
0FJINT IT TANETE OF  THE NEWENSIONYS  
Strengthen IMSS in its ability to manage   *  Legal and regulatory framework established for CONSAR,   *  Use of one number to unify SAR accounts and
account individualization, the           IMSS and INFONAVIT to use one number (that of IMSS)     SIEFORE accounts:
enforcement of billing and collection to  to unify past SAR accounts and SIEFORE accounts and to   =>  New Social Security Law dated 12/21/95, Art. 177. (1)
avoid evasion, and provision of benefits.  interchange and reconcile account information for each  => "Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro" (SAR
contributor;                                            Law). 05/26/96, Art. 74. (3)
=:> Circular 002i95 IMSS- INFONAVIT, Diario Oficial
CONSAR has developed and issued circulars providing     8/14/95. (21)
rules for identification of accounts and account transfers to   :  Circular 002/95 ISSSTE - FOVISSSTE, Diario Oficial
eliminate multiple accounts for individual contributors, to  9/11/95. (22)
individualize aggregated contributions of multiple   => "Convenio de Colaboraci6n INFONAVIT-CONSAR"
contributors, and to improve transparency of the system;  dated 11/27/95. (27)
(D
=> "Ley del INFONAVIT", Art. 38. (29)
*  Agreement signed between CONSAR/SHCP and IMSS on   => "Ley del ISSSTE", Art. 90-Bis-H. (30)
an action to improve the efficiency of the IMSS to ensure    =   "Convenio de Colaboraci6n IMSS-CONSAR" dated
overall implementation of the new operational scheme    6/26/95. (31)
including:                                           =>  "Convenio de Colaboraci6n ISSSTE-CONSAR" dated
(i) updating IMSS database, and                          6/26/95. (32)
(ii) strengthening the individualization of accounts.  *  identification of accounts and account transfers:
= Circular 004/95 IMSS-INFONAVIT, Diario Oficial
8/14/95. (33)
=> Circular 004/95 ISSSTE-FOVISSSTE, Diario Oficial
9/8/95. (34)
= Circular 007/95 IMSS-INFONAVIT, Diario Oficial
1/4/96. (35)
=' Circular 008/95 IMSS-INFONAVIT, Diario Oficial
1/8/96. (36)
=>  Circular 008/95 ISSSTE-FOVISSSTE, Diario Oficial
1/4/96. (37)
Agreement to improve IMSS efficiency:
>  Letter from Fernando Solis to the IDB dated 10/4/96,
including "Plan de Trabajo IMSS-CONSAR para la
l_________________________________ _____________________________________________________         Implementaci6n Operativa de la Reforma a la Ley del



Appendix A: Page 9 of II
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
Seguro Social. (16)
=> "Convenio de Colaboraci6n IMSS-CONSAR" dated
6/26./95. fx3!)
Conduct public awareness campaign to    .   Initiate a public awareness campaign.
bolster supportfor the reform and to
encourage participation in the new
pension system.
Recapitalize the Banking System
Restore the Health of the Banking
System.
Reform of Savings Protection Scheme      .   Completed study to evaluate the current liability protection
system and propose alternative more rational schemes
Reduce moral hazardfrom the current           which would lessened the moral hazard effect.
comprehensive liability protection.



Appendix A: Page 10 of 11
MEXICO - Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP I: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement conditions.
Numbers in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file)
L   M U ' AL.FUJNDS        i     :     :      _::::.      _______________:. ____::.
Improve the transparency of mutual       *   CNBVand CONSAR initiated review of the experience of    *   "Problematica de las Sociedades de Inversi6n en
funds operations and assure consistency      the mutualfunds industry over the past ten years, focusing     Mexico (1991-1994) by Luis Cerda and Raul Salgado
of regulation of mutualfunds with            in particular on issues of:                                   L6pez. (38)
SIEFORES.                                         >  valuation ofportfolio securities;
Q related-party transactions; and
¢ corporate governance.
Establish supervisory authority for      *   On May 24, 1996 the Ley de Sistemas de Ahorro para el     *   "Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro" (SAR
voluntary pension funds which                Retiro was enacted providing for CONSAR to oversee             Law). 05/26/96. (3)
complement mandatory system                  voluntary pension funds choosing to register with CONSAR
*   Consar Circulars 17-1 and 18-1, issued on 07/29/97,      (D
and 11/11/97 respectively                                 w
D                                                           E   N ONg  .D  S E.P S.g .IM.Ot ; . .: :::i :: : w :. .:: ? . : : :: : :.i' .i*,.'' ' '' ' '~~~. ..... .   ..  .    .. .    .. ....
DJNA AL LEAD LFEISURNCRE~GULATJONAND SUPER,VISION'                                            _______________
Deepen the insurance market for          *   Terms of reference agreed with CNSF and consultant        *   Terms of Reference dated 1/24/96. (39).
provision of annuities andfor life and       contracted to undertake study to review existing
disability coverage                          regulations and policies for provision of life and disability
by insurance companies.
Deepen the insurance market for          *   On May 24, 1996 the Ley General de Instituciones y        *   Reform to Articles 7 and 8 of the "Ley General de
provision of annuities.                      Sociedades Mutualistas de Seguros was enacted laying the       Instituciones y Sociedades Mutualistas de Seguros",
framework for the development and supervision of the           published in the "Diario Oficial" on 05/23/96. (2)
annuities market.                                         *   Terrns of Reference dated 1/24/96. (39).
*   Terms of reference agreed with CNSF to carry out a study
of changes needed to the regulatoryframeworkfor
annuities.



THE WORLD BANKJIFC/M.I.G.A.               Page 39                           APPENDIX B
OFFICE ME,MORANDUM
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE:  October 20, 1997
TO:  Mr. Olivier l,afourcade, Country Director, LCC1 C
FROM:  Gloria Grandolini, Sr. Financial Economist, LCSFS
E)XTENSION:  3-8784
SUBJECT:  Mexico -    Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP I) - Supervision
Proposed CSDP II - Identification Mission
Back-to-Office Report
[This Back to Office Report, and accompanying Aide Memoire, have been edited for
inclusion in the ICR for CSDP I - all sections related to future lending operations
have been removed.)
1.    A team of Bank staff and pension experts, along with IFC staff, visited Mexico
during September 21-27 to review progress in the implementation of Mexico's pension
reform which was supported by the CSDP I loan for US$400 million. This single tranche
loan was disbursed in August 1997.  In the context of accelerating Bank financial
assistance to Mexico, the mission was also to identify a possible follow up adjustment
operation (again single tranche) which would support continued implementation and
additional policy reforms. The team's findings are summarized in the attached Aide
Memoire (Annex II).
Overall Assessment
2.    Our assessment of the implementation of CSDP I is positive. This conclusion was
broadly confirmed by the institutions met. Our ICR will judge CSDP I as a success.
Pension Reform
3.    The mission met with all of the public institutions involved in the reform as well
as seven of the 17 private pension fund administrators (AFORES) (see list in Annex I).
The start up of implementation of the pension reform, which went into effect September
1, 1997, has exceeded nearly everyone's expectations. More than 90% of private sector
workers have affiliated to an AFORE. CONSAR has been widely acknowledged to have
done an excellent job in the regulation, supervision and enforcement of the new system.
The flexibility in the commission structure of the AFORES established by the
Government and the annual limit to switching AFORES are both seen as improvements
over other Latin American reforms.



Olivier Lafourcade               Page 40                       October 17, 1997
Attachments
cc: Mission Members
Gloria Grandolini (Team Leader); John Stein, Miguel Navarro, Baralides Alberdi,
Truman Packard (LCSFP); P. S. Srinivas (IMDPI); Mark Alloway, Mario Alonso
(IFC-CLACM); Olivia Mitchell (The Wharton School)
cc:
Messrs./Mmes. Burki, Perry (LCRVP); Montes-Negret, Vieira da Cunha,
Hamann, Clifford, Reyes Vidal (LCC1C); Aiyer, De la Torre (LCSFP); Celaya,
Cruikshank (IFC-CLACM); LCSFP Files (A. Calcopietro); Machado (IDB)



Olivier Lafourcade               Page 41                        October 17, 1997
ANNEXI
INSTITUTIONS MET
Secretariat of Finance (SHCP)
Central Bank (Banco de Mexico)
Social Security Institute (IMSS)
Pension Fund Superintendency (CONSAR)
Private sector workers' housing fund (INFONAVIT)
Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV)
National Insurance Commission (CNSF)
Seven of 17 private pension fund Administrators (AFORES)
* AFORE XXI
*  INBIURSA
* BANCOMER
* BANCRECER-DRESDNER
* Profituro GNP
* BITAL-ING
* PREVINTER
Entity which ce:ntrally processes account and transfers information (PROCESAR).
GMG
L:\MEXICO\CSDPII\MIS997\BTOR9-97.DOC
October 20, 1997 10:39 AM



Page 42
CONFIDENTIAL
MEXICO - CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS MISSION
(September 21-27, 1997)
AIDE MEMOIRE
This note summarizes the main findings and recommendations of the World Bank mission on
contractual savings development that visited Mexico City during September 21-27, 1997. The
World Bank team was headed by Gloria Grandolini and included John Stein, Miguel Navarro,
Baralides Alberdi, P.S. Srinivas, Truman Packard, and Olivia Mitchell. Mark Alloway from the
IFC joined the mission for two days. Fernando Montes-Negret, Paulo Vieira de Cunha, and
Richard Clifford, from the Bank's Mexico office joined a number of meetings. The Mission
would like to thank the Mexican Government for the collaboration and support provided.
The objectives of the mission were to:
* assess progress to date in the implementation of the pension reform supported by the
first Contractual Savings Development Loan (CSDP I);
* gather information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
for CSDP I;
* supervise implementation of the on-going PHRD Grant for the preparation of a
proposed CSDP II Loan; and
* identify policy areas to be included in CSDP II which would support the continued
implementation of the Government's new pension system and complementary
financial sector reforms.
The Agenda of the Mission Work was coordinated by SHCP's Unidad de Planeacion del
Desarollo.
L. Key Results and Feedback
The Authorities should be congratulated on the successful start-up of the new pension scheme
that was reflected in many of the comments and observations the Mission received during its
interviews with various public and private entities and its own findings. The Sections below are
organized by overall impressions and findings by topic.
Overall impressions. The Mexican system has gotten off to a good start in terms of apparent
public acceptance (as indicated by the higher than expected rate of affiliation). CONSAR is
doing a superb job in supervision and enforcement and is well respected by the AFOREs. The
verification of affiliates against the Social Security data base appears to be effective and the
centralized collection system is expected to perform well.
Interviews with AFOREs suggest the principal concern is the continued high level of
Government control as regards almost all aspects of the new pension system. Some of these
concerns may be understandable because of the Government's desire to get the new system off to
a strong start. However, the Mission's advice is that this concern should be revisited continually
as the market develops.



Page 43
Market participants also perceive that the highest risk to the ultimate success of the new pension
system is that political forces could reverse parts of the processes and thus compromise the
effectiveness of the reforms.
Affiliation Process. Reactions were mixed. On the positive side, the high level of affiliation
and the verification process against the Social Security data base suggest that the process was
highly successful. Criticism centered around the fact that the process was considered by some as
not transparent and that companies pressured employees to join particular AFOREs. The
Mission understands that this could be related to competition for market share but this is a matter
that CONSAR will need to remain vigilant about and address market perceptions.
Switching AFOREs (Traspasos). There was wide agreement that it was sensible to avoid the
Chilean experience and that the one year time frame is reasonable. As could be expected, the
smaller AFOREs felt, however, that affiliates should be presented with as few barriers as
possible in order to be able to switch funds (e.g., avoid excessive bureaucracy). The larger
AFOREs, on the contrary, would like to see stronger barriers to switching. The Mission
recommends that CONSAR issue the related regulations as soon as possible.
Coverage. It was widely acknowledged that the system should be extended to the self-employed
which do not currently have any other official pension option. The mission recommends that it
should also include Government workers, employees of Public Enterprises, State plans, and
public universities. In addition, future Bank missions would like to gather additional information
on the financial situation of IMSS workers' occupational scheme. The proposed CSDP II Loan
preparation would include the diagnostic and strategic work necessary for the future inclusion of
public sector workers.
Collection System. There was unanimous agreement that the centralized system is preferable to
an individual collection system, and confidence that it will perform well. However, it is
expensive and cannot easily be expanded to handle the information necessary for the operation of
the proposed new health system. Further, it duplicates the income tax system. The Mission
recommends that these issues be looked at under CSDP II.
CONSAR: Regulation, Supervision, and Enforcement. CONSAR was widely acknowledged
to have done an excellent job thus far. The overall regulatory framework for the initial
implementation of the pension system is in place. Market participants recommended that
CONSAR provide the remaining regulations as soon as possible, including its thinking about
additional SIEFOREs. CONSAR is already drafting a number of regulations whose need has
become apparent. The proposed CSDP II Loan could include these new regulations as part of
policy actions carried out. One of the key pending areas is the independent funding and
governance of CONSAR, especially given its perceived political vulnerability.



Page 44
Our interviews suggested that some AFOREs may not reach a break-even situation in the near
term and may forced into merger or bankruptcy. CONSAR should be prepared for this event.
Two Directors of AFOREs mentioned that they are aware of this eventuality and noted that they
would not know how to price the assets of the AFORE(s) that may be for sale. Lack of pricing
may forestall the market for divestiture. This is also one of the problems in issuing the
regulation for the switching of AFOREs, if under a different guise.
Investment Policies. The AFOREs interviewed and the Mission felt that the investment regime
is overly conservative but it was understood that this sort of discipline was needed during the
first year to foster confidence in the system. Most concerns were related to when and under what
conditions new SIEFOREs would be created and equity investments allowed. Many AFOREs
suggested that even if the additional SIEFOREs could only be established after one year, the
regulations should be issued as soon as possible to allow the AFOREs to plan their future
investment strategies. It was also felt that this could reduce the political risk of the Government
delaying or not permitting a more liberal investment regime. There were a number of other
concerns - shared by the Mission - on current limitations, such as the restriction on no cash
balances, the requirement that monies be invested the day they are received, the restriction on
repos, and the withholding tax on securities of less than 1 year maturity. In addition, there were
concerns about the valuation of securities and the impact on the volatility which is believed to
result from the design of the vector mechanism for valuing investments.
Commissions. The flexibility of commissions in the Mexican system is regarded as healthy
compared to other Latin American systems. Comments indicated that perhaps it produced too
much confusion among the less financially sophisticated workers and gave salespeople scope to
manipulate information. The Mission's view is that this may best be tackled through further
efforts by CONSAR to educate the public. The Mission also felt that the potential for political
pressure to establish ceilings on commissions should be strongly resisted by the Authorities and
addressed by CONSAR's working with policy makers to inform them on the advantages of the
current system.
Operational Costs. Based on the experience of earlier pension reforms in Latin America, the
private pillar will be costly in the beginning given the expected level of contributions to the
AFOREs. This means that a significant share not only of the "transition generation", but also of
future cohorts could end up receiving the publicly provided pensions (old PAYG or minimum
pension). Thus, the fiscal cost of the reform could be significant even in the steady state under
reasonable macroeconomic assumptions and for workers who participate for lengthy periods in
the private pillar. Though we have looked at this issue before, it may be worthwhile to revisit it
again in light of our knowledge regarding the current commission structure in the Mexican
market and returns achieved in the first year of AFORE operations.
Voluntary Contributions.  Comments received expressed the desire for changes in the
regulations on tax treatment to encourage these contributions and to help increase domestic
savings. The Mission expresses its willingness to work with the authorities to analyze such
actions.
Transfer of SAR92 Balances. AFOREs indicated that it was not clear how these transfers will
work or which instruments will be issued (e.g., Government indexed medium-term bonds).



Page 45
Frustration was expressed that sufficient attention was not being paid to the views of AFOREs as
to what instrument they would like to see. Further concern was voiced that the whole process
could be lengthy because of the need to reconcile multiple worker accounts, and that this
technical delay might negatively impact the image of the private pension system as workers
would not understand why the SAR92 money had not been credited in a timely fashion to their
new AFORE accounts.  The Mission believes that the instruments and administrative
mechanisms for the timely transfer of SAR92 accounts should be defined and announced as soon
as possible.
Disability and Life and Annuities. The Mission agrees with the view expressed by the
AFOREs that these areas of coverage need to be privatized as soon as possible. Based on
international experience this would lead to lower claims and lower premia (closer to 1% rather
than the current 2.5%). This would also help speed up the development of local financial
institutions as important institutional investors in the domestic capital market.  The Mission
would like to see policy actions toward the reform of this sector as part of CSDP II...
IV. CSDP I - ICR Preparation
The Mission was successful in obtaining the necessary inputs to complete the ICR for the CSDP
I Loan. The Authorities will prepare their own assessment of the design, preparation, and
implementation of the first CSDP loan (approximately 10 pages) along the guidelines discussed
during the mission with Mr. Vicente Corta. Upon returning to Washington, the Bank will
complete of the first draft of the ICR, which is expected to be shared with the Authorities by end-
1997.
Mexico City, D.F.
September 26, 1997






Page 47                          APPENDIX C
DIRECCION GENERAL DE CREDITO PUBLICO
s n Z  DIRECCION DE ORGANISMOS FINANCIEROS
INTERNACIONALES
SECRFTARIA
DE
HACICRDAYCREU00OPUBLIC              M&xico D. F. a 29 de ab&iLi de2. 1998.
Oficio No. 393.111 .5.-112
GLORIA GRANDOLINII
Senior Financial Economist
Finance Sector Management Unit
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington D.C. 29433
Room 15-073
Hago referencia a su comunicaci6n con fecha 24 de marzo de 1998 a traves de la cual
solicita usted comentarios al borrador del Implementation Completion Report (ICR) dal
Programa de Ahorros Contractuales (Prdstamo No. 4123-ME), contratado con el Banco
Mundial.
Al respecto, me permito enviarle el documento que recoge observaciones realizadas a dicc o
reporte por las distintas agencias del Gobierno Mexicano involucradas en el Programa.
Lo anterior, con el prolp6sito de que dicho docuinento sea incorporado a la version definitiva
del ICR.
Sin otro particular por el momento, reitero a usted la seguridad de ml consideraci6n mas
distinguida.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION
El Director,
Ricardo Ochoa



Page 48
Opinion and Evaluatlon
A.- ABOUT THE PROGRAM
Derived from the implementation of the CSDP I loan granted by the World Bank,
the first phase of the reform to the existing pension system in Mexico was in
general a success. The Federal Government is pleased with the development and
operation of the new system. Following are the most important aspects of same.
One year has passed since the process of affiliation to the new system began. Up
to April 13, 1998, the Afores have affiliated 11,989,292 workers, which represents
81% of the estimated market share for 1998 (14,819,093). The affiliation results
have been higher than expected, this is proof of the public acceptance of the
system. The affiliation process has been overall very successful.
On the other hand, the new collection system for contributions to the Social
Security System, entailed an important cultural and administrative change that
simplifies the collection processes for employers, as well as for private and public
entities that take part in the pension system. The operative change has been
positively accepted, for former mechanisms were simplified and modemized.
These former mechanisms supposed for employers to pay their contributions by
means of certificates provided by IMSS and INFONAVIT. With the new system, the
administrative procedures for employers, IMSS and INFONAVIT were diminished,
given the fact that contributions are now paid electronically. Likewise, the new
system allowed the unification of the collection systems of IMSS and INFONAVIT,
which resulted in a considerable rise in the amounts received by INFONAVIT.
Consequently, the reception of information and resources was speeded up.
The information gathered through the Sistema Onico de Autodeterminaci6n (SUA)
has the necessary quality for PROCESAR to correctly carry on with the
individualization of contributions to workers accounts.
This way, after four collections in Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada y Vejez
(RCV), 10.2 billion pesos have been collected. For the housing sub-account, 8.7
billion pesos were obtained, and 7.4 million pesos were collected in the voluntary
contributions sub-account.
With means to protect the purchasing power of workers savings, an investment
regime was created, with clear boundaries within which SIEFORES may nianage
workers resources and compete in the market Likewise, it is important to point out
that there are technical rules for the valuation of instruments acquired by
SIEFORES. These provide precise information with respect to the amount of the
resources built up in the individual workers accounts.



Page 49
Up to April 13, 1998, SIEFORES managed 23.8 billion pesos, which include
employer-employee contributions, social quota and govemmental contributions,
interests generated by said concepts and transfer of SAR 92 balances. Up to date,
SIEFORES have requested SAR 92 transfers for an amount of 10.8 billion pesos,
which represent 31 % of the total assets of the retirement sub-accounts.
Up to April 13, 1998, the portfolio of SIEFORES was distributed as follows: CETES
34.7%; BONDES 1.8%; BONDES 91, 39.9%; AJUSTABONOS 1.5%; UDIBONOS
14.6%; Papel Privado 0.9%; Papel Bancario 0.2%; DEPBMX 6.6%.
The investment regime of SIEFORES is currently conservative, due to the need to
foster confidence in the system during its first year of operation. In the near future,
new SIEFORES will be authorized, and they will be able to operate with an
investment regime that will allow Investments in a broader range of instruments.
On the other hand, the CONSAR is successfully carrying out its role as supervisor
and regulator of the new pension system. Aware of the importance of protecting
the interests of workers, as well as of supervising the correct operation of the
system in general, CONSAR has developed a system by means of which it obtains
information of both the different entities that take place in the pension system and
the financial markets, in an attempt to verify that the operations carried out by said
participants strictly abide by the corresponding legal regulations. This way,
CONSAR is able to control all participants simultaneously, reviewing every registry
and movement performed.
Regarding the annuities market, created due to the reform, it is important to
mention that 13 insurance companies have been authorized to operate by the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, and up to March 15, 1998 have granted
8,526 annuities. These correspond to work risks and life and disability coverage.
The total amount of the insurance premium Is 2.4 billion pesos.
Overall, it Is possible to say that we have today a new pension system operating in
a satisfactory manner. The hard work of all the participants in said system was vital
to reach this goal. The World Bank financial and technical support was of great
help in order to achieve the goals imposed. We truly believe that the new pension
system is off to a good start.
B.- OPERATIONAL ISSUES
Once the policy conditions were fulfilled to declare the effectiveness of the loan
and the sub-loan, as well as the legal opinion was signed, the disbursement was
made in one withdraw only. The effectiveness of the loan was declared by the
World Bank on August 18h, 1997. On August 21t, 1997, the Bank disbursed the
total amount of the loan, USD $ 400,000,000.00.



Page 50
The disbursement procedure was very expedite because the Bank simplified it by
not requiring mimport orders'  (Procedimientos de Importaci6n), which were
required in other Adjustment Loans, such as the one contracted by BANOBRAS,
S.N.C., for the Communications and Transportaton Sector, (loan No. 3207-ME).
Therefore,  Mexican Authorities are very pleased about this new facility of the
World Bank.
C.- CONCLUSION
Generally speaking, Mexican Authorties agree with the World Bank's opinion
expressed on the Implementation Completion Report. The implementation of the
Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 1) in the Mexican social security
system and financial sector has been very sucoessful.
This Program has proven to be very supportive in the achievement of the
governmental objectives for the sector. The govemment is satisfied with the
quality of the support and advice received from the World Bank. In fact, Mexican
authorities regard the relationship with the Wond Bank as an important factor for an
efficient integration of the Program.
The new pension system is now implemented and able to operate and meet its
goals of equity, efficiency and domestic savings growth.  Nevertheless, the
authorities are conscious that the system still needs to be consolidated.
Accordingly, It Is the Govemrnment intent to receive the valuable support from the
World Bank for implementing in the future further programs in the sector.



Page 51                             APPENDIX D
Banco Interamencano de Desarrollo  inter-American Development Bank
Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento a  Banque interam6ricaine de d6veloppenment
Washington, D.C. 20577
CABLE: INTAMBANC
April 20,1998
Ms. Gloria Grandolini
Senior Financial Sector Specialist
Latin American Regional Department
The World Bank
Dear Ms. Grandolini:
Thank you for sharing with us the draft of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
evaluating the World Bank's Contractual Savings Development (CSD) Program I, prepared
together with the Inter-American Development Bank's CSD Program. These programs were
approved in support of the Mexican Government's reform of the pension system for private
sector workers. In regard to your invitation to prepare our own evaluation report, we consider
this review premature given that our two-tranche Program is still in execution.
Having reviewed the draft ICR in detail, we consider it provides a very good analysis of the
reform program, in particular with regard to the new AFOREs system (workers affiliation to
the AFOREs, market structure, and supervision and enforcement); the Centralized Data system
and tle role of PROCESAR; and the promotion of the reform.
However, we do have some comments to the draft ICR, which we hope you will find useful in
your evaluation of the Program. More specifically, the report presents confusion in terms of the
role played by INFONAVTT within the overall pension system for private sector workers.
Limited information is also provided in terms of the challenges faced by the reform in regard to
INFONAVIT.
The draft ICR presents some contradictions in terms of the cofmnancing efforts between the
IDB and the World Bank. In the first section, the report indicates that the Policy Matrixes of
the IDB and the World Bank Programs were equivalent, while in latter sections the report calls
attention to their differences. In fact, the 1DB Program withb a broader scope was based on two
tranches, while the World Bank Program was based on one tranche to be followed by
additional pension reform operations. Despite the different approaches selected to assist the
Mexican pension reform process, it would be important to emphasize the efforts undertaken
during project preparation to ensure coordination in the areas that both projects addressed.



Page 52
Ms. Gloria Grandolini
April 20,1998
In regard to the Investment Management Regime and the concems that workers' savings rnight
be channeled to weak banking institutions, the IDB Program placed greater emphasis on
qualitative factors while the World Bank Program placed greater emphasis on quantitative
factors, It is worthwhile mentioning that these approaches are complementary and not mutually
exclusive as the report presents. To help clarify the differences between the IDB and the World
Bank Programs, the ICR report could include an Annex containing the Policy Matrix of the
IDB Prograrn.
We will be glad to respond to any questions that you might have in regard to these comments.
We hope to continue working closely together during the preparation of the World Bank's CSD
Program II and the implementation of the second part of the IDB's CSD Program.
Sincerely,
M. Esperanza Lasagabaster.






11loh') ZL4/
4.             Nogalrs                      2   /    Joosra.t0-                                                                                                                              lo
wEnsaouAo   \  ,q    ?  \. 4teS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sar  aptl
t;   } %t > °°''°et/C4   r--- '                                                                                                      ~M  E XICO
3V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JN3I0  &A1 !  
StAA\N        >RLLtd             -c,,&dOh,.go                                                                                                                                               0 }<)        Principatl citias or tow"ns
raOuSrsd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                                                                          Diniri.rl Irraitways~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt ..   pi.
N  CAIFOINIA-,                                                                                                                                                                                 Dwidd h.9h,y
svR                                                      Portal\                                                                                                                       S.l.utrrl  ocw,q  bstairlo rood.
JR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    Prrcpl-ipot
Stat. b-'rsrIo,-s
Guf   of    Mexco
M."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
P A C F C   OCEbANt                                                   GbQ   %t                                   <                       2  t
20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t5 t        A i: jV ~j* /n F4ae \ < Cory00. A i    I
EXE   ChIIPOnC;neO    XI-CO  Jab             -o'    L/  42Co,         - -                       IBELIZE
KItOMEIERS   °   190    Igo    300    4"0  2L2DSAcopuloe_ )-{- -Acapulc
MILES a            00           M0            M0                                                                                                                                                'IG U                  AL
uw,un1.,w orut,.d. cudw . uulutct ih   r Ih0h5W ir.rat  d nt  Wu,jd                                                                                                                            '              
Buuh O.n-. 7O 4.ucuauu usand rha tunnduesi. sho_uw,Le aono OIKd W  b ~SEorLWm ismm   
unnwtsaulsnu;ew¢rcw.urncrLLw/" 0. ,ran ....uu.ar. Tupl r   ,                                                                                                                                                                           HONDURAS
FEBRUARY 1992



