Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4123-ME
Loan Agreement
(Contractual Savings Development Program Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 2, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4123-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997, between BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated October 14, 1996, from United 
Mexican States (the Guarantor) describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve restructuring and development of the Guarantor's social 
insurance system (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Guarantor's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Guarantor by making the Loan 
to the Borrower as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made." 
(b)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement."
(c)
The first sentence of Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and 
of these General Conditions."
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted.
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and 
the Bank, the 
Guarantor shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Guarantor and the 
Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Guarantee Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AFORES" means Administradoras de Fondos para el Retiro, limited 
liability companies for the administration of  SIEFORES (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"CONSAR" means Comisión Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro, 
the Guarantor's National Commission of the Retirement Savings System;
(c)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Investment Management Regulations" means CONSAR's regulations with 
respect to investment management of SIEFORES (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Prudential Regulations" means CONSAR's regulations with respect to the 
management, operation and supervision of AFORES and SIEFORES (as hereinafter defined); 
and
(f)
"SIEFORES" means Sociedades de Inversiones Especializadas de Fondos para 
el Retiro, specialized limited liability companies for the investment of retirement 
funds. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in Banco 
de  México, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.
(b) 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements with 
the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer 
to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor 
to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on 
account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such 
contractual arrangements. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall participate in the exchanges of views referred 
to in Section 3.01 (a) and (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, by independent and qualified 
auditors; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
Page  4
four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement have been executed;
(b)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program;
(c)
the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement, with the progress achieved by the Guarantor in 
the carrying out of the Program;
(d) 
the Guarantor, through CONSAR, has issued Investment Management 
Regulations and Prudential Regulations satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 1, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 México, D.F.
México
Page  5
Cable address: 
Telex:
BANTECARIO 01772619
BNOSME
Mexico City
Mexico City
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D. C., United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ Abelardo Bravo Herrera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
  --
Alcoholic beverages
Page  6
121
  --
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
  --
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525
  --
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
  --
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges) non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and
watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971
  --
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates);
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Guarantor or international agreements to 
which the Guarantor is a party); and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories: or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
SCHEDULE 2
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Page  7
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.  
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread. \0c
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollar for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Banks' 
outstanding borrowings or 
Page  8
portions thereof allocated to 
fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR 
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed 
Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2008, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
