Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4123-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Contractual Savings Development Program Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 2, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4123-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated October 14, 1996 from the 
Guarantor describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
restructuring and development of the Guarantor's social insurance system (the 
Program), declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
WHEREAS (B) on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, the Bank has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Guarantor by making a loan 
in an amount equal to four hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000) to Banco Nacional de 
Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the Borrower), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake 
other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and Section 1.02  of the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 2.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements with 
the Borrower referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and, unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such 
contractual arrangements.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each exchange of views as referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report 
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Section 5.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01.  The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (Piso 9)
03100 México, D.F. 
México
Page  3
Telex:
1777313 - SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have cause this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Silva-Herzog 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
