Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3020 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Grant 2 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (35%);General industry and trade 
sector (25%);Secondary education (15%);Health (15%);General finance 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P104931 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Royal Government of Bhutan 
Bhutan 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O.Box 117, 
Secretariat 
Thimphu 
Bhutan 
Tel: 975-2-326778 
ugyen@mof.gov.bt 
Date PID Prepared 
April 4, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 22, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 21, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Bhutan is in the midst of a period of extraordinary change 
–
regarding governance, social 
development, and the economy.  Governance arrangements are undergoing substantial but 
deliberate and carefully planned change.  Consultations are underway on a new Constitution to be 
finalized shortly, that will usher in a democratic, Constitutional monarchy (the Constitution can 
be viewed at www.constitution.bt.gov).  The Constitution is to be ratified at a special assembly in 
2007 and the first direct elections under the new Constitution are anticipated sometime in 2008.  
The King had indicated his intention to abdicate in favor of the crown prince at that time, but he 
abdicated at the end of 2006, citing his wish to give the crown prince more time to gain 
experience ahead of the deepening of the democratization process.  He had been ruling Bhutan for 
33 years, though he gave up absolute power in 1998.  The Constitution seeks to promote good 
governance, emphasizing transparency, accountability, efficiency and professionalism.  Three 
independent Constitutional bodies were established in 2006, which are a central part of the 
governance reform process.  These are the Office of the Auditor General, the Anti-Corruption 
Commission, and the Election Commission, whose heads are independent of the executive and 
report directly to the National Assembly.   
Social indicators continue to show improvement, and Bhutan is on-track to meeting most of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), a remarkable achievement.  Two MDGs have 
already been met: improving access to safe water and reducing the number of underweight 
children under-five years of age.  The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) continues to spend 
heavily on the provision of public services like health and education, especially in remote areas.  
Available information on poverty suggests that it is falling, with a head count ratio of 31.7 
percent in the 2003 Bhutan Living Standards Survey (BLSS), in contrast with 36.3 percent in the 
2000 Household Income and Expenditure Survey.  The findings of these surveys are not fully 
Page  2
2
comparable, however, and the RGoB plans to launch another BLSS in 2007.  Monitoring and 
evaluation remains challenging, as significant data gaps and uncertainties are still being 
addressed.  Most notably, the first census carried out in mid 2005 showed that the population was 
672,425, significantly below what had previously been reported, especially compared to the 
estimates of the UN agencies and the World Bank.  This will have a major impact on the 
calculation of various indicators.  The RGoB remains committed to strengthening its systems for 
monitoring and evaluation. 
After almost a decade of construction, and the expenditure of the equivalent of more than 120 
percent of GDP, the massive Tala hydropower project was commissioned in July 2006, and is 
expected to be operating at full capacity by the summer of 2007 (generation is limited in the 
winter due to lower water flow).  The dramatic economic impetus from Tala will be spread across 
this fiscal year and next, with GDP growth expected to accelerate to over 16 percent in 2006/7 
and 9 percent in 2007/08, while domestic revenues are projected to rise by 37 percent and 35 
percent in the same years.  Hydropower remains the key driver of the Bhutanese economy.  The 
start of large debt service payments on the debt portion of Tala as well as other factors, however, 
mean that the expansion of the resource envelope will be partially offset, and the RGoB will need 
to manage expectations at a level commensurate with resource availability, as well as ensuring 
the effectiveness of public spending.  Bhutan also faces important questions of whether, how, and 
how fast to develop other hydropower resources.  Other sectors, such as tourism and agribusiness, 
are growing rapidly, and the RGoB aims to create an environment conducive to private sector 
development in order to sustain growth, reduce poverty and generate adequate employment 
opportunities for growing cohorts of school leavers. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The development policy program supports the RGoB’s efforts to implement the policy and 
institutional changes that will contribute importantly to the achievement of better socioeconomic 
outcomes and poverty reduction.  Carrying forward the objectives of the first operation, the 
second Development Policy Grant (DPG2) aims to help the RGoB: (a) enhance economic 
performance as well as the delivery of public services by strengthening macroeconomic and fiscal 
management, (b) ensure the effective use of public resources by bolstering fiduciary systems in 
financial management and procurement, (c) create better income earning opportunities by 
improving the investment climate, facilitating greater labor market flexibility, and increasing 
foreign direct investment, (d) raise educational attainment, particularly in previously under served 
areas, by expanding access to high quality education services, and (e) reduce maternal mortality 
by increasing the number of births delivered in health facilities. 
Consistent with the goals and strategies articulated in the Ninth Five-Year Plan (9FYP) and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the proposed DPG2 selectively supports five 
components of the RGoB’s reform program.  These are expanded from DPG1 to highlight the 
strengthening of fiduciary systems, including procurement. The five component areas are: 
a) 
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework, and strengthening fiscal 
policy.  
b) 
Bolstering fiduciary systems in the areas of financial management and procurement  
c) 
Enhancing the investment climate for private sector growth and employment generation;  
d) 
Augmenting the quality of and access to education; and  
e) 
Improving health care utilization. 
Page  3
3
As a part of the DPG1 preparation process, seven specific government actions were 
highlighted as indicative triggers for DPG2.  An eighth up-front action on procurement was added 
in the course of the dialogue on DPG2, and the emphasis on the initiatives related to reducing 
maternal mortality was shifted towards demand side factors.  The revised up-front actions for 
DPG2 are: 
1. 
The Budget Policy and Fiscal Framework Statement (BPFFS) is circulated as a part of the 
annual budget preparation process starting in 2007-08, and annual budget numbers 
(expenditure, revenue, deficits and debt) are developed in accordance with BPFFS 
targets. Key steps in the process include preparing drafts through the Macroeconomic 
Framework Coordination Committee, debating the framework more widely, seeking 
Council of Ministers endorsement, and including the final version in the Budget 
presentation  
2. 
The annual financial statement for the year 2005-06 is prepared by December31, 2006 
and submitted for audit; the in-year budget report for the six months ending December 
31, 2006 is prepared by April 15, 2007. 
3. 
The revised procurement manual is issued by March 2007. 
4. 
The Labor and Employment Act is submitted to the National Assembly by July 2006. 
5. 
The business registration process is simplified, including the number of procedures, time 
taken and costs involved by March 2007. 
6. 
20 new Community Primary Schools in remote and/or underserved areas are established 
to increase enrollment at the primary level toward achievement of the enrollment-related 
MDG target. 
7.  The reformed Education Information Management System is to be developed and 
implemented by piloting the system through central and dzongkhang-based workshops by 
April 2007. 
8. 
Design a pilot in two-three geogs linked to a Basic Health Unit in two districts (Trongsa 
and Mongar) to test new initiatives to increase community awareness and health 
promotion interventions regarding antenatal and delivery care, and to strengthen 
community participation in this area, linking the community more directly with health 
services. The situation analysis and action plan for the pilot would be submitted on 
March 15, 2007 and the pilot would begin on April 15, 2007.  
Overall, the RGoB has made good progress and is on track to meeting the up-front actions.   
Page  4
4
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The RGoB’s deepening program of policy and institutional reforms is a key part of this strong 
development progress, and the RGoB is seeking a follow-on DPG2 from the World Bank to 
support its efforts.
1
In addition to maintaining momentum on its reform program, the delay in 
the commissioning of the Tala hydropower project, as well as other factors, mean that the 
resource envelope in the short run is not expanding as much as previously anticipated, and the 
proposed grant would provide US$12 million in budget support to help the RGoB sustain the 
expenditures needed during the current period to continue progressing towards its ambitious 
development goals.  The program is commensurate with the existing technical capacity and 
circumstances in the country, and the RGoB is committed to deepening the process.  Continuing 
support from IDA will help further strengthen the reform program and build continuity during the 
upcoming political transition.  The envisaged support would selectively underpin key components 
of the RGoB’s reform agenda, and would be the second in a series of two operations programmed 
in the Country Assistance Strategy completed in 2005.   Further operations could be processed if 
both the RGoB and the Bank continue to find this an effective mode of supporting development 
in Bhutan.  
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
12 
 Total 
12 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Department of Aid and Debt Management (DADM), Ministry of Finance will be 
responsible for the overall implementation of DPG2. The RGoB has established an inter-
ministerial group of officials, headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Finance to provide overall 
coordination for the DPG2. This group has been working with the Bank team since the inception 
of the proposed operation.  
The Bank team will monitor actions and review implementation progress of the proposed 
operation. The Policy Program Matrix of the proposed operation provides a results framework 
that describes expected outcomes at the end of the program, as well as indicators to measure 
success. During the supervision phase of the operation, these benchmarks will be regularly 
evaluated and interim steps taken by the RGoB will be monitored.  Capacity constraints and data 
limitations remain challenging, but significant progress has been made in addressing these issues, 
and wide-ranging technical assistance inputs are included as a part of most donor-financed 
operations in Bhutan.  
The Bank team has also been deeply engaged in fiduciary issues, through an extensive TA 
program and supervision activities on investment projects, as well as the DPG2 support to the 
1
Bhutan is an IDA only country and qualifies for 100 percent grants for the second year in FY07 because (i) the ratio of the 
present value of external debt to GDP exceeds the threshold value of 50 percent, and (ii) the ratio of the present value of external 
debt to exports is more than the threshold value of 200 percent.  B
hutan’s IDA allocation in FY07 and FY08 is about US$15.7 
million in each year, but as small state with a population of less than 1.5 million, Bhutan can cumulatively frontload up to 80% of 
its overall IDA14 indicative allocation.  The actual allocation for FY08 and whether Bhutan will again qualify for grants will 
depend on a number of factors, including country performance and the findings of a more complete debt sustainability analysis.   
Page  5
5
RGoB’s ongoing reform program in the areas of financial management and procurement.  While 
several challenges remain, the core elements of a sound fiduciary system are largely in place.  
Progress is also being made in strengthening the capacity of the accountability and oversight 
institutions, and establishing the necessary legal underpinnings needed to ensure that the financial 
management and transparency demands arising from the increased revenues and spending 
expected over the coming years are met. 
 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
The expected benefits of the project relate closely to the objectives noted above, reducing 
poverty by contributing to improved macroeconomic management, strengthened fiduciary 
systems to ensure the effective use of public resources, better service delivery, especially in 
education and health, and accelerated private sector-based growth and employment generation.  
In a generally well-managed country like Bhutan, which is on-track for achieving most of the 
MDGs, the expected benefits of DPG2 in supporting the government’s program and further 
progress are substantial. 
The main risks that need to be managed relate to: (a) political uncertainty, associated with the 
transition to democracy 
(medium)
;
(b) external shocks, stemming from the lack of economic 
diversification 
(low)
;
and (c) capacity constraints, due to the small scale of government 
(medium)
.
The major political changes underway include the recent abdication of the king and 
replacement by his son, the planned formation of political parties, the expected approval of the 
new Constitution, the upcoming legislative elections, and the formation of a new government in 
2008.  To a large extent, mitigation of political risks lies outside the scope of this proposed 
project, but sustainability is helped by the extensive and careful preparation of the ongoing 
changes in governance, and the strong ownership of the reform program by the current 
government (and civil service).  Indeed, the RGoB views the reform program as an important 
source of continuity through the transition.   
The risk of external shocks is largely due to the lack of economic diversification, reflecting 
local realities that are unlikely to change over the medium term, such as the dependence on 
hydropower.  Still, the RGoB’s effort to strengthen macroeconomic and public expenditure 
management are important mitigation measures, helping manage fiscal volatility, for example. 
Capacity also bears importantly on the sustainability of the program.  For example, many 
civil servants are engaged in special research committees on the initiative of the new king, and 
those who wish to contest in legislative elections must permanently resign from the civil service.  
The design of the DPG program takes into account capacity constraints (through selective focus, 
limited number of triggers, simplicity in policy design), and builds on the strong emphasis on 
technical assistance and capacity building in the RGoB’s engagement with donors.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The proposed operation seeks to provide sound macroeconomic and fiscal underpinnings for 
continued steady economic growth to help improve the quality of life for all sections of the 
population, with special focus on unreached and vulnerable groups. The challenges of economic 
diversification, employment generation, private sector development, and domestic resource 
mobilization require continued attention.  Measures to increase incomes, enhance access to basic 
services, information, education and health services—with a special focus on remote, under-
served areas—will be particularly beneficial to the poor. Efforts to enhance the investment 
climate for private sector growth and employment generation will create new opportunities and 
reduce the dependence of the poor on agricultural employment.  While data is limited, social 
Page  6
6
indicators continue to show improvement and Bhutan is on track to meeting most of the MDGs.  
The RGoB continues to spend heavily on the provision of public services like health and 
education, especially in remote areas.  The proposed DPG2 supports further progress toward 
meeting these objectives.   
The DPG2 is a sequel to the first development policy grant and continues to target the four 
components previously supported by DPG1, as well as an additional component on procurement. 
The environmental screening of the DPG program (including the newly added procurement 
component), concluded that it will have no adverse environmental impacts.  It is also worth 
noting that environmental protection and sustainability have long been a high priority in Bhutan.  
For example, the RGoB is committed to maintaining 60 percent of the land under forest cover, 
and has further reaffirmed this policy in the draft Constitution.  While capacity constraints in 
some instances affect enforcement, environmental policy implementation is generally strong in 
Bhutan.   
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
8. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Christian Eigen-Zucchi 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4960 
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: ceigenzucchi@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
7
