Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2917 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Grant 2 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (35%);General industry and 
trade sector (25%);Secondary education (15%);Health 
(15%);General finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P104931 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 27, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 22, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 21, 2007 
A.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
1.  Bhutan is in the midst of a period of extraordinary change 
–
regarding governance, social 
development, and the economy.  Governance arrangements are undergoing substantial but 
deliberate and carefully planned change.  Consultations are underway on a new Constitution to be 
finalized shortly, that will usher in a democratic, Constitutional monarchy (the Constitution can 
be viewed at www.constitution.bt.gov).  The Constitution is to be ratified at a special assembly in 
2007 and the first direct elections under the new Constitution are anticipated sometime in 2008.  
The King had indicated his intention to abdicate in favor of the crown prince at that time, but he 
abdicated at the end of 2006, citing his wish to give the crown prince more time to gain 
experience ahead of the deepening of the democratization process.  He had been ruling Bhutan for 
33 years, though he had given up absolute power in 1998.  The Constitution seeks to promote 
good governance, emphasizing transparency, accountability, efficiency and professionalism.  
Three independent Constitutional bodies were established in 2006, which are a central part of the 
governance reform process.  These are the Office of the Auditor General, the Anti-Corruption 
Commission, and the Election Commission, whose heads are independent of the executive and 
report directly to the National Assembly.   
2. 
Social indicators continue to show improvement, and Bhutan is on-track to meeting most of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), a remarkable achievement.  Two MDGs have already 
been met: improving access to safe water and reducing the number of underweight children 
under-five years of age.  The RGoB continues to spend heavily on the provision of public 
services like health and education, especially in remote areas.  Available information on poverty 
suggests that it is falling, with a head count ratio of 31.7 percent in the 2003 Bhutan Living 
Standards Survey (BLSS), in contrast with 36.3 percent in the 2000 Household Income and 
Expenditure Survey.  The findings of these surveys are not fully comparable, however, and the 
RGoB plans to launch another BLSS in 2007.  Monitoring and evaluation remains challenging, as 
significant data gaps and uncertainties are still being addressed.  Most notably, the first census 
carried out in mid 2005 showed that the population was 672,425, significantly below what had 
previously been reported, especially compared to the estimates of the UN agencies and the World 
Bank.  This will have a major impact on the calculation of various indicators.  The RGoB remains 
committed to strengthening its systems for monitoring and evaluation. 
3. 
After almost a decade of construction, and the expenditure of the equivalent of more than 120 
percent of GDP, the massive Tala hydropower project was commissioned in July 2006, and is 
expected to be operating at full capacity by the summer of 2007 (generation is limited in the 
winter due to lower water flow).  The dramatic economic impetus from Tala will be spread across 
Page  2
this fiscal year and next, with GDP growth expected to accelerate to almost 17 percent in 2006/7 
and 10 percent in 2007/08, while domestic revenues are projected to rise by 36 percent and 34 
percent in the same years.    Hydropower remains the key driver of the Bhutanese economy.  The 
start of large debt service payments on the debt portion of Tala and the phasing out of the 
program grant from India, however, mean that the expansion of the resource envelope will be 
partially offset, and the RGoB will need to manage expectations at a level commensurate with 
resource availability, as well as ensuring the effectiveness of public spending.  Bhutan also faces 
important questions of whether, how, and how fast to develop other hydropower resources.  Other 
sectors, such as tourism and agribusiness, also are growing rapidly, and the RGoB aims to create 
an environment conducive to private sector development in order to sustain growth, reduce 
poverty and generate adequate employment opportunities for growing cohorts of school leavers. 
4. 
The Ninth 5-year Plan, which was to cover the period 2002-2007, has been extended by a year to 
2008, with a view to having the start of the Tenth Plan coincide with the establishment of 
constitutional democracy.  There is also an initiative underway to reform the planning process, in 
order to align it more closely with the overall resource envelope coming from the Medium Term 
Fiscal Framework (MTFF).  The plans articulate strategies for achieving the goals set out in the 
Vision 2020 document, placing a heavy emphasis on poverty reduction and the achievement of 
the MDGs.  
5. The 
RGoB
’s deepening program of policy and institutional reforms is a key part of this strong 
development progress, and the RGoB is seeking a follow-on development policy grant (DPG2) 
from the World Bank to support its efforts.
1
In addition to maintaining momentum on its reform 
program, the delay in the commissioning of the Tala hydropower project, as well as other factors, 
mean that the resource envelope in the short run is not expanding as much as previously 
anticipated, and the proposed grant would provide US$12 million in budget support to help the 
RGoB sustain the expenditures needed during the current period to continue progressing towards 
its ambitious development goals.  The program is commensurate with the existing technical 
capacity and circumstances in the country, and the RGoB is committed to deepening the process.  
Continuing support from IDA will help further strengthen the reform program and build 
continuity during the upcoming political transition.  The envisaged support would selectively 
underpin key components of the RGoB’s reform agenda, and would be the second in a series of 
two operations programmed in the Country Assistance Strategy completed in 2005.   Further 
operations could be processed if both the RGoB and the Bank continue to find this an effective 
mode of supporting development in Bhutan.  
 
B. Proposed objective(s) 
 
6.  The development policy program supports the RGoB’s efforts to implement the policy and 
institutional changes that will contribute importantly to the achievement of better socioeconomic 
outcomes and poverty reduction.  Carrying forward the objectives of the first operation, the DPG2 
aims to help the RGoB: (a) enhance the delivery of public services by strengthening public 
budget and financial management, (b) create better income earning opportunities by improving 
the investment climate, facilitating greater labor market flexibility, and increasing foreign direct 
investment, (c) raise educational attainment, particularly in previously under served areas, by 
expanding access to high quality education services, and (d) reduce maternal mortality by 
increasing the number of births delivered in health facilities. 
1
Bhutan is an IDA only country and qualifies for 100 percent grants for the second year in FY07 because (i) the ratio of the present value 
of external debt to GDP exceeds the threshold value of 50 percent, and (ii) the ratio of the present value of external debt to exports is more 
than the threshold value of 200 percent.  B
hutan’s IDA allocation in FY07 and FY08 is about US$15.7 million in each year, but as small 
state with a population of less than 1.5 million, Bhutan can cumulatively frontload up to 80% of its overall IDA14 indicative allocation.  
The actual allocation for FY08 and whether Bhutan will again qualify for grants will depend on a number of factors, including country 
performance and the findings of a more complete debt sustainability analysis.   
Page  3
C. Preliminary description 
 
7. 
In order to help Bhutan meet these broad development goals, the programmed DPGs selectively 
support four components of the RGoB’s reform program: 
i. 
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework, strengthening 
fiscal policy, and bolstering financial management; 
ii. 
Enhancing the investment climate for private sector growth and employment 
generation; 
iii. 
Augmenting the quality of and access to education; and 
iv. 
Improving health care. 
8. 
As a part of the DPG1 preparation process, seven specific government actions were highlighted 
as indicative triggers for DPG2, which would need to be largely met before it could go forward: 
i. 
The MTFF is circulated as a part of the annual budget preparation process starting in 
2007-08, and annual budget numbers (expenditure, revenue, deficits and debt) are 
developed in accordance with MTFF target. This will also involve implementing a 
strengthened debt management system. 
ii. 
In-year budget reports and annual financial statements are prepared on a timely basis. 
iii.  The Labor and Employment Act is submitted to the National Assembly by July 2006. 
iv.  The business registration process is simplified, including the number of procedures, time 
taken and costs involved, by March 2007. 
v. 
In continuing to implement its improved access to schooling policy, the RGoB plans to 
establish an additional twenty Community Primary Schools (CPSs) by December 2007. 
vi.  The reformed EMIS is to be piloted, with a first version of the EMIS available for use, 
learning and capacity building by December 2007. 
vii. Prepare guidelines for the establishment of improved patient referral networks (for 
institutional deliveries), quality of care and measures to increase demand at the 
community level on the basis of lessons from the pilots.  June 2007. 
Overall, the RGoB has made good progress, and those that have not yet been met, appear feasible in the 
first half of 2007.  Further actions will be agreed as a part of the project preparation process, if the RGoB 
and the Bank wish to extend the development policy program.  
 
D. Environment Aspects 
 
9. 
Bhutan places a heavy emphasis on environmental preservation as a valued national heritage that 
contributes essentially to its distinctive notion of Gross National Happiness.  The diversity of its 
fauna and flora make it a major “biodiversity hot-spot,” and 60 percent of Bhutan’s land is to 
remain under forest cover indefinitely.  Several key sectors draw significant benefits from sound 
environmental management, including hydropower, which depends on adequate land use 
management to avoid siltation, and the tourism industry, which depends in large part on the 
pristine environment.  Despite Bhutan’s impressive environmental track record, there are some 
challenges, including guiding the urbanization and economic modernization process, as well as 
Page  4
ensuring adequate environmental management capacity.  The reform program being supported 
through the DPGs is not expected to have any negative impact on the environment.        
 
E. Tentative financing 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
12 
 Total 
12 
 
F. Contact point 
Contact: Christian Eigen-Zucchi 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4960 
Fax: 
(202)-522-0356
 
Email: 
ceigenzucchi@worldbank.org
