Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER  H306-BHU 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 22, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER  H306-BHU 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 22, 2007, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
BHUTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter-alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
 -
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to eight 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing 
the Program. 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE
 
III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. 
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of the Program, will be 
carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration is that event specified in Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Tashichhodzong 
 
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
890-201 
 
323154 
 
Thimphu, 
Bhutan 
     
 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423(MCI) 
or 
202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
By /s / Daw Penjo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By / s / Praful C. Patel 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has submitted the MTFF to the Council of Ministers, as part of the 
annual budget preparation process, said budget to feature entries for expenditure, 
revenue, deficits and debt developed in accordance with MTFF targets and to 
involve the implementation of a strengthened debt management system. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has submitted for audit by its Royal Audit Authority the 
Recipient’s annual financial statement for fiscal year 2005-2006, and has 
prepared an in-year budget report for the six month period ending 
 
December 31, 2006
.
3. 
The Recipient has issued a revised procurement manual regulating procurement 
undertaken by the Recipient’s agencies. 
4. 
The Recipient has enacted labor and employment legislation, whose content has 
been found satisfactory by the Association. 
5. 
The Recipient has taken all regulatory and other actions to simplify the business 
registration process for all businesses and small enterprises, including the number 
of procedures, time taken and costs involved. 
6. 
The Recipient has established twenty (20) new community primary schools in 
remote or underserved areas to increase enrollment at the primary level. 
7. 
The Recipient has commenced the process of reforming its education 
management information system by piloting the system through workshops for 
central and Dzongkhag-level users. 
8. 
The Recipient has piloted, at the basic health unit level, new initiatives to 
increase community awareness and health promotion interventions regarding 
antenatal and delivery care, and to strengthen community participation in this 
area, in two Dzongkhags (Trongsa and Mongar).  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.
 General. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B.
 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche. 
 
C
.
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
D.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Council of Ministers” means the Recipient’s council of ministers, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
2. 
"Dzongkhag" means a sub-national administrative District area within the 
Kingdom of Bhutan.  
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch  
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Medium Term Fiscal Framework” or “MTFF” means the Recipient’s Medium 
Term Fiscal Framework designed to strengthen, 
inter-alia
,
fiscal policy, 
including building closer links between sectoral goals and budgets, and fostering 
transparency, to ensure a sound macroeconomic framework. 
 
6. 
“National Assembly” means the Recipient’s National Assembly or any successor 
thereto. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 17, 2007, from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006), are as follows:  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
Page  10
-
9
-
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
wb77754 
M:\legsa\BHUTAN\2nd Development Policy Grant\Financing Agreement 
(signing).doc 
06/25/2007 12:45:00 PM
 
