FILE COPY
Report No. 151la-IN
Appraisal of the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India Limited India
June 22, 1977
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              =     Rs 9.00
Rs 1                      US$0.111
Rs 10 million        =     US$111,000
Rs 1.0 million             US$111 million
ABBREVIATIONS
CDFC    -    Commonwealth Development Finance Corporation
CGC     -    Capital Goods Committee
DEC     -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Wirtschaftliche
Zusammenarbeit (Entwicklungsgesellschaft)
DFC     -    Development Finance Companies
DRC     -    Domestic Resource Cost
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR     -    Financial Rate of Return
GIC     -    General Insurance Corporation  of India
GOI     -    Government of India
ICICI   -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India
IDBI    -    Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI    -    Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IIG     -    Inter-Institutional Group
1IM     -    Inter Institutional Meeting
IRCI    -    Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India
KfW     -    Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
KITCO   -    Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy
Organization
LIC     -    Life Insurance Corporation
MRTP    -    Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
NEITCO  -   iNorth Eastern Industrial and Technical Consultancy
Organization
NSIC    -    National Small Industries Corporation
RBI     -    Reserve Bank of India
SBI     -    State Bank of India
SFC     -    State Financial Corporation
SIA     -    Secretariat for Industrial Approvals
SIDC    -    State Industrial Development Corporation
SISI    -    Small Industries Service Institute
SSI     -    Small Scale Industry
SSIC    -    State Small Industries Corporation
SSIDC   -    State Small Industries Development Corporation
UTI     -    Unit Trust of India
FISCAL YEARS
GOI, SFCs               -  April 1 - March 31
ICICI                   -  January 1 - December 31
IDBI, IFCI, IRCI, RBI  -  July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................   i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ................1.......1
II. ENVIROMIENT   .                      ..
General   ........1............
Industrial Sector- Structure and
Past Performance .              .....                    2
The Environment for Industry.                              3
Industrial Policies Affecting the
Private Sector . ......                                  4
Industrial Finance .        . ............... . ...        6
Prospects...                                               8
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS.                                              9
Share Capital and Ownership           .9
Organization and Staff                 .9
Procedures and Standards .10
Operating Policies .11
Relations with Government and Business
Community ...12
IV.   RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS            ............................   12
Resource Mobilization            ...12
Resource Allocation                          ...14
Promotional Activity                    .                 14
Development Impact ..................             ...     16
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS ......                                           16
Quality of Portfolio       .     .........                16
Financial Position ..... . . ..                           18
This report is based on an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. E. Elejalde
and W. Schaefer in November/December, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorizaion.



-2-
Page No.
V         3PECTS .................... . ...............    20
GOI Policy on Import Licensing and
Foreign Exchange Allocation                         20
Business Forecast  . . .................... .    20
Resource Requirements   .          .21
Financial Projections .........................    22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ....... .............  ..... ............ .. .    23
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Institutional Finance for Industry in India
2.   Selected Borrowing and Lending Rates - FY73-August 30, 1976
3.   Distribution of Shareholding as of October 31, 1976
4.   Members of the Board of Directors as of October 31, 1976
5.   ICICI's Financing Strategy for 1977-79
6.   Main Terms and Conditions for Assistance as on October 31, 1976
7.   Resource Position as of September 30, 1976
8.   Details of Foreign Currency Borrowings Concluded up to
October 31, 1976
9.   Details of Rupee Borrowings Concluded up to October 31, 1976
10.   ICICI's Overall Operations
11.   ICICI's Export Study
12.   Outline of the Proposed Study of Selected Subsectors
of the Engineering Industry
13.   Economic Indicators for Projects Approved
14.   Trend in Arrears (1965 to September 1976)
15.   Classification of Arrears as of September 30, 1976
16.   Analysis of Equity Portfolio as of September 30, 1976
17.   Income Statements - 1971-75 and Jan.-Sept. 30, 1976
18.   Balance Sheets - 1975-75 and September 30, 1976
19.   Cash Flow Statements - 1971-75 and Jan.-Sept. 30, 1976
20.   Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements - 1976-80
21.   Projected Foreign and Domestic Currency Resource Position - 1976-80
22.   Projected Income Statements - 1976-80
23.   Projected Balance Sheets - 1976-80
24.   Projected Cash Flow Statements - 1975-80
25.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Organization Chart (as on June 30, 1976).
Map - IBRD 3873



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
was established in 1955 with the active participation of the IBRD, which has
continued to maintain close contact with ICICI, through the provision of
eleven loans amounting to $425 million. The most recent was a $100 million
loan in April 1975, of which $85 million had been credited and $37 million
disbursed by the end of April 1977.
ii.       Over the last 20 years, ICICI has developed into a well managed
institution with a successful record in industrial financing. The objectives
of the proposed loan of $80 million would be to continue to utilize ICICI as
an efficient channel for financing high priority industrial projects many of
which are export oriented and/or are located in backward areas. ICICI will
continue to undertake studies of specific industrial development problems,
which will be of direct assistance to ICICI in its operations.
iii.      ICICI is a major source of institutional finance for India's
industry. In 1976, ICICI accounted for about 72% of total foreign exchange
approvals by the country's industrial term lending institutions. IBRD
accounts for 85% of ICICI's foreign currency resources. ICICI has also
received foreign funds from other official sources such as the USAID, KfW and
the UK. Finally, ICICI has been making efforts to diversify its sources of
foreign exchange into commercial funds and has already raised $2 million
through a Swiss bond issue. In 1976, ICICI's foreign and rupee disbursements
accounted for 14% of total disbursements by industrial term lending institu-
tions and about 2.5% of total private industrial investment in India. ICICI's
rupee funds have been raised through Government borrowings, share issues,
internal cash generation, and more recently through a successful series of
large debenture issues.
iv.       ICICI's ownership structure is composed of public sector enterprises
(76%), foreign enterprises (14%) with the balance (10%) from the Indian private
sector. ICICI has continued to enjoy strong management and benefit from a
strong, well trained staff. Though ICICI maintains close contact with Govern-
ment on industrial policy matters, it retains its operational autonomy.
v.        ICICI's approvals fell slightly in 1975 to Rs 712 million compared
to Rs 723 million in 1974 due to reduced industrial demand in key subsectors.
However, during the first ten months of 1976, approvals were 18% higher (Rs
841 million) than in the twelve months of 1975. ICICI has emphasized the
modern non traditional industries such as chemicals and petrochemicals (21%),
metals and metal products (17%) and machinery manufacture (10%).



- ii -
vi.       ICICI's- developmental impact has been substantial.  ICICI's ex ante
economic rates of return (ERRs) calculated on its projects continue to be
satisfactory; e.g. weighted ERRs for the larger projects have been 22.6% in
1975 and 29.5% for the first half of 1976. ICICT has also increased its
lending to backward areas to 40% from 1974 to 1976 compared to 12% from 1955
to 1970, Further, the total exports of ICICI's clients increased by 56% from
$230 million in 1973/74 to $355 million in 1974/75, the latter representing
17% of India's total industrial exports. Similarly, the direct employment
impact has been satisfactory (fixed cost per job of $16,000 in 1975) consid-
ering the size of ICICI's clientele. Finally, ICICI has expanded its promo-
tional activities and provides training for many development banking staff
from both India and abroad, assists clients in the formulation of foreign
technical and financial collaboration agreements, and gives financial coun-
selling and underwriting assistance through its merchant banking unit.
vii.      In conjunction with the eleventh loan, ICICI undertook a study of
the export experience of its clients and the role of incentives, the first
draft of which was completed at the end of 1976. The study has already
provided valuable insights into the problems and prospects of export manufac-
turers and the impact of incentives. Similarly, ICICI intends to undertake two
additional studies as part of the proposed loan namely (a) review of existing
company data from the export study to test certain hypotheses concerning
"1penetration pricing" in export marketing and (b) a review of the problems
and prospects of selected subsectors of the engineering industry. Finally,
ICICI has completed a preliminary study for the creation of a specialized
institution to finance lower and middle income housing for which it is seeking
participation by IFC.
viii.     ICICI's financial position remains satisfactory, though arrears have
continued to increase in the past year, as total principal outstanding of loans
affected by arrears was about 18% of the outstanding loan portfolio compared
to 7% in 1973 due to power cuts, credit restrictions, and business recession.
The collection ratio was 85% in 1976 compared to 90% from 1971 to 1973. The
arrears position is expected to improve in 1977; ICICI is taking appropriate
measures to improve collection performance. Loan provisions amounted to Rs 27
million at the end of 1975, but will probably increase when the 1976 audit is
completed. ICICI's net profit as a percentage of average equity has remained
at 11% over the past four years, a satisfactory level. ICICI's debt/ equity
ratio (Bank definition) was 8.6:1 as of September 30, 1976, or below the
contractual limit of 9:1.
ix.       While the prospects for improved industrial growth appear good,
the level of ICICI's future operations has been forecast with caution due
to the slackness in demand in certain manufacturing subsectors as well as
the possibility that GOI may allocate more free foreign exchange funds to
industrial capital goods imports thereby reducing the potential demand on
ICICI should some firms prefer to borrow rupees and buy foreign exchange
to avoid carrying the foreign exchange risk. On the basis of ICICI's present
resource position and of its own and the private industrial sector's foreign
resource requirements for the two year period beginning September 1977, a



- iii -
twelfth loan of $80 million is recommended which would account for about 60%
of ICICI's foreign currency commitments during this period. ICICI also ex-
pects to obtain a $17 million from the Kuwait Investment Company in 1977 which,
due to its short lump sum maturity of 5 years, should be blended with Bank
funds. As a consequence, at a maximum, repayments to the Bank of $17 million
would be spread over years 6-17 rather than years 4-5. Thus, the loan would
be made on a flexible amortization schedule including 3 years grace normally,
and up to 5 years grace in selected cases. ICICI would relend the proceeds of
the loan at its normal foreign currency rate (presently 11% ordinary and 10%
for backward areas) thereby providing a spread of between 1.5-2.5% which is
adequate. The proposed free limit is $4 million the same as in the last four
Bank loans.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
was established in 1955 with IBRD assistance. Since then, it has received
eleven loans from IBRD totalling $425 million. The eleventh loan ($100
million) was approved in April 1975. By end April 1977, IBRD had credited
$85 million and disbursed $37 million, in line with the original schedule.
Previous loans were by then fully committed. Only $9 million remained un-
disbursed from the tenth loan ($70 million), which is ahead of schedule.
1.02      Over the last 20 years, ICICI has developed into a well managed
institution with a successful record in industrial financing. A joint
study undertaken in 1973 by ICICI and IBRD to evaluate ICICI's developmental
impact, which included ex-post analyses on a representative sample of its
projects in operation, confirmed that ICICI was allocating resources to
economically efficient projects. A performance audit by the Bank Group's
Operations Evaluation Department during 1975 for the sixth, seventh and
eighth loans also concluded that ICICI's achievements were satisfactory.
This report appraises ICICI for a $80 million twelfth loan. It focusses
on ICICI's overall performance since the eleventh loan was made. 1/
1.03      While ICICI is making efforts to diversify its sources of foreign
exchange, it still needs IBRD support. The objectives of the proposed loan
would be: (i) to continue to utilize ICICI as an efficient channel for
financing high priority industrial projects many of which are export oriented
and/or are located in backward areas; and (ii) to continue to encourage ICICI,
to undertake studies of specific industrial development problems, which will
be of direct assistance to ICICI in its operations.
II. ENVIRONMENT
General
2.01      A full assessment of India's present economic position is contained
in the Bank's latest Economic Report No. 1529-IN dated April 25, 1977.
2.02      To summarize the current situation:  India entered FY76 having
been through one of the most difficult periods since Independence. Progress
in dealing with long-term development problems had been limited by poor crops,
iJ   Appraisal Report No. 637a-IN of March 14, 1975.



-2-
dramatic shifts against India in the terms of trade, and inflation.  Adjust-
ments to ;:hese immediate difficulties thus became the principal preoccupa-
tion in economic management. However, with favorable monsoons and additional
foreign assistance, it now appears that India has successfully weathered the
problems of the recent past. Once again there is the basis for an upturn in
the growth rate of the economy.
2.03      Most important among the favorable factors has been a bumper har-
vest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production in FY76, estimated at around 117 million tons, exceeded the pre-
vious record of FY71 by 8%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also reached new
production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries. In FY77,
a good harvest is again expected of at least 110 million tons of foodgrains.
Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of infrastruc-
tural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent in the
past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production of
coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during FY76 and by a
further 15% in the first eight months of FY77.  Finally, the increased supply
of agricultural and industrial products and of services, together with the
demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974, put a virtual stop
to inflation. From April 1975 to March 1976, the Wholesale Price Index fell
by 8.1%o Although from April to September 1976 the Index rose by 11%, it was
still 5% lower in September 1976 than in September 1974.
2.04      On the balance of payments front, there have been a number of en-
couraging developments. Firstly, the rapid build-up of foodgrain stocks to
a level of 17 million tons by December 1976 provides a buffer against the
impact of a future crop failure on the balance of payments and has reduced
current import requirements. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world
trading conditions, export earnings rose by 9% in FY76, and seem likely to
rise by more than this in FY77. Thirdly, the value of petroleum imports was
stabilized in FY76 (although thete is likely to be a rise in FY77), and steel
imports have been progressively reduced in FY76 and FY77 as a result of
increased domestic production. Finally, increased production and lowered
world prices have reduced fertilizer import values quite sharply. As a result
of these factors, imports rose only 5% in value in FY76 and the trade deficit
fell by almost $100 million. Developments so far in FY77 suggest a more
dramatic improvement in the trade balance this year. Moreover, since net aid
rose 49% in FY76 and India received substantial inflows of private remittances
during the past one and a half years, reserves rose by almost $800 million in
FY76, and are continuing to rise at a comparable rate in FY77. These reserves
give India added flexibility in adjusting to a higher rate of growth in the
future.
Industrial Sector - Structure and Past Performance
2.05      India's industrial output has grown on average by only about 3.5%
per annum since 1965 and manufacturing presently accounts for 16% of NDP,



-3-
as opposed to 14% in FY61. 1/ Within the manufacturing sector, there have
been gradual changes in structure which reflect the priorities of the Gov-
ernment's industrial development strategy with consumer goods industries
now contributing less to value added. For example, the food processing and
textile industries' combined share has fallen from 43% in FY61 to 28% in
FY75. Over the same period, the share of "basic" industries, (defined to
include basic metals industries, chemicals and fertilizers), together with
the engineering industry, increased from roughly 40% of value added in manu-
facturing to somewhat more than 50%.
2.06      While some two-thirds of manufactured output is estimated to come
from registered plants, which are predominantly medium and large scale, the
more labor-intensive unregistered, mainly small scale, sector employs two-
thirds of the industrial labor force. The Government dominates mining and
power generation and, to an increasing extent, the "basic" industries within
the manufacturing sector. Nonetheless, according to the 1970 Annual Survey
of Industry, almost 80% of industrial value added originated in the private
sector, and within the manufacturing sector, the figure was 85%. Even allow-
ing for the recent nationalization of part of the textile industry, private
industry must still account for at least three-quarters of output from the
manufacturing sector. Within the private sector, food, paper, tobacco and
a number of other industries make important contributions, but textiles,
chemicals and engineering goods continue to be dominant.
2.07      In the last three years, industrial performance has improved sub-
stantially. In FY74, industry grew by a mere 1%, and in FY75 growth was
2.5%. With an improved supply position the industrial growth rate rose
to 5.5% in FY76. Production of key manufacturing inputs, like steel, coal,
and electric power improved dramatically in that year; capital goods produc-
tion, which had declined by 4% in FY75, also recovered to the level of FY74;
but the output of consumer goods slumped by 1.9%. In FY77, overall industrial
growth (defined to include electricity and mining) is expected to be about
10%. Selected data for the first nine months of the fiscal year show that
the growth in the output of capital goods over the corresponding period of
FY76 was 8.5%, while consumer goods production has increased by 15.8%. The
sustained buoyancy of intermediate goods producing industries is indicated by
the 22.3% increase in steel production and the 14.2% rise in electricity
generation. However, inventories of intermediate goods are high by historical
standards, which indicates a continued constraint on final demand.
The Environment for Industry
2.08      Over the last fifteen years, both supply and demand factors have
hindered industrial growth. Supply constraints have perhaps been more per-
sistent. Through much of this period prior claims on foreign exchange con-
strained the availability of essential intermediate inputs not manufactured
1/   If industry is more broadly defined to include the remainder of the
secondary sector - utilities and construction - then value added in
industry constitutes about 23% of NDP.



-4-
in India, and affected the supply of inputs, such as steel, at times when
domestic production was unable to match demand.  Equally the unpredictable
effect of the monsoon on the supply of agricultural raw materials, such as
cotton, has constrained industrial growth. Moreover, agricultural supply
bottlenecks have tended to coincide with power shortages, since hydro supply
is also dependent on the monsoon.
2.09      However, when these supply constraints have not been binding, de-
mand has usually been depressed. All of the four possible sources of growing
demand - import substitution, exports, the derived demand from the growth of
other major sectors and investment - have been weak. Thus, the principal
opportunities for import substitution were largely exhausted by the mid-1960s;
while exports have recently contributed to growth, they still constitute a
very small part of total sales; the relatively slow growth trend of agricul-
ture of little more than 2% has restricted demand for consumer goods; and,
finally, Government real investment has remained stagnant, although this has
changed recently (para 2.24).
Industrial Policies Affecting the Private Sector
2.10      General,  The Government has placed central emphasis on rapid in-
dustrialization and national self-sufficiency as the keys to development. At
the same time, the Government has sought to curb the concentration of economic
power through expanded public ownership, restrictions on the growth of "large
houses" and "dominant undertakings"; reservation of many products to the small-
scale sector as well as special assistance to it; and finally support for
development in backward regions. The aim of self-sufficiency has largely
manifested itself in the pursuit of import substitution as well as curbs on
foreign-owned firms and other forms of foreign involvement in industry.
2011      The main instruments of industrial policy have been central licen-
sing of investment and imports, physical allocation of "scarce" domestically
produced raw materials and controls on industrial prices. This system has
itself tended to conflict with other aims, especially that of curbing economic
concentration, since large firms are much better able to bear the overhead costs
of dealing with a centralized bureaucracy. Controls have also restricted the
ability of firms to respond to changed opportunities, especially in overseas
markets, and thus hampered exports. The extent of excess capacity indicates
that the planning, which is the basis of the industrial licensing system has
been far from successful. Finally, price controls appear to have had a harmful
effect on investment and modernization in such crucial industries as cotton
textiles, sugar, and cement.
2.12      In the last two years there have been a number of important develop-
ments in industrial policy. In the face of poor industrial performance and
much underutilized or inefficiently utilized capacity, GOI has been reconsi-
dering elements of its strategy. It recognized that existing capacity must
be utilized more efficiently; that public sector enterprises should meet more
commercially oriented criteria for output, price, and profitability; and that
there must be an increasing emphasis on exporting. It has taken a number of
measures to boost industrial growth, including liberalization of licensing
procedures, relaxation of import and other controls, fiscal incentives and
more emphasis on industrial modernization.



- 5 -
2.13      Liberalization of Licensing Procedures.  The process of simplifying
procedures for the issue of industrial and other licenses started in 1973 when
a time limit on the disposal of licensing applications was established. 1/
Subsequent changes towards liberalization of licensing have taken four major
forms. Firstly, diversification of production has been allowed in industrial
machinery, machine tools, electrical equipment, steel castings, and steel
forging industries within the overall licensed capacity of a particular under-
taking, in order to facilitate fuller utilization of installed capacity.
Secondly, 15 export-oriented engineering industries are now allowed to grow
automatically in a five-year period by 25% over their licensed capacity.
Thirdly, 21 selected industries in the medium-scale sector have been exempted
from licensing and "Large Houses" and foreign companies (as defined in the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, FERA, 1974 2/) have been permitted to expand
in 30 other industries subject to certain conditions. Finally, 29 selected
industries have been allowed to utilize their installed capacity fully. In
general, the obstacles posed by licensing procedures have been virtually
eliminated for all except the Large Houses and FERA companies, for which the
obstacles have been reduced.
2.14      Relocation of Controls and Fiscal Incentives.  Import controls have
been significantly liberalized and the procedures for obtaining export incen-
tives and necessary raw materials have been streamlined. Export duties have
been abolished on a number of commodities. Excise duties also have been re-
duced for 45 industries and the rate of income tax has been lowered. 3/ Fur-
ther, price controls have been lifted for many finished manufactures and price
increases permitted for cement, coal and coke, commercial vehicles and aluminum.
Distribution controls on industrial materials have been lifted for almost all
items. The Dividend Ordinance of 1974 was allowed to lapse in July 1976 thus
removing the restriction on payment of dividends.
2.15      Modernization.  GOI has announced a modernization program for the
textiles, cement, jute, sugar and engineering industries. The scheme will be
monitored by IDBI, although ICICI will take the lead in the engineering in-
dustry. GOI's disbursement targets are Rs 2,000 million per year for the next
three years of which the engineering sector would account for about 20%, al-
though it is unlikely that this level of disbursements can be achieved. The
modernization funds will be on-lent at 7.5%, compared with a normal lending
rate of 11%.
1/   The procedural changes then effected have had a marked impact in clearing
the backlog of cases and accelerating the process of issuing industrial
licenses/letters of intent and approvals of applications for capital goods
clearances and foreign collaboration.
2/   FERA was also amended during 1976 to make the maximum foreign ownership
allowed more flexible if the company was exporting at certain levels.
3/   The FY77 budget provided for a reduction in the marginal rate of income
tax from 77% to 66%. The basic exemption level was also raised. To
stimulate investment, the FY77 budget permitted companies an investment
allowance of 25% on the value of plant and machinery.



-6-
2.16      isodernization is, of course, an ongoing process which has been
taking place for some time - about 10% of ICICI's approvals over the last
two years have been for financing modernization, replacement and balancing
equipment. Therefore, the main change will be the additional incentive for
firms to modernize as a result of the availability of cheaper funds. How-
ever, the Government has not yet announced many of the details of these
programs nor, more importantly, of how the basic structural problems of
these industries are to be tackled.
2.17      The modernization fund will largely be used for financing local
equipment, and will, therefore, not affect the demand for the proposed loan.
The proceeds of the loan may be used in part to support the modernization
needs of ICICI's clients (although not on a subsidized basis) as has been
done in the past. As such, the loan will complement the Government's mod-
ernization fund. However, there are wider issues that need to be tackled
and, with this in mind, ICICI will undertake studies of selected engineering
subsectors which would include an analysis of their modernization require-
ments.
2.18      Conclusion.  These various changes mark a cumulatively significant
effort on the part of GOI to tackle the problems of India's private industry
within the context of the overall policy framework. However, major tasks do
remain, especially the generation of a satisfactory demand growth and increased
emphasis on efficiency in the use of resources. The improved export perform-
ance and increased Government expenditures on top of the higher agricultural
income from recent good harvests help explain the recent upturn in industrual
demand. To sustain it, the Government will have to continue efforts to en-
courage exports and private investment and, of greatest importance for the
immediate future to raise the level of public expenditure. Within such frame-
work, ICICI has an important role to play in providing funds for investment
and, through its project appraisal, in guiding resources in an efficient
direction.
Industrial Finance
2.19      Financial Institutions.  Annex 1 describes the institutional struc-
ture for industrial financing in India. The system is well developed and
there are sufficient institutions to cover the different needs both at the
State and at the all-India levels. During FY76, disbursements by the finan-
cial institutions (excluding commetcial banks) accounted for about 15% of
gross fixed capital formation in industry. The Industrial Development Bank
of India (IDBI), the apex institution for industrial financing in the country,
accounted for 30% of the institutions' disbursements, followed by all the
State Financial Corporations (SFCs) together (23%) and ICICI (14%). 1/ ICICI
1/   Total disbursements by all the institutions were Rs 4.3 billion.  IDBI
and the SFCs are associated with the World Bank Group through two lines
of credit where IDBI refinances the foreign exchange lending operations
of the SFCs at the state level in the medium- and small-scale industry.



-7-
accounts for about three quarters of the institutional financing in foreign
exchange. There is extensive joint financing among the financial institu-u
tions 1/ working at the all-India level and coordination is working well.
One problem with the financial system has been the lack of equity capital
for new entrepreneurs. In the medium- and large-scale sector, this is being
tackled through the institution of the joint sector where a private firm joins
with the State Government to implement a project. This "joint sector" is also
being used as a promotional tool by State Governments, as it offers the at-
tractiveness of combining private sector management with Government resources
and leverage in matters affecting licensing, availability of infrastructure
and raw materials, etc. 2/. For small-scale industries, a "special capital"
mechanism has been established to bridge the equity gap. 3/  Overall, w^Jhile
most of the State level institutions need strengthening, the financing system
is adequate.
2.20      Interest Rates.  The Central Bank rate was raised from 6% to 7% in
June 1973 and again to 9% in July 1974. The resources available to banks for
lending were curtailed and the cost to banks of its borrowings and deposits,
as well as the cost to borrowers of bank funds, was raised.  Further, ceilings
on credit expansion were imposed and commercial banks' liquidity ratios made
more stringent. Also, in July 1974, a tax of 7% on commercial bank interest
income was imposed, and is passed on to final borrowers. As shown in Annex 2,
the rate of interest on fixed deposits is now 8% (1-3 years), and the maximum
rate (for deposits of over 5 years) is 10%. Long-term lending rates by
financial institutions range from 9.5%-12%. The commercial banks' prime
lending rate is now 15%, though most banks charge more (up to 16.5% including
about 1% tax). ICICI's lending rates are in line with the country's rate
structure (para 3.11).
2.21      Capital Market.  The capital market has been weak during the past
few years. Total capital 4/ raised fell from Rs 902 million in FY73 to Rs 703
million in FY74, and to Rs 613 million in FY75 although it increased to Rs 939
million in FY76. The decline was mainly in the issue of debentures due to
the weak secondary markets; the capital raised as ordinary and preference
shares (inclusive of rights issues) actually increased from Rs 569 million
1/   About half of ICICI's financing (by amount) during 1974 and 1975 was
joint financed either with IDBI and the Industrial Finance Corporation
of India (IFCI), or both.
2/   IBRD is considering a loan for financing this type of project through
IDBI which would include technical assistance for project identification
and preparation at the State level. ICICI also finances the joint
sector (para 4.08).
3/   Refer to the appraisal report for the IDBI/SFCs II project (No. 1158-IN,
of May 6, 1976; para 4.03).
4/   Including bonds but excluding bonus issues,



- 8 -
in FY73 to Rs 687 million in FY74, although it declined to Rs 423 million in
FY75 and again increased to Rs 812 nkillion in FY76. RBI's price index for
ordinary shares increased from 103.1 at the end of FY73 to 125.5 at the end
of FY74, but declined to 99.4 at the end of FY75 as a result of legislative
restrictions on the distribution of dividends. The index rose to 102.4 at
the end of FY76 and to 106.8 by August 1976 after the dividend restrictions
were lifted (para 2.14). However, the lapsing of the Dividend Restrictions
Ordinance did not have a substantial impact on the market because the high
interest rates make deposits with commercial banks quite attractive. Data
on capital issues for the first half of FY77 also reflect the slump in the
stock market. The total capital raised between April to September 1976 was
Rs 516 million compared with Rs 650 million in the corresponding period in
1975.
2.22      The limited available data on underwriting reveals that in FY75, 90%
of the total amount of equity issued to the public was underwritten; in FY74
the corresponding figure was 97%. In FY75, underwriters, as part of their
obligation, had to take up equity shares for Rs 31 million compared with Rs 39
million in FY74. During the early 1970s, brokers were active underwriters.
Subsequently, with the slackening of activity in the capital market, brokers
lost interest in this activity and the bulk of the underwriting is now being
done by the financial institutions. The stock market should improve gradually
as the impact of the recent incentives by GOI (para 2.14) begins to be felt.
Prospects
2.23      After the improved economic performance in FY76, India started
FY77 with foreign exchange reserves equal to more than 4 months' imports,
improved foodstocks, a growing export performance, and a substantially
better supply of energy and other inputs. These improvements do not rule out
the reappearance of supply shortages in the future as general prospects de-
pend on uncontrollable factors such as the behavior of the monsoon, the per-
formance of foreign economies, etc. Thus, the opportunities for growth are
much better. The need remains for GOI to boost industrial exports, to con-
tinue liberalizing imports, and to increase public investment because of its
direct relationship to growth and because of the underutilization of capacity
in the capital goods industries. Apart from the steps that GOI has taken to
boost the investment climate, its budget for FY77 provides for a substantial
increase in investments and plan expenditures. 1/ Further, domestic savings
as a percentage of national income, which were around 13% during FY73-FY75,
increased to 14.5% in FY76. All in all it is likely that over the next few
years, India will be able to achieve real GDP growth of 4%-6% and export
growth of more than 7%.
1/   The overall Plan outlay (including states) for FY77 has been increased
by about Rs 19 billion or 32% on top of an increase of 25% in FY76.



-9-
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Share Capital and Ownership
3.01      ICICI's original paid-up capital was Rs 50 million and it has been
gradually increased to Rs 150 million at present. Annex 3 shows ICICI's
principal shareholders as of October 31, 1976. With the latest capital inflow
of Rs 25 million in 1975, the Indian public sector shareholding increased to
76%, compared with 71% at the end of 1974. 1/ Foreign shareholding decreased
from 18% to 14% and the share of Indian private investors, from 11% to 10%.
After an amendment to the Indian Company Act in February 1975, ICICI is now
considered a Government Company (its direct and indirect public sector share-
holding is more than 50%). Except for a minor change in the procedure for
selecting auditors (para 5.09), this has not had any impact on ICICI's opera-
tions.
Organization and Staff
3.02      Board of Directors.  ICICI's Board is competent and experienced.
Of the 16 members, 4 have been appointed since 1975. The members represent
leading industrial groups (4), foreign shareholders (2), ICICI (3), public
financial institutions (3), GOI (2) and state level institutions (2) (Annex 4).
Mr. H.T. Parekh continues to be ICICI's Board Chairman. The Board meets once
a month, with good attendance, and decides on all project proposals above Rs I
million. 2/ It takes a keen interest in ICICI's affairs and is kept well
informed.
3.03      Management.  ICICI's management has not changed much over the last
two years and remains effective. Mr. Parekh, formerly Executive Chairman, has
now delegated all executive power to the Managing Director although he con-
tinues to be the Chairman of the Board. Mr. S.S. Mehta remains Managing
Director and has responsibility for all operational aspects of ICICI. ICICI's
middle management is also capable and experienced. The management style is
flexible and informal.
3.04      Staff.  As of June 30, 1976, ICICI's staff numbered 454 of whom
187 were professionals, compared to 154 professionals as of June 1974. Most
of the new staff were assigned to support departments, such as accounts, legal,
personnel and administration. The staff in the Projects Department, Projects
Promotion Department, and Regional Offices also increased as envisioned ear-
lier but they remain understaffed due to recent resignations/transfers in
particular the Project Promotion Department and the Regional Offices.  ICICI's
1/   As in previous issues, a number of foreign shareholders either did not
participate or sold their shares entirely.
2/   Smaller loans are decided by a committee headed by the Managing Director
(up to a limit of Rs 10 million a month). Equity and debenture sales by
ICICI are decided upon by an Investment Committee headed by the Chairman.



10 -
recrui;rev  program for the first half of 1977 should fill these gaps. l/
For undt -A-ing the modernization program (paras 2.15-2.17).  ICICI intends to
expand its staff gradually as necessary taking into account ICICI's absorptive
capacity and the need to maintain the high quality of its "normal" operations.
3.05      The quality of ICICI's staff remains high and its personnel and
training policies continue to be sound. Staff morale is good and turnover
low. Over 60% of the professionals have worked for ICICI for more than 5
years.
3.06      Organization.  ICICI's organizational structure (see attached chart)
is sound. The Managing Director is the top executive assisted by the General
Manager who concentrates on personnel, follow-up, accounts, legal and resource
mobilization, whereas the Deputy General Manager concentrates on project
evaluation and promotion, administration and the Regional Offices. Two new
operational units were established in 1976: an internal audit cell and a
special operations cell. Apart from dealing with problem projects, the latter
is also responsible for the sales from ICICI's investment portfolio under the
guidance of the Investment Committee of the Board. Standard follow-up work
has also been reorganized (para 3.08). The role of the Regional Offices has
become more important, particularly in follow-up, legal work, appraisals of
loans below Rs I million, and "routine" project promotion. Moreover, a new
Regional Office was recently established in Delhi. 2/ ICICI has employed
management consultants to help improve present data processing techniques
and to computerize the foreign exchange repayment schedules and other parts
of its accounts. The new system should become operational by mid-1977.
Procedures and Standards
3.07      Appraisal.  ICICI's appraisal standards continue to be of high
quality. Appraisal reports remain precise and incisive. The analysis of
technical, financial and market aspects is thorough and the economic analysis
is adequate.
3.08      Follow-Up.  ICICI's follow-up activities have been reorganized re-
cently. Apart from the creation of a separate department in charge of problem
projects, the Follow-up Department has reorganized its activities into four
cells, i.e., implementation, rehabilitation, normal follow-up, and arrears.
Further, the reporting responsibilities for follow-up between Regional Offices
and headquarters have been defined more clearly. Coordination between ap-
praisal and follow-up work remains good through weekly meetings to discuss
specific projects under follow-up. The clients submit detailed quarterly
1/   ICICI intends to recruit four more professionals for the Project Depart-
ment, two more for the Promotion Department, two more for the Economics
Department and one for each of the three Regional Offices during the
first half of 1977.
2/   ICICI has Regional Offices also in Calcutta and Madras.  Over the past
two years the professional staff increased by 2 on a net basis in the
Calcutta Office, by 1 net in the Madras Office, and by 6 net in the
newly-created Delhi Office.



- 11 -
progress reports which ICICI regularly reviews. Those companies which show
potential problems and those already on the problem list, are visited by
ICICI's staff at least once a year. ICICI also reserves the right to appoint
a director on the borrowers' board and has done so in 79 cases.
3.09      Procurement and Disbursement.  ICICI insists upon competitive quota-
tions from three or more reputed manufacturers/suppliers. The price and the
suitability of the equipment proposed to be purchased is subject to a careful
check by the staff, increasingly supplemented by comparisons on the basis of
experience with similar projects. ICICI's procurement procedures are appro-
priate given the nature of its business. Disbursement procedures also remain
satisfactory. Since November 1975, ICICI has opened its owfn letters of credit
in order to provide speedier service to its clients.
Operating Policies
3.10      General.  While ICICI has no formal policy statementD, its Memorandum
of Association, complemented by Board resolutions adopted from time to times
and Government guidelines, provide satisfactory guidelines for ICICI0s activ-
ities, which are satisfactory. 1/ ICICI's Board of Directors has approved a
statement of financing strategy for the next two years (Annex 5) which shows
that it intends to continue to concentrate its investments in the following
six priority sectors: (a) export industries; (b) power and transport; (c)
agricultural inputs and outputs; (d) industries basic to industrial expansion;
(e) mass consumption goods; and (f) balancing and modernization projects.
About 80% of ICICI's lending by amount in 1975, and 88% in the first 10 months
of 1976 as well as 82% of ICICI's pipeline of projects is in these sectors.
3.11      Terms of Assistance.  Annex 6 shows ICICI's interest rates and other
charges as of October 1, 1976. ICICI's lending rates were last increased on
December 1975. For ordinary loans, local currency rates were increased from
10.25% to 11%, and foreign currency rates from 10.5% to 11%. 2/ For conces-
sionary loans (backward areas), local currency rates were increased from 805%
to 9.5%, and foreign currency rates from 9.5% to 10%. With inflation running
at a rate of 8% in FY77, ICICI is now lending at positive real rates of
interest of 1.3%-2.8%, and with long-term inflation expected at around 8%-9%,
its rates are expected to remain positive in real terms.
1/   For example, decisions on exposure in individual enterprises continue
to be made on the merits of each case. As of June 30, 1976 ICICI had
an exposure of more than 10% (amount of approvals net of cancellations
and repayments as percent of ICICI's equity) in 17 companies with the
largest exposure amounting to 31%, which is still acceptable, consider-
ing the quality of the companies. None of them is in financial dif-
ficulties and all have satisfactorily serviced their debts to ICICI
and others.
2/   ICICI also charges an additional interest rate of 1% to private limited
companies since it does not have the opportunity to enjoy equity parti-
cipation.



- 12 -
Relations with Government and Business Community
3.12      Relations between GOI and ICICI continue to be good.  ICICI's Re-
gional Office in Delhi keeps close contact with GOI officials and GOI has two
representatives on ICICI's Board. ICICI is represented in 7 GOI Committees/
Public Bodies concerned with industrial investment. ICICI enjoys full oper-
ating autonomy within the framework of GOI policies.
3.13      ICICI's relations with other financial institutions remain good.
Coordination between them is working well both at the all-India and State
level through Inter Institutional Meetings (IIMs) and Inter Institutional
Groups (IIGs) respectively (Annex 1, para 7 to 11). ICICI works closely
with its clients and provides them various forms of assistance in project
preparation and arrangement of technical and financial collaboration agree-
ments with foreign partners.
IV. RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS
Resource Mobilization
4.01      General.  As of September 30, 1976 ICICI's resources totalled Rs 5.1
billion, of which foreign exchange accounted for Rs 2.8 billion (55%). ICICI's
resource position is summarized in Annex 7.
4.02      Foreign Currency.  Most of ICICI's foreign currency resources
(Annex 8) have come from IBRD. Of total foreign exchange resources of $492
million as of October 31, 1976, eleven IBRD lines of credit account for $422
million (85%). Fifteen KfW lines of credit (latest in 1976) account for 10%
and six UK lines of credit (latest in 1975) for 3% of foreign currency re-
sources; the rest (1%) was provided by one USAID line of credit (1961) and one
Swiss bond issue (1973). The latter was the first commercial diversification
of ICICI's sources of foreign exchange. ICICI has meanwhile continued to make
attempts to mobilize new foreign commercial funds, and is finalizing negotia-
tions for a Kuwait Dinars 5 million ($17 million) loan from the Kuwait Invest-
ment Company in mid 1977, at about 8.75% and repayable in lump sum after five
years. It also has been negotiating a $5 million loan with a foreign commer-
cial bank. ICICI's plans for further diversification of its foreign exchange
sources are satisfactory (para 6.04).
4.03      Blending.  The Kuwaiti borrowing will be repayable in lump sum
after five years. Since most of ICICI's projects require longer maturities
(maximum 15 years), this presents an operational problem for ICICI. For spe-
cific subprojects financed from both IBRD and Kuwaiti funds, IBRD would allow
ICICI to allocate relatively more of the earlier maturities (years four and
five) for repayments to the Kuwait Investment Company. The size of the
proposed loan offers ICICI the opportunity to blend effectively. From past
experience, some 40% of an average ICICI subloan is repaid in the first five
years. Thus, to obtain a reflow of $17 million by the fifth year, ICICI would
only have to lend some $43 million (or $26 million in IBRD funds). Thus



- 13 -
the impact of the proposed blending operation on the repayment schedule by
ICICI to IBRD would be small. At the maximum, 1/ it would imply repayments to
IBRD of $17 million over years 6-17 rather than in years 4-5. The proposed
amortization schedule of 17 years, including 3 years grace normally and 5
years grace in selected cases, would be within present IBRD guidelines on loan
repayment terms for India.
4.04      Foreign Exchange Risk on 1977 Kuwaiti Dinar Loan.  ICICI would bor-
row the Kuwaiti Dinars in a lump sum and would convert them into US dollars
and invest the dollars until disbursment. At commitment (loan signature)
of these funds to subprojects, ICICI would pass on the exchange risk to sub-
borrowers by denominating the sub-loan in Kuwaiti Dinars at the exchange
rate which prevailed at the time when ICICI converted these funds into dol-
lars. ICICI expected to commit these funds in an average period of about
6 months, during which it would be taking some exchange risk. Since the
alternative to bearing the risk might be more costly in view of: (i) the high
cost of hedging (about 4%); and (ii) the past stable relationship between the
US dollar and the Kuwaiti Dinar coupled with the relatively short time ICICI
would be exposed in that currency (the exposure would reduce gradually over
the six month period) ICICI is prepared to accept the small exchange risk. 2/
4.05      Local Currency.  The bulk of ICICI's total local resources of Rs 1.6
billion as of September 30, 1976 was financed from ICICI's own bond issues
(40%). The rest was financed from GOI and IDBI loans (37%) and share capital
and reserves (23%) (Annex 9). Prior to 1975, ICICI had difficulties in rais-
ing rupee resources for its expanding rupee lending (para 4.07), because its
debentures did not have trustee security status. GOI has meanwhile granted
this status to ICICI debentures so that ICICI could issue rather large semi-
annual bond issues totaling Rs 303 million in 1976, and Rs 193 million in
1975 compared to Rs 55-80 million annual bond issues before. Though ICICI's
effort in helping develop the financial markets by floating these debentures
is laudable, little actual mobilization of primary savings is generated in
this process. ICICI, like other financial institutions is mostly tapping
resources which have already been mobilized by commercial banks and other
institutions (primarily insurance companies). This is, however, the result
of traditional investment habits and the lack of secondary markets for deben-
tures, which are major obstacles to attracting funds directly from the public.
Also, RBI controls all debenture issues by determining amounts, maturity and
rates of interest, thus limiting ICICI from making the yield on its debentures
more attractive.
4.06      Mobilization at Project Level.  ICICI's financing constitutes on
average about 20% of total project cost. That means that for every rupee
invested by ICICI an additional four rupees are invested from other sources.
1/   However, ICICI would actually select subprojects for blending on a case
by case basis giving preference to those requiring shorter maturities.
Thus, repayments to IBRD would be delayed in only few cases.
2/   ICICI took a similar exchange risk at the time of its Swiss bond issue
($2.1 million equivalent) in 1973.



14 -
Some 20% a. e~ financed by other financial institutions and the balance by the
promoters contribution and internal cash generation. ICICI also finances
projects jointly with foreign financial institutions, such as IFC, CDFC and
DEG, thus serving as catalyst for iavestment.
Resource Allocation
4.07      Overall Operations.  Characteristics of ICICI's operations and a
discussion of recent trends are in Annex 10. Reflecting the stagnating eco-
nomic conditions in 1975 and the economic recovery in 1976, ICICI's total net
approvals fell slightly in 1975 to Rs 712.3 million as compared to Rs 722.6
million in 1974, but picked up substantially in the first ten months of 1976
when approvals were 18% higher (Rs B41.3 million) than in the twelve months
of 1975. Commitments present a similar picture. They dropped slightly from
Rs 585.0 million in 1974 to Rs 546.3 million in 1975, but increased sharply
to Rs 745.8 million in the first ten months of 1976. Disbursements, which
show a time lag compared to approvals and commitments, fell from Rs 555.3
million in 1974 to Rs 545.8 million in 1975 although they are estimated to
reach Rs 655 million in 1976. ICICI's loan disbursements account for about
15% of those of all-India financial institutions and about 2.5% of total
private industrial investment in India.
4.08      As a result of improved availability of domestic capital goods, rupee
loan approvals increased as a percentage of total approvals from 24% in 1974
to 43% in the first ten months of 1976, as compared to 71% and 42% respectively
for foreign currency loans. The percent for guarantee, underwriting and direct
subscription approvals varied from 5% to 15%. ICICI has continued to emphasize
lending to the modern and non-traditional sectors such as chemicals/petrochem-
icals (21%), metals and metal products (17%) and machinery manufacture (10%).
Joint sector projects amounted for 13% from 1974 to 1976. Half of its loans
are to new clients and some 7% of its loans to new entrepreneurs. 39% of its
lending during 1975 and the first 10 months of 1976 was for projects in back-
ward areas. The financial performance of ICICI clients improved from 16%
return on total capital employed in 1973/74 to 18% in 1974/75.
Promotional Activity
4.09      ICICI's traditional promotional activity includes (i) training of
local development bank staff from SFCs and SIDCs; (ii) participation in in-
dustrial surveys conducted throughout India and assistance in implementation
of project ideas; (iii) coordination and cooperation with both State and All-
India institutions through Inter-Institutional Group meetings; 1/ and (iv)
financing the preparation of feasibility studies and supporting technical
consulting services (Annex 1, para 6). IDBI, as the apex financing institu-
tion in the country, usually takes the lead in the above activity, and ICICI's
promotional contribution is more significant in non-traditional activities.
1/   Annex 1, para 11 discusses the functions of the IIG.  ICICI has lead res-
ponsibility for initiating promotional activities through the IIGs in
Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.



- 15
4.10      ICICI's new promotional activity can be classified irnto:  (i) iden-
tification of projects that would fill gaps in the industrial sector; (ii)
support to the financial system; and (iii) preparation of sectoral/policy
studies. ICICI's project gap identification activity started in late 1973
with the creation of the Project Promotion Department. One of the project
ideas (an industrial estate for small-industry in West Bengal) has already
been financed and two others (sand beneficiation and sponge iron) are under
consideration. A fourth project (methyl chlorosilane) has met with dif-
ficulties in completing collaboration arrangements. Seven other projects
are under active preparation of identification. The performance of the Pro-
motion Department has been good but it needs to be allocated more staff (para
3.04).
4.11      ICICI's recent support to the financial system has been mainly by
its merchant banking activities which started in 1973. Through these activ-
ities, ICICI provides financial services and advice to companies for raising
capital (Annex 10, para 7). More recently, ICICI has prepared a feasiblity
study for the creation of a specialized institution to finance lower and
middle income housing. Its creation is under discussion with GOI. ICICI
expects to provide 5% of the initial Rs 100 million share cap4tal and is
seeking participation by IFC.
4.12      ICICI involvement in the preparation of sector/policy studies was
initiated under the eleventh IBRD loan, when ICICI undertook to prepare a
study on the problems and prospects of manufactured exports based on a sample
of its clients. The study, which is summarized in Annex 11, provides a con-
siderable amount of useful information and is unique in its attempt to analyze
issues related to exports at the firm level. ICICI intends to review existing
company data from the export study to test certain hypotheses for a penetra.
tion pricing study, in particular the determination of the factors responsible
for the observed increase over time in the ratio of export to domestic prices.
Knowledge of the underlying causes for low initial export prices might permit
improved understanding of the efficiency of different export marketing strat-
egies. This first stage of study would be completed by September 30, 1977.
Provided the first stage shows sufficient evidence that penetration pricing
exists, ICICI would agree with IBRD on an outline for the second stage of
this study, and would assess work to be done, including possibly an analysis
of prices and quality of product in third countries for comparison.
4.13      ICICI will also undertake a study on selected subsectors of the
engineering industry at the company level to analyze the factors affecting
investment demand in particular for modernization and replacement. The study
would, among others, focus on (i) demand prospects both in the domestic and
export markets; (ii) upgrading of technology; (iii) domestic subcontracting
arrangements to ancillaries; and (iv) the overall employment impact of alter-
native investment strategies. The study would initially concentrate on the
automobile industrial subsector, and a first draft questionnaire is scheduled
to be ready by July 15, 1977 and to be sent to IBRD for comments. A draft
report would be ready by March 1978. The content and timing of the study for
another subsector would be determined subsequently. An outline of the study
is in Annex 12.



- 16 -
Development Impact 1/
4.14      In 1975, ICICI calculated ex ante economic rates of return (ERR)
on on 30 projects 2/ (Annex 13) which ranged from 11.0% to 70.0%. The
weighted 3/ average economic rate of return was 22.6% while the weighted
average financial rate of return (FRR) was 14.8% which is satisfactory. Sim-
ilarly, for six months of 1976, ex ante ERR calculations on 17 projects ranged
from 9.0% to 40.0% with a weighted average ERR of 29.5% and FRR of 15.6%. The
average fixed investment per employee was $16,000 in the case of 108 projects
approved in 1975 which is satisfactory considering the fact that ICICI finances
the medium and large scale sector. Further, to promote regional development,
ICICI has increased its lending to backward areas from 12% of total approvals
(1955 to 1970) to around 40% (1974 to 1976). Finally, from FY74 to FY75, the
total exports of ICICI's clients increased by 56% from $230 million to $355
million, or from 15% to 17% of India's total industrial exports (Annex
12). 4/
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Quality of Portfolio
5.01      Loans.  Annex 14 shows the trend in ICICI's arrears for 1965 to
1976. As of September 30, 1976, ICICI's overdues of principal and interest
were Rs 98 million, (but dropped slightly to Rs 94 million as of December 31,
1976), compared with Rs 60 million as of December 1975, Rs 51 million as of
December 1974, and Rs 41 million as of December 1973. The total principal
outstanding of loans affected by arrears was Rs 455 million, or about 18% of
the outstanding loan portfolio, compared with 7% in 1973. The increase in
arrears was due mainly to the special problems faced by Indian industry since
1972; power cuts in 1973; credit restrictions in 1974; and in particular,
business recession in 1975. From past experience, it takes some time after
1/   ICICI's developmental impact which included ex post analysis on the proj-
ects it has financed was examined in a Special Study undertaken in 1973
jointly by the Bank and ICICI, the results of which were incorporated in
the appraisal report of the eleventh loan to ICICI (Report No. 637a-IN
dated March 14, 1975). One of the major conclusions of this study was
that ex post economic and financial rates of return have generally been
similar to those calculated ex ante.
2/   As agreed with IBRD under previous loans, ICICI calculates the ERR for
all new and expansion projects when its proposed assistance is more
than Rs 5 million and total capital cost is more than Rs 25 million.
3/   Weighted according to capital costs at market prices.
4/   This relates to 374 companies for which information was available.



- 17 -
the start of business revival for firms showing liquidity problems during a
recessionary phase to normalize operations. Thus, the arrears problem is not
likely to start improving substantially until around mid-1977.
5.02      Annex 15 shows the characteristics of ICICI's arrears as of
September 30, 1976. Compared with the position in 1974, two sub-sectors,
metals and metal products, and electrical equipment, account for a major
portion of the increase in arrears (40% and 33%, respectively). As a per-
centage of the total portfolio affected by arrears, they account for 19% and
18% respectively. The performance of both sub-sectors was considerably in-
fluenced by past developments including power cuts and recession (parti-
cularly the recession in the construction industry for metal products), and
it should improve gradually. Further, ICICI has proposed to GOI a reduction
in excise duties for some of the products and in the case of electricals,
(dry cells), a review of export incentives. Other subsectors which account for
a major portion of the increase in arrears such as chemicals/petro-chemicals
(15%), 1/ are also those that were particularly affected by recession and
increases in excise duties.
5.03      ICICI's arrears list now covers 120 companies (out of over 1,000),
of which some 30 are facing long-term management, marketing or environmental
problems. The rest comprise certain new companies passing through initial
teething difficulties, market entry, or others whose cash flows have been
affected in various degrees by recession. ICICI and its auditors have re-
viewed each project in ICICI's portfolio, and based on security considera-
tions as well as long-term viability, concluded that provisions are suffi-
cient to cover possible losses. 2/ Further, ICICI is now undertaking a major
effort to improve arrears. It has reorganized its normal follow-up work and
1/   Chemicals and petrochemicals account for 18% of the portfolio affected
by arrears.
2/   Provisions for loans (principal) amount to Rs 27 million or about 1% of
the outstanding loan portfolio in 1975. This compares favorably with
an actual write off of bad debts amounting to Rs 4 million over the
past five years. Only one of ICICI's clients is among the "sick units"
that have resorted to IRCI for assistance. Provisions are likely to
increase after the audit for the 1976 financial year is completed.
These reserves against doubtful debts provide for possible losses on
principal repayments; they are not passed through the revenue/expense
accounts but allocated directly in the balance sheets as reserves.
Prior to 1973, doubtful interest income was included in the revenue
accounts and a provision was made as an expense against their recovery.
For the 1973 to 1975 accounts this doubtful interest income is not
accrued as income, but added directly to current assets in the balance
sheets against a current liability account called "interest in suspense".
This "interest in suspense" procedure has been adopted to avoid payment
of tax on income that might not be realized (provisions are not deduc-
tible in India).



18 -
created a  .,-arate cell to concentrate on difficult projects (paras 3.06,
3.08), Inri idual accounts continue to be watched closely and loans are
rescheduledl, where appropriate. ICICI in many cases has assisted clients
in obtaining working capital finance, and has also taken up policy problems
with GOI. ICICI has also imposed changes in some projects, for example,
new management. 1/ From a discussion on the problems of some 40 of ICICI's
most difficult projects, it seems clear that ICICI is taking satisfactory
action. ICICI is in control of the situation and no major divergence from
its present approach is recommended.
5.04      Investments.  As of September 30, 1976 ICICI's equity portfolio
comprised common share investments of Rs 146.9 million in 250 companies and
preference shares of Rs 91.8 million in 67 companies.  Some 50% of the equity
portfolio was in companies operating profitably and paying dividends, 21%
in companies under construction or start-up and 29% in companies in difficul-
ties, of which about 2% was in some jeopardy (Annex 16). 2/ The average
market price of the common shares was 105% above book value, substantially
lower than the 132% on June 30, 1974, reflecting the trends in the stock
market (para 2.22). The average dividend yield was about 4.4% in 1976, al-
though taking into account also capital gains after tax the average yield
was 6.4% which is satisfactory. As of December 31, 1975, ICICI also held
debentures of Rs 150.3 million in 67 companies. In 1975, the average yield
on debentures was 7.7%. ICICI's investment portfolio continues to be sound,
and is well managed.
Financial Position
5.05      Profitability.  Annex 17 shows income statements from 1971 to
September 1976. Net profits after tax increased from Rs 25.0 million in 1973
to Rs 26.6 million in 1974, Rs 35.0 million in 1975 and are estimated at
Rs 35.2 million in 1976. The relatively sharp increase in 1975 was mainly
due to tax concessions, including the reversion of excess provisions for
income tax and surtax to income. 3/ ICICI's net profit as percent of average
equity stayed over the four years at about 11%, a satisfactory level. ICICI
increased dividend payments in 1975 to 11% as compared to 10% in the pre-
vious years, partly to show a good dividend record for its next capital issue
which is expected in 1977. Such dividends allowed for a satisfactory profit
1/   Only 2 cases were pending in the courts as of October 1976.  ICICI's
willful defaulters are very few.
2/   ICICI makes no specific provisions for its equity investments, but the
net capital gains realized from the sale of investments is earmarked
to a capital reserve fund which was Rs 38 million as of October 1976.
This is an adequate cushion.
3/   Profits before tax increased from Rs 51 million to Rs 52 million, Rs 56
million and Rs 65.3 million respectively.



- 19 -
plough-back of 53%. Administrative expenses remained under control at 0O5[-
0.6% of average total assets.  However, because the average cost of bor-ow--
ings increased faster than the return on loans (partly due also to increased
lending in backward areas at concessional rates), the spread on lending oper-
ations declined from 2.8% in 1973-74 to 2.5% in 1975-76. As a result, pzofit
after tax and provisions declined from 1.3% of an average total assets in
1973 to 1.1% in 19760  Profitability, although relatively lo0, 4is sti-il ade-
quate, and the declining trend is expected to be reversed by 1978 (para 6.07
footnote).
5.06      Capital Structure,  Annex 18 shows ICICI"s balance shees s as of
December 31, 1971-1975, and September 30, 19760 Total assets almost doubled
from Rs 1.8 billion in 1972 to Rs 3,0 billion in 1975 and Rs 3.4 billion in
1976, There was a particularly Large increase (30%) in 1975 mailn7y because
of a 40% increase in foreign currency loans outstanding. Thls, however, is
not due to particularly large disbursements, but rather, the result of a
different method of converting the foreign currencies in rupee equivalent. 1/
As of December 1975, net worth plus provisions constituted 1-% of the loan
and investment portfolio. Foreign currency loans accounted for 59% and rupee
loans for 30% of total assets while IBRD borrowings were 48% of ICICII's equity
and liabilities. The debt/equity ratio was 8.6:1 as of September 30, 1976,
below the 9:1 contractual limit, which will be maintained since ICICI is
already a highly leveraged company.
5.07      Liquidity.  Annex 19 shows ICICI's cash flow statements for 1971
through 1975 and the first nine months of 1976. ICICI's liquidity has re-
mained adequate with a debt service coverage at about 1,2:1 exceot for 1975
when it fell to 1.03:1 due to a lump sum repayment of a Rs 60 million bond.
It is estimated at 1.13:1 for 1976 (1,05:1 assuming pro-rata allocations on
bonds outstanding which have not yet fallen due).  This is the minimum accept-
able level. The debt service coverage should increase further as the arrears
situation begins to improve (para 6.11).
5.08      Market Quotation.  ICICI's net worth as of December 1975 Was Rs 277
million, so that the book value of each of its 1,5 million shares was Rs 185
compared to Rs 100 par value. From January to October 1976, the market price
ranged from Rs 95 to Rs 101 per share, or about 51% to 55% of the book value.
During this period only 5% of the shares were traded. At the closing price
of Rs 93 in December 1975, ICICI's dividend yield was 11.8% and the price/
earnings ratio was about 4.0:1. The relatively low share price reflects the
poor stock market conditions.
5.09      Audit.  Because ICICI is now considered a Government Company (para
3.01), GOI, on the advice of the Comptroller Auditor-General, can appoint the
auditors of ICICI. However, N.M. Raiji & Co. and Ray & Ray continued to audit
ICICI's accounts for 1975 which were presented without qualification0 For
1/   Before 1975, ICICI converted its foreign currency loans and borrowings
into rupees at the central exchange rate at the time of disbursement.
Now ICICI uses the current exchange rate, which results in substantially
larger loans and borrowings in rupee equivalent as most foreign curren-
cies had substantially appreciated against the rupee over the past years.



- 20 -
1976, a new auditor, Lodha Co., replaced Ray & Ray. GOI follows the practice
of appointing new auditors about every three years and for reasons of con-
tinuity N.M. Raiji & Co. continues as ICICI's auditor for the time being.
VI. PROSPECTS
GOI Policy on Import Licensing and Foreign Exchange Allocation
6.01      Recent dramatic improvements in India's foreign exchange position
should permit GOI to pursue an increasingly expansionary macro-economic
policy. If adopted, this would also increase the demand for private invest-
ment and lead to an increased demand for loans from the industrial financial
institutions. At the same time, GOI is likely to increase the allocation
of free foreign exchange for industrial purposes. In this situation, some
firms may prefer to use rupees, either their own or borrowed, and convert
them into foreign exchange loans. The foreign exchange financing require-
ments for ICICI over the next two years have been conservatively assessed
in recognition of some possible preference for rupee loans.
Business Forecast
6.02      Annex 20 shows the forecast of ICICI's approvals, commitments and
disbursements through 1980. Total approvals, which were about Rs 950 mil-
lion in 1976, are projected to increase annually by 10% in nominal terms to
Rs 1.4 billion by 1980. Total approvals would be equally divided between
foreign currency loans and rupee loans and investments. Thus, the trend
towards an increasing proportion of local currency financing 1/ is expected
to continue as the Indian capital goods industry develops further. Commit-
ments and disbursements of foreign currency loans would grow annually at 10%
and 12%, respectively, although for local currency the growth will be faster
as the backlog of uncommitted approvals is larger. 2/ ICICI's pipeline of
projects, particularly for foreign exchange financing, mainly includes in-
dustries of high priority. 3/ Further, ICICI's proven capability for
identifying and appraising economically viable projects is evidence that it
will continue to allocate IBRD funds efficiently under the new loan. Given
the improved economic conditions, it is likely that investment activity will
be at least maintained, and ICICI's projections have been prepared on that
basis.
1/   Local currency approvals accounted for 46% during 1974-1976.
2/   There was a large increase in rupee approvals during 1976.
3/   Refer to para 3 of Annex 5 (Strategy Statement).  It should be borne in
mind that the pipeline is only indicative of the projects to be financed
in the future, as most of the projects in it are yet to be appraised and
ICICI will undertake further project identification and promotion in the
course of the proposed loan.



- 21 -
6.03      The above forecasts do not take into account the impact of the
modernization program (paras 2.15-2.18) since at the time of negotiations
many details had not been worked out and the level of demand for the scheme
was not clear. The modernization scheme should not affect the forecast of
foreign currency operations since of the five industries covered, only
engineering would require some imported equipment, roughly estimated at
10% of disbursements for the sector. 1/ However, it may affect the projec-
tion of rupee operations in terms of amounts (these would probably increase)
and also in terms of the nature of the financing (some balancing and modern-
ization proposals which ICICI would have financed under its normal operations
will now come under the subsidized scheme). Regarding the impact of the mod-
ernization program on ICICI's financial position, as ICICI will be appraising
the projects to be financed and will have the power to accept or reject
proposals, it will only get involved with operations it considers viable.
Further, any additional funds required for the program will be provided by
GOI/IDBI so that ICICI's resource position will not be affected. However,
there may be an impact on ICICI's capital structure (para 6.10) and ICICI's
profitability (para 6.08).
Resource Requirements
6.04      Foreign.  The proposed loan would cover the gaps in ICICI's foreign
currency resource requirements between September 1977 (the time when the loan
would become effective) and September 1979. Annex 21 shows ICICI's projected
foreign currency resource position through 1980. From January 1977 through
September 1979 foreign currency commitments would be about $174 million.
Against this, ICICI had foreign currency resources available for commitment
of about $40 million on December 31, 1976 and expects to raise through
September 1979, some $30 million from traditional sources (about $4 million
per year from KfW and $6 million per year from UK). It expects to obtain
$17 million from the Kuwait Investment Company during 1977 and further com-
mercial borrowings of $5 million in 1978 (para 4.02). 2/ This leaves a gap
of about $82 million which forms the basis for the proposed $80 million IBRD
loan. It would account for about 60% of ICICI's foreign currency commitments
between September 1977 and September 1979. For 1979 and 1980, ICICI also plans
to obtain an additional $30 million from non-traditional sources.
6.05      The loan would be made to ICICI to meet the foreign cost of capital
goods and services of subprojects sponsored by productive enterprises. As
with other IBRD loans to development finance companies, eligible enterprises
would be broadly defined so as to include not only manufacturing, but also
1/   Or about $5 million assuming half of GOI's targets for the next 3 years
are achieved. Further, engineering units eligible for the program (those
over 15 years old) are mostly additional to ICICI's normal clientele in
this sector (the most modern firms). Moreover, it is not clear whether
imported equipment would be included under the subsidized scheme.
2/   This excludes the modernization programs as any funds required for this
purpose will be provided separately by GOI/IDBI.



- 22 -
no;- only manufLcturing, but also agro-iadustries, mining, and transportation.
The loan is expected to finance mainly private enterprises, although projects
in the public and joint sector would also be eligible. It is proposed that
the free limit be kept as in the past four loans, at $4 million (with no
aggregate).
6.06      Domestic.  Annex 21 shows ICICI's rupee resource position through
1980. 1/ From 1977 to 1980, disbursements for local currency loans and in-
vestments are expected to be Rs 2,015 million. The total rupee requirements,
Rs 2,308 million, would be funded by borrowings, mainly debenture issues
(57%), loan collections (25%), internal cash generation (5%), share capital
increases (4%), IDBI counterpart funds from the UK credits (4%), and sales
from portfolio (3%). The balance of 2% is expected to be financed from
ICICI's resources on hand from previous borrowings. ICICI should be able
to raise the required resources as it no longer faces problems placing its
debenture issues (para 4.05).
Financial Projections
6.07      Annex 22 shows projected income statements for 1976 to 1980.  Net
profit after tax and provisions should grow from Rs 30.2 million in 1976 to
Rs 50.7 million in 1980, or by about 12% per year. The return on average net
worth would remain at around 11% (due to share capital increases). Profit
after tax and provisions would stay at about 1% on average total assets which
is relatively low but still adequate. 2 Administrative expenses would rise
rather rapidly by about 18% annually in view of ICICI's increased promotional
activities, but should remain under control at 0.6%-0.7% of average total
assets. The projected annual dividend rate is 11% implying a satisfactory
payout ratio of about 45%.
6.08      At the margin, ICICI's lending spread now is 2% for foreign cur-
rency loans and about 3.5% for rupee loans. To prevent a further decline
in profitability IBRD and ICICI reached an understanding that ICICI would
review its lending rates periodically and adjust them if necessary taking into
account the need to maintain its profitability, inflationary conditions, and
other factors. On the basis of existing spreads for foreign and rupee loans
and assuming the modernization funds are lent with a spread of about 2% on the
average with half the modernization program being implemented, ICICI's average
spread at the margin would be 2.5% which is satisfactory.
1/   This excludes the modernization ptograms as any funds required for this
purpose will be provided separately by GOI/IDBI.
2/   The declining trend in ICICI's profitability (para 5.05) is expected to
be stopped around 1978 as the impact of the lending rate increases of
1974 and 1975 becomes felt. The average spread on lending operations
is expected to remain at around 2.5% over the projected period, which
is satisfactory.



- 23 -
6.09      Annex 23 shows projected balance sheets for 1976 to 1980.  Total
assets are forecasted to grow from Rs 3,447 million at the end of 1976 to
Rs 5,348 million in 1980, an annual growth rate of 11% per year. The loan
and investment portfolio would go up by about the same rate from Rs 3,029
million to Rs 4,807 million. Net worth plus provisions, should remain at
about 11% of the total portfolio. With its present program of share capital
increases (Rs 30 million per year), ICICI's contractual debt/equity ratio
would slowly fall from close to 9:1 at present to 8:1 in 1980, which is
satisfactory.
6.10      The modernization program could have a substantial impact on ICICI's
capital structure. Assuming half the modernization program is implemented,
the net increase in ICICI's disbursements would be Rs 200 million annually.
This would bring its contractual debt/equity ratio to almost 10:1 by 1978.
To solve this problem ICICI would have to either: (i) increase annually its
share capital by about Rs 30 million (in addition to the Rs 30 million already
planned) so as to bring the ratio back to an 8.5:1 level; or (ii) arrange to
manage its part of the modernization program on an agency basis, for a fee,
without incuring any liability. Either alternative would be acceptable
although (i) is the most likely to be implemented since GOI prefers it.
GOI has indicated that it would support ICICI in obtaining sufficient funds
for increasing its share capital.
6.11      Annex 24 shows projected cash flow statements through 1980.  Col-
lections are expected to improve gradually from 85% of amounts due in 1976,
to 90% for 1977-1980. 1/ This improvement seems attainable given past ex-
perience, 2/ the expected improvement in the economy, and the emphasis being
given to follow-up (para 5.03). On this basis, the debt service ratio would
be above 1.2:1 (1,1:1 assuming pro-ratio allocations on bonds outstanding not
yet fallen due) throughout the projected period which is satisfactory. Annex
25 shows the disbursement schedule for the proposed loan.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      The proposed $80 million loan would be relent initially by ICICI
at rates varying between 10.0% (backward areas) and 11% (ordinary). The
amortization schedule would be flexible with three years grace and 17 years
maturity, though in selected cases, 5 years grace would be permitted to
enable ICICI to blend Bank funds with the $17 million loan from the Kuwait
Investment Company. Every subproject involving ICICI financing of more than
$4 million, including outstanding commitment, would require IBRD approval.
This is the same free limit as in the last four IBRD loans. During negotia-
tions ICICI's strategy statement was discussed and agreed with IBRD.
1/   The balance would either be rescheduled or would remain in arrears.
2/   Collections over amounts fallen due during the year were 90% in 1971-73,
93% in 1974, 91% in 1975 and 85% in 1976.



- 24 -
7.02      During-negotiations, understandings were reached with ICICI on its
staffing plans for its normal operations, the blending operations with the
Kuwait funds, an outline for the future work on the export study and engi-
neering study, further plans to diversify its sources of foreign exchange,
periodic review of ICICI's lending rates to maintain its profitability and
a detailed plan for its share capital increases to maintain and improve its
debt/equity ratio.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMIT'ED
Institutional Finance for Industry in India
1.        Financial Institutions.  Industrial financing institutions can be
classified into those working at the all-India levels, and those at State
level. At the all-India level, IDBI, ICICI, IFCI, LIC and UTI 1/ are the
main sources of long-term finance. At the State level, the primary institu-
tions are the SIDCs, the SFCs, the SSICs, and the SSIDCs 2/. Also working at
the all-India level, but playing a more restricted role (para 2) are IRCI
and NSIC 3/. IDBI, as the apex institution for industrial financing in the
country, is responsible for coordinating the activities of these institu-
tions. It also provides finance to some, particularly, to SFCs, and more
recently, SIDCs, mainly through IDBI's refinance facilities (commercial banks
also avail of IDBI's refinance facilities). Appendix 1 shows the financial
assistance provided by these institutions over the period FY72-FY76 4/.
2.        The previous appraisal report on ICICI 5/ discusses in more detail
the role and characteristics of the above institutions. Briefly, term lend-
ing for all-India is the main responsibility of IDBI, ICICI, and IFCI,
although they also make equity investments and underwrite public issues.
Their total financial assistance approved up to March 31, 1976 was Rs 26
billion. Securities and capital market activities are the responsibility
of LIC an UTI. However, LIC has also become an important provider of rupee
loans. Total approvals by LIC and UTI up to March 31, 1976 were Rs 4.4 bil-
lion. IRCI was established to provide financial and managerial assistance
1/   Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), Industrial Finance Corpora-
tion of India (IFCI), Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC),
Unit Trust of India (UTI).
2/   State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs), State Financial Cor-
porations (SFCs), State Small Industries Corporations (SSICs), and
State Small Industries Development Corporations (SSIDCs). In some
States, the work of SIDCs is done by SIICs (State Industrial Investment
Corporations).
3/   Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India (IRCI), and National Small
Industries Corporation (NSIC).
4/   Excluding NSIC, SSICs and SSIDCs whose financial assistance is modest,
involving hire purchase finance.
5/   Number 637a-IN of March 14, 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
to `sick-indcs '.ies" in West Bengal but has started diversifying its opera-
tio-a  geographially.  Up to March 31, 1976 its total approvals were Rs 327.3
million. The only all-India financial institution not catering to the
medium-and large-scale sector is NSIC, whose financial assistance consists
of hire purchase financing amounting to Rs 862 million (in terms of value
of machinery) as of March 31, 1976.
3.        At the State level, medium- aAd large-scale industries are the
responsibility of SIDCs, which apart from promotional activities make loans
and equity investments (Rs 2.1 billion of approvals up to March 31, 1976).
A substantial proportion went to the joint and public sectors. SFCs, which
recently received a second line of credit from IDA (Report No. 1158-IN of
May 6, 1976), are mainly involved in fitancing the small-scale, and also the
medium-scale sector (Rs 7.5 billion of approvals for both up to March 31,
1976). While their role varies somewhat from state, SSICs are usually respon-
sible for the distribution and allocation of raw materials to small industries,
although some are also involved in modest amounts of hire purchase financing
as are the SSIDCs, although the main activity of the latter is the promotion
and management of industrial estates.
4.        Attachment 1 indicates that during FY76, approvals by financial
institutions were Rs 6.6 billion and disbursements, Rs 4.3 billion. Of the
total approvals, IDBI accounted for 39% (excluding its refinance of SFCs to
avoid double counting) followed by the SFCs (23%), and ICICI (12%). ICICI
provided about 72% of foreign exchange approvals, followed by the SFCs (20%),
and IFCI (8%). It is difficult to estimate accurately the contributions
of these institutions in relation to total industrial investment in India as
capital formation data are not reliable. On the basis of capital formation
estimates for 1975, their disbursements accounted for about 13% of fixed
capital formation in industry. Rough estimates based on a sample of ICICI
clients indicate that of the private sector's investments in fixed and cur-
rent assets during FY75, internal cash generation financed 36%, foreign in-
vestment and institutional finance 36%, bank borrowings for working capital
23%, and capital issues 5%.
5.        Commercial Banks.  Apart from providing short-term working capital
to the economy, commercial banks also provide term financing estimated at
10%-15% of their total outstandings 1/. Outstanding industrial term loans by
scheduled commercial banks were as of March 28, 1976, Rs 2.2 billion to small-
industries and Rs 3.2 billion (rough estimate) to medium and large industries.
Since the nationalization of 14 commercial banks in 1969, credit to the small-
scale sector has substantially increased. There is an extensive network of
bank branches in India totalling 21,200 in 1976 (8,300 in 1969), or one branch
for every 26,000 people.
1/   Commercial banks in India comprise the State Bank of India, 14 nationalized
banks, 450 other scheduled banks in India and 14 foreign banks. Deposits
by scheduled commercial banks were Rs 140 billion as of tIarch 28, 1976.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        Consultancy Organizations.  At the initiative of IDBI7 a number of
institutions have been created 1/, mainly to identify project ideas, prepare
project profiles and feasibility reports, as well as to look for and assist
entrepreneurs in implementing these projects. While not involved in financing,
these organizations are worth mentioning because of the contribution they can
make to assist financial institutions in project appraisal and implementation.
It is still too early to judge their promotional effectiveness. Hiowever, they
have already made an impact in assisting SFCs and commerical banks to complete
techno-economic evaluations of a number of their proposed projects. In addi-
tion, these organizations are expected to build a pool of technical expertise
which is so badly needed in the areas they serve.
7.        Coordination.  There is a substantial amount of joint financing,
particularly amongst the all-India term lending institutions0 About half
of ICICI's financing (by amount) during 1974 and 1975 was joint financed with
IDBI, IFCI or both 2/. The institutions started joint financing to avoid
undue exposure in large or risky projects or when underwriting arrangements
were required so as to avoid underwriting relatively large portions of a
certain issue. All-India financial institutions have their own Inter-insti-
tutional (IIM) meetings in order to coordinate their activities.
8.        The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) initiated the IIM
in 1965.  The Chief Executive of IDBI is the Chairman of this group which
also includes the Chief Executives of ICICI, the Industrial Finance Corpora-
tion of India (IFCI), the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), the
Union Trust of India (UTI) and, since April 1976, the General Insurance
Corporation of India (GIC). The meetings of the IIM discuss and decide on:
(a) policy matters including allocation of institutional finance between
various industrial sectors keeping in view national priorities; (b) the
contribution by each of the institutions to financing relatively large
projects (generally those requiring financial assistance of more than Rs 5
million; many of these projects are financed by at least two of the above
listed all-India financial institutions to reduce their individual exposure
particularly in underwriting); (c) waiver of exercise of the conversion
option 3/; (d) the promoters' contribution to the project cost; (e) business
plans for the participating institutions on the basis of a review of loan
applications pending and in the pipeline.
1/   The Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization (KITCO),
The North-Eastern Technical Consultancy Organization (NEITCO), and
the Bihar Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organization (BITCO)
were created between 1972-74. New technical consultancy agencies have
been set up by IDBI in Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa during
1976. IFCI is setting up similar institutions in Himachal Pradesh and
Rajasthan.
2/   LIC and/or UTI also participated in most of these cases.
3/   Each All-India financial institution has the option to convert 20%
of its rupee loans into share capital of the borrower.



ANNEX I
Page 4
9.        Senior Executive Meetings (SEMs) take place twice a month in between
the III meetings. In the first monthly meeting, senior executives of the
organizations discuss more detailed matters such as the: (a) stipulation of
conversion terms; (b) nomination of directors in the borrower's boards (c)
decision on the institution which would take the lead in appraisal and follow-
up; and (d) exercise of conversion options. The second SEM each month is
devoted to review project supervision, particularly problem projects.
1Oo       A lead bank system was established, by which one insti-
tution would take the "lead"' in appraisal and follow-up, although each
reserves the right to submit to its own toard a recommendation by its staff
for each project. The arrangement has been streamlined gradually and by now
application forms, reporting requirements, legal documentation for disburse-
ments, etc., have been standardized to avoid duplication of efforts and an
additional burden on the clients. The "lead" bank arrangement is working
reascnably well.
11.       Apart from the establishment of the lead bank system which helps
coordination among all-India institutions, better coordination at the State
levels being attempted through cross representation on Board of Directors
and through Inter-Institutional Group (IIG) meetings. IIG meetings comprise
representatives of all State level and all-India financial institutions,
including commercial banks. Where the states are small, one group covers
several contiguous states. These groups meet periodically and cover a range
of subjects including participation of the different institutions in project
financing; new project proposals and their relation to the state industrial
policy; the state investment program and the need for financial resources
and the availability of private entrepreneurs to participate in state pro-
moted projects.
12.       Evaluation.  In terms of availability of services, the financial
system in India is adequate. There is a tendency at the State level to create
new institutions as the need arises, rather than utilize the expertise already
available. However, this can be justified to a certain extent when taking
into account the diversified culture of the country and efforts are being made
to improve coordination (para 11). Many of the above institutions have been
suffering from resource constraints due to GOI's strict monetary policy, but
this was necessary, and should improve the lending environment in the long run.
A problem has been the lac;; of equity capital by medium and small entrepre-
neurs to start industries. In the case of medium and large industries, this
has been partly tackled through the institution of the joint sector, where a
private firm joins with the State Government to implement a project 1/. The
joint sector is also being used as a promotional tool by State Government, as
it offers the attractiveness of private sector management combined with
1/   The joint sector is defined as enterprises with 25% equity capital
provided by a private partner and 26% equity provided by the State
Government or its controlled corporations. The balance of equity
is placed with the general public.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
the benefits of the State Government's superior leverage in matters affecting
licensing, availability of inputs, etc. In addition, IDBI and IFCI are exper-
imenting with interest-free loans to medium-scale entrepreneurs towards their
contribution to the equity of projects, although the amounts are modest. For
small-scale industries, SFCs are also establishing a "special capital" mecha-
nism to solve this problem (refer to the appraisal report for the second
IDBI/SFCs project No. 1168-IN, para 4.03). Overall, while most of the State-
level institutions need strengthening, the financing system is adequate.



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Operations of Industrial Financing Institutions - FY72 to FY76
(Rs million)
Underwriting and
Foreign Currency Loans                           Rupee Loans                            Direct Subscription                                Total
1971-  1972-  1973-  1974-  1975-   1971-    1972-    2973-    1974-    1975-   1971-  1972-  1973-  1974-  1975-   1971-    1972-    1973-    1974-    1975-
72     73      74     75      76      72        73        74       75        76       72     73      74      75     76       72       73        74        75       76
Approvals
IDBI                   -      -       -      -       -      1,286-1    8701'  1,6381/  2,148-1  2,538-/ 133         55      82      90     73      1,419      925    1,720    2,238    2,610
IFCI                   28     43      43     35      50        237      373       345       222      429    22      41      31      35     46        287      457       419       292       525
ICICI                 225    290    347    413    452          120      134       198       160      204    52       70     67      56    129        397      494       611       629       786
IRCI                   -      -       -      -       -          66       61        72        76       53    -        -      -       -      -          66        61       72        76        53
SFCs                   -      -       44     86    123         634      778       977    1,326    1,429       7       9      9       6      3        641       787    1,031    1,418    1,555
57DCs                  _      -       -      -       -         154      181       230       213      280    l2    54        48    122      90        236       235       279      335       370
Sub-Total        253    333    434    534    625        2.507    2,397    3.460    4,145    4.933   286    229    237    309    341           3.046    2.959    4.132    4.988    5.898
UTI                    -       -      -       -      -         -         -        -         -         -     150      99     77      70      78       150        99        77        70       78
LIC                    -       -      -       -      -         141       116      171       212       305    90      85     88    226    334         231       201       259      438       640
Total            253    333    434    534    625        2.648    2.513    3.631    4.357    5.238    26    413    402    605    753           3427    3259         468    5.496        616
Disbursements
IDBI                   -      -       -      -       -         774      624    1,134    1,639    1,695    14         43     48      27     55        788       667    1,183    1,666    1,750
IFCI                   34     41      30     35      25        161      215       274       325       302     8      24     15      10      20       203       280       319       369      346
ICIci                 205    280    263    291    399           80       79       138       137       163    18      38     35      26     49        303       397       435       454      611
IRCI                   -      -       -      -       -          11       35        52        81        47    -       -      -       -       -         11        35        52        81       47
SFCs                   -              -      20      46        390      441       541       774       939     6       6      5       2       3       396       447       546       796      988       >
SIDCs                  _      -       -      -       -         107       127      161       198       218    36      39     45      69      46       144       166       206       267       264
Sub-Total        239    321    293    346    470        1 523    1.521    2.300    3.154    3.364    82    150    148    134    173           1845    1.992    2.741    3,533    4.006 2 
UTI                                                                                                          16      56      78     76      49         16        56       78        76        49       '
LIC                    -      -      -       -       -90                  42       107      438       228    44      98      94    103      47         53       140      201       541       275       -
Total            239    321    293    346    470        1.532    1.563    2.407    3.592    3 592   142    304    320    313    269           1 914    2188    3.020    4.250    4.330
1/  Comprising direct loans, refinance to banks and rediscounts;  refinance to SPCs is excluded.
Source: IDBI Annual Reports 1971/72, 1972/73, 1973/74, 1974/75, 1975/76.
February 22, 1977



ANNE 2
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Selected Borrowing and Lending Rates in India. FY73 to August 30. 1976
As of            As of
1972-73          1973-74          1974-75         Sept. 1975       Aug. 1976
Bank Ratel/                                            6                7                 9                -                9
Deposit Rates
Post Office Savings                                    4                4                 5                5                5
Fixed Deposits for One Year or Less
than Two Years with Large Banks2/                    6                6                 8                8                8
Rate on Bank Advances
Rate of Scheduled Banks,3                             9-12            10-12            12.5-15           12-18           14-16.5
Long-Term Lending Rates - Rupee Loans
IDBI                                                  8.5              9.0              10.25            10.25            11.00
IFCI                                                  9.0              9.5              11.25            11.25            12.00
ICICI-/                                               8.5              9.0              10.25            10.25            11.00
(9.5% for        (10.5 for                          (for both
foreign          foreign                           foreign
currency         currency                          and rupee
loans)           loans                             currency
loans
Central Government Securities
3% 1986  r lateri/                                    5.00             5.00              5.00             5.00             5.00
4%. 19SL6?                                            4.98             4.91              5.37             5.54             5.28
4% 19796/                                             4.84             4.89              5.30             5.45             5.22
5% 19826/                                             5.03             5.00              5.45             5.62             5.50
5-1/2% 19996/                                         5.62             5.63              5.17             6.31             6.22
5-3/4% 20036/                                          -               5.74              6.39             6.44             6.37
Bazaar Bill Rate Bombay//                            15.00            17.00             21.00            21.00            21.00
Private Securities
1. Debentures:
Redemption Yield                                9.40             8.86             9.48             10.53            13.14
Running Yield                                   7.46             7.98             8.07              8.31             8.44
2.  Preference Shares                                10.36            10.34            10.81             11.50            12.13
3.  Variable Dividend - Industrial Securities         6.998/           5.59             5.102/            4.87             6.06
6.14                              3.36
1/  Bank Rate raised to 7% in June 1973 and to 9% in July 1974.
2/  The highest rate for deposits over five years is now 10.00%.  Between April 1, 1974 and July 22, it was 87., prior to
April 1, 1974, it was 7.25%. The rate of 87 refers to deposits for 1-3 years.
/  The rates are those most commonly charged.  A ceiling of 16.5% was imposed on the lending rates of commercial banks
during this period.
4/  Normal lending rate.   In case of default, a penalty rate of 0.5% normally applies.
5/ Flat yield.
6/ Redemption yield.
7/  Rates at which bills of small traders are discounted by Shroffs - these are unofficial quotations.
8/  The figure above the line is the average for nine months (April to December 1972) and the below figure is the average
for three months (January to March 1973).
9/  Due to insignificant trading on account of the "Companies (Temporary Restriction Dividend) Ordinance, 1974", the yields
on ordinary shares for the month of July 1974 were not compiled. The figure above the line is the average for three
months (April to June 1974) and the below figure is the average for eight months (August 1974 to March 1975).
Source: Reserve Bank of India - Report on Currency and Finance, 1974-75 and RBI Bulletin - August 1976.
February 22, 1977



AUll 3
TiZ DDUSTRIAL CRSDIT AD 7mtV2NET   C01.ORPOU11 OF IIDID  LIMtnD
Distribution of Sbarabolding as of October 31. 1976
so. of        No. of
NDIA                             Sharaholdert    $beraa         Amunt       Percentage
Official Sector
Life Insurance Corporation
of India                                       319,761      31,976.100
New India Assurance Co. Ltd.                    165,977      16,597,700
Unit Trust of India                             153,308      15,330,800
Sank of India                                    89,346       8,934,600
General Insurance Corporation
of India                                        71,624       7,162,400
National Inursuance Co. Ltd.                     71,209       7,120.900
Punjab National bank                             63,150       6,315,000
BSnk of Bsarods                                  52,831       5,283,100
Dnited Bank of India                             31,030       3,103,000
Oriental Fire & Geral
Insurance Co. Ltd.                              29,049      2,904,900
United Co_ercial Bank                            24,500       2,450,000
Indian Overseas Bank                             20,689       2,068,900
United India Fire & General
Insurance Co. Ltd.                              18,499       1,849,900
Central Bsank of India                           10,693       1,069.300
9 Other Official Sector
shareholdars holding less
than 7,500 shares each                          13,005       1,300,500
23         1,134,671    113.467,100     75.64
Private Sector
Indo-Burma Petroleum Co. Ltd.                    19,992       1,999,200
Scindia Steam Navigation
Co. Ltd.                                        11,501       1,150,100
Clive Row Invest ent Holding
Co. Ltd.                                         9,497         949,700
Associated Cement Co. Ltd                          9,363        936,300
56 Other private sector abare-
holders holding les than
7,500 ahares etch                               45,505      4,550,500
1,911 Individual shareholders
holding less than 7,500
shsres each                                     53,320       5,332,000
1,971           149,178     14,917,800       9.95
1,994         1,283,849    128,384,900      85.59
7018108
The Chartered Bank                               37,500       3,750,000
6 Others holding leest than
7,500 shares each                               12,173       1,217,300
9            49,673      4,967,300    3.3,w
U.S.A.
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.                      18,750       1,875,000
Bank of Americs                                   18,700      1,870,000
Citibank N.A.                                    1,0           ,0.0
Olin Corporation                                              1,500,000
Aerica espress International
Banking Corporation                             10,000       1,000,200
Northwest International Sank                       7,499        749,900
7 Others holding less than
7,500 shares each                               15.726       1,572,600
13            98,177      9,817,700     6.54
Federal Republic of Gerranv
Deutsche Bank AG                                  22,500      2,250.000
Dresduer Bank AG                                  18,750      1,875,000
2       41,250      4,125,000     2.75
Jap-n
Bank of Tokyo Ltd.                                 7,500        750,000
The Mitsui Bank Ltd.                               7,500        750,000
The Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd.                 3,552         355,200
3       18,552      1.855,200     124
Sweden
Skandinaviska Enaskilda Bsanken          1        4,500         450,000     0.30
France
Banque Nationale de Paris                          3,999        399,900     0.27
Total number of Shares and
Shareholders                        2,023    1.500,000    150,000.000   100,00
Februgry 22, 1977



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIM1TED
Members of the Board of Directors
aS of October 31. 1976
Year of
Name                      Appointment      Age      Principal Present Position
Mr. H. T. Parekh*             1968          65      Chairman, ICICI
M4r. J. S. Baj*               1973          62      ChaLirman, Tamil Nadu Industrial
Investment Corporation
Vice Chairman, ICICI
Mr. Raghu Raj                 1976          59      Chairman and Managing Director,
Industrial Development Bank
of India
Mr. K. K. Birla*              1959          57     Managing Director,
Birla Brothers Pvt. Ltd.
Mr. D. P. Goeaka              1959          60      Chairman
Octavius Steel & Co. Ltd.
Mr. N. A. Palkhivala          1959          56      Advocate, Supreme Court of India
Chairman, Associated Cement
Co. Ltd.
Mr. L. J. Mulkern             1963          56      Senior Vice President
Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.,
Tokyo, Japan
Mr. N. M. Wagle*              1966          61      Chairman,
The State Industrial and
Investment Corporation of
Maharashtra Ltd.
Chairman, Paville Fashions
Pvt. Ltd.
Mr. M. V. Sohonie             1969          64      Company Director
Hr. R. V. Raman               1973          57      Secretary, Ministry of Industry
and Civil Supplies, Government
of India
Mr. M. Sen Sarma              1974          59      Chairman and Managing Director
United Bank of India
Mr. M. D. McWilliam           1975          43      General Manager
The Chartered Bank, London
Mr. M. V. Arunachalam         1975          48      Chairman,
T. I. Diamond Chain Ltd.
Mr. K. P. A. Menon            1976          49      Additional Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Department of Banking
Government of India
Mr. S. S. Mehta*              1973          58      Managing Director, ICICI
( Dr. Phirose B. Nedhora*       1974          49      Joint Managing Director, ICICI
Mr. J. M. Ahrens
(Alternate Director for
Mr. L. J. Mulkern)           1973          52      Regional Vice President
South Asia Regional Office
Bank of America,
N.T. & S.A., Bombay
Mr. N. H. Green
(Alternate Director
for Mr. M. D. McWilliam)   1975           47      Chief Manager in India
The Chartered Bank
* Members of the Board's Investment COMittee which decides
the disposition of ICICI's securities portfolio.
@ On deputation to the World Bank.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT QORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
ICICI's Financing Strategy
(Approved by ICICI's Board of Directors)
As a development banking institution, ICICI's financing policies
must continue to subserve national objectives in the industrial sphere.
The early years of ICICI coincided with a phase in the country's indus-
trialisation efforts diTected towards a diversification and a deepening
of its industrial structure. In this phase, the financial assistance
provided by ICICP largely performed the task of building up capacities.
in the non-traditional sector  f- the. undan industry;  The non-traditional
industries and the new industries are still major claimants of ICICI's
assistance, and its support to traditional industries, relatively small
in the past, has been of-critical value to several of the established
companies in this field which were undertaking balancing and product
improvement progwammes for strengtlkening their competitive capacity within
the country and in the export market.
2.        In the coming period, ICICI sees for itself a considerably larger
role in the financing of traditional industries as well as several of the
older enterprises established during the fifties and the early sixties whose
needs of modernisation are likely to receive increasingly, the attention
of the financial institutions. As part of this, ICICI, alongwith other
national financing institutions would also be assuming its share of
financing the modernisation of five industries, namely, Cotton Textiles, Jute
Textiles, Sugar, Paper and Engineering.
3.        For many years now ICICI's appraisals and evaluation procedures
for projects have given weightage to the socio-economic aspects. The economic
indicators for a large majority of ICICI financed projects have generally
been favourable. A rising proportion of ICICI's assistance in recent years
has gone to projects in the backward regions of the country and, presently,
nearly 40 per cent of ICICI's new financing is in such projects. Other
considerations which receive appropriate weightage in ICICI's financing are
the need to encourage new entrepreneurs in Indian industry, and export-
oriented projects.
4.        Industrywise, ICICI's financing priorities remain substantially
unchanged. Reproduced below is a list of six priority areas which will
receive attention from ICICI.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(i) export industries and supporting activities;
(ii) power and transport, including ancillaries connected
therewith;
(iii) agricultural inputs and outputs;
(iv) industries basic to industrial expansion and serving a
wide spectrum of uses wuch as caustic soda, soda ash,
alloy and special steels and machine tools;
(v) mass consumption goods which need to be available in
adequate quantity to contain inflation;
(vi) balancing and modernisation programmes contributing
to higher output and productivity both in new and in
old industries.
These six sectors as will be seen from the Appendix have
received more than 80 per cent of ICICI's sanctioned assistance during
1975 and 1976. While it is expected that the bulk of ICICI's assistance
in the coming period will flow to these six sectors, it is likely that
the proportion of assistance to individual sectors will undergo changes.
In line with the current expectations of substantially increased needs
connected with the modernisation of Indian industry, ICICI's assistance
to the last mentioned group of activities might expand markedly.



ANNEX 5
Appendix
ICICI Assistance During 1975 and 1976 to Industries
Covered by Six Priorities
(Rupees in Million)
1975                  1976
Total                   Total
assis-    % distri-    assist-   % distri-
tance      bution       ance        bution
1.   Export industries and
supporting activities
(including shipping)         345         39%          469         42%
2.   Coal, power, transport
(other than shipping                     -
including ancillaries)        73          8%          100          9%
3.   Agricultural inputs and
outputs                      16          2%           24          2%
4.   Selected basic industries
(caustic soda, alloy and
special steels, and
machine tools, etc.)           95        11%          139         12%
5.   Mass consumption goods        113        12%          125         11%
6.   Balancing and moderni-
sation programmes.           70          8%          135         12%
Total of the six groups       712        80%          992         88%
Gross sanctions to all
industries                  885        100%         1123        100%



ANNEX 6
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Main Terms and Conditions for Assistance
(As on October 1, 1976)
Standard    Concessional-/
A. Rates of Interest
i) Foreign currency loans          11.0% p.a.      10.0% p.a.
ii) Rupee loans                     11.0% p.a.       9.5% p.a.
iii) Additional interest
rate for loans to
private limited companies      1.0% p.a.      Exemption on
selective basis
B. Commitment Charge on FE loans           10% p.a.        1.0% p.a.
on RL loans         1.0% p.a,       0.5% p.a.
(Charged on undrawn portion of
loan, and starts from the date of
sanction for foreign currency
loans and 6 months after the
sanction or signing of the Heads
of Agreement, whichever is earlier,
for rupee loans)
C. Underwriting Commission
i) Shares                           2.5%           1.25%
ii) Debentures                       1.5%           0.75%
D. Grace Period                          Upto 3 years   Upto 5 years
E. Repayment Period                      Upto 12 years  Upto 20 years
1/ For assistance to projects in backward districts,
concessional terms are applicable for the first
Rs 20 million term loans comprising rupee and
foreign currency loans and Rs 10 million under-
writing, provided by the Central financing
instituti*ns.
Note: In certain cases, rupee lineBbf creditwere extended
at a rate higher by 1% over the normal rate.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 7
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IVRSTNENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Resource Position as of September 30. 1976
Re million
Reservea (sembei 30, 1g6)                                  201.2
Pour G"e1msat of Ka&.a LoSsi
Total                                         325.0
Les:  Regpents                                jt 3.     162.0
Losue and Grants from ovgmesft of India
out of UV Intereet Differentisal Fnd
(Net)                                                        11.4
Nine IDBI Loans
Total                                         253.9
Lees:  Repayments                              52       201 .0
Debentures                                                 62C .0
Total Resouroce                                           134$.6
Less: Loans and InvestmentsOutstanding       1051.9
Net Pixed Assets                         16.0   103e.9
Resources Available for Disbursement                       300.7
Less: Undisbursed Commitment                            1 24.6
Resouroes Available for Commitnent                          8' .1
Porei  eWrmen, Iaaouro.
Eleven IBED Lines of Credit
Total                                        S  435.0 m.
Less: Cancellations and Repayments           S  177<L.   2315.7
One AID Line of Credit
Total                                        S    5.0 n.
Less: Coeilationa azd Repayments             S    4.9          0.9
Fifteen EfW Lines of Credit
Total                                       DN  124.5 a.
ZeaE: Repayments                            DN 2L.2-m.    30'0.3
Sil U.K. Lines of Credit
Total                                            8.0 a.
Leas: Cancellations                          l    0.2 a.    142.1
First Swiss Bond IJsue                        SP    8.0 a.
L ej: Hanagement Pee & Underwriting
Commissiop                          SP    0           26.5
Total Resouroes                                               2785.5
Le_ss  Loean  Outstanding                                   1826.5
aeaouroes Available for Disbursement                           959.0
Leess TJndiaburaed Connitaant                                507.7
Resources Available for Conmaitnent                            451.3
Notes (1) Guarsntees have been ignored tOroughout.
(2) The amounts a.pproved but not committed are rupees:
Rs 532.7 zillion and foradgn ourrenogee: B 513.5 aillion.
e.br-" 22. 1977



ANNEX 8
THE INDUSTRiA. CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Details of Foreign Currency Borrowings Concluded
up to October 31, 1976
drawing
withoaut
Date of          Amount               Maturity      Rate of  Creditor's
Loan No.   _reeoent (Net of Canoellations)  (Orape Period)  lterest  Approval
IBRD
109     3/14/55    US$      9.9 million    14 yearo (5   4-5/8%          None
y ear s)
232     7/i5/59    US$      9.8  jillion    10Y           Variable).Y  S 100,000
(3)
269    10/28/60    US$    19.3 million    10                 -do-    S   500,000
312     2/28/62    US$    19.1 million    153               -do-         500,000
(3)
340      6/5/63    US5    26.9 millio.    14?'/              -do-    3 2,000,000
(2)
414     5/28/65    USS    47.2 million    15              5-y2%      3 2,000,000
(3)
515     9/19/67    US8    23.9 million    139/            Varitble   S 2,000,000
683      6/3/70    11S2    38.8 million    123/              7%      8 4,000,000
(1)
789    10/27/71    US1    58.0 million    12i/            7-Y4S,     8 4,000,000
902      6/8/73    DS8    69.4 million    I53/            7-Y4%      8 4,000,000
(1)
1097      4/2/75    USS  100.0 million    t8"/             8-Y2q      S 4,000,000
US8   422.3 million
D119 155   3/23/61    US$     4,5 million    16               5%       $   250,000
(2)
KrM
62 65 144 4/26/63    DR      20.0 million    15             5-y2%     DX   500,000
(2)
63 65 522 7/29/64    DM       5.0 million    15             5-y2%     D11 2,000,000
(2)5-2                   i200,0
64 65 249 11k3/64    D.11    10.0 million    (2             5-Y2%     DII 2,000,000
(2)
64 65 322  6/8/65    DM       5.0 million    25             5-Y2%     DM 2,000,000
(7)
66 65 152  3/23/66   DM   20.0 million          25          5-Y2%    DM  2,000,000
(7)
67 65 135  11/3/67   DM    5.0 million          25          5-Y2%    DM  2,000,000
(7)
67 65 168  6/11/68   DM    7.5 million           25         5-Y2%    DM  2,000,000
(7)
68 65 117  4/11/69   DM    5.0 million          25          5-Y256   DM  2,000,000
(7)
69 65 156   6/2/70   DMf   5.0 million           30         5-Y2%    DM  2,000,000
(8)
70 65 105  6/22/71   DM   10.0 million          (8          5-Y2%j    DM  2,000,000
72 65 143  9/30/72   DM    5.0 million          30            6%     D1M  2,000,000
(8)
73 65 083  6/15/73   DM    5.0 n.llion           30           6%  D5   2,6000,000
(1 0)012,0,0
73 65 158  3/31/74   DM    5.0 million          30            6%     DM  2,000,000
(10)
74 65 719   6/6/75   Dl,   7.0 million          30          7-Y2%    DMH  2,000,000
(10)
75 65 575  6/25/76   DII  10.0 million          30          7-Y2%    Dl 2,000,000
u.r., ~  ~      DI Daeof 1 24.3 million   (10)
U.1.0.     Date of  M       Z
I,en No   Ae2ptoanne         Amount
C        7/18/69   z     0.9 million          -250,000
II        5/26/70   S      0.9 million         _                          250,000
IrI      11/12/71   J      1.0 million         -250,000
V        10/7/74   0      1.5 million                              I C   250,000
VI        9/12/75   C      2.5 million         -             -      C     250,000
Snis  7.8 mullIon
Bond Isaue
r       10/18/73   SF    8.0 million          14           8
standard rate vhen such portion .o committed for a spat fted prorect.
2/   lloPaYment Schedule  oaonent o  the             foroyen  spchfedus ofj the
,ub-boans of IChIT'. borroeOntoreamet.cedle    f  h
Note  In addition, e loan of DM 10 milluon from  the KIfW  S beong nogotiated.
Pebrury 22, 1977



_NNEY 9_
TOe INDUSTRIAL CRRDIT AND I9VER9 ST CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Details cf 002cc Rorrowengse Cooaladed
Ranig vi,-
Date of     hArnt         MatPrity       Rate of   Repaymoent a-via Capital
Loan Fo.  AMoveent  PA  wiorl1oao-  FLe oodS  1nterest Betins in    nd Debt_
governOOt Loant   :
1 I/29/55               75        30 ycare    Free of          1970  subordirAted to
(15 yoara)   interest               all debi aAd
paid-up share
capital
2     10/26/59          100       22              4y2%        1971  SD'bordirated to
(11 )                              foreien debt
(oxoept SF.
bonde only)
3      7/31/65          100       16           5% for It 90   1970       _do_
(5)          million,
5Y2% for
pi Io million
4      7/30/66           50      1(5               5Y29       1t971      -do-
__    5)
325
IDBI Loans:
I      11/1/66           50       15             5-5/89        1972       _do-
2      5/10/67           30       14             4-5/8%        1972      _do-
(4)
3     11/27/68          25        15             5_5/8%        1974      _do-
4      6/13/69           1a       15             5-5/0%        1975       -do-
(4)
5      2/17/71          18        14            sY4f           1976      _do-
(4)
6      3/22/72           18       14             623%          1977       _do_
(4)
7     11/26/7            28.5     14             6-3/4%        1979       -do-
(4)
8       9/3/74           19       1 4            7-3/4%        1979       _do-.
(4)
9     11/26/75           47.4     14             7-3/4S        1980       -do-
_       (4)
253.9
Dobeotvre Ireugn:
1      10/27/67          60    Redeemed Rn         6%            -           -
N.o-eebe. 3,
1975
2      11/25/69          50    Redeemable at       651           -   Subordina:e to
par on December                       foreign dobt
1, 1980                               (except S1'
Bonds onl)
3        6/1/72         70    Redeemablc at        6,            -        -do-
par on July 1,
1984
4       3/20/73          9O    Redeenablo at       6%            -        -do-
par on Ipril 1,
1985
5       5/30/74          90    Redeemiablo at      6Y4%          -        -do-
par on uae 15,
1966
6       2/10/75          55    Redeemable at       6Y4%          -        -do-
par on Aipil 1,
1985
7        8/2/75         137,5  aRedeemable at    6Y4%            -        -do-
par on Septom-
bgr 1, 1990
8       4/26/76         137.5  -Rad.eooble et    6Y43            -        _do_
par on lEay t5,
1991
9        9/9/76         165.0  aRedeble at    6y454              -        _-do-
par on October
_  1 5, 1992
9.15.0
G Coaranteed by the Covernment of India aR regards the repayment of preocipaL
and the payment of intereat.
1cl,a-re 22, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMIT.D
ICICI's Overall Operations
Trends
1.        General.  As a result of declining demand in certain key industrial
subsectors, ICICI's total net approvals declined slightly from Rs 722.6 mil-
lion in 1974 to Rs 712.3 million in 1975. However, during the first ten
months of 1976, total net approvals amounted to Rs 841.3 million, or a growth
of 41% on an annual basis over 1975 (Attachment 1). Similarly, for the same
period in 1976, commitments amounted to Rs 745.8 million, or 63% more than the
level in 1975 on an annual basis, part of which is explained by the level of
guarantees (Rs 87.8 million) compared to nothing in 1975. These sharp in-
creases are not yet reflected in the level of disbursements though by the end
of 1976 these are expected to reach Rs 655 million compared to Rs 546 million
in 1975.
2.        Loans.  Foreign currency loans have accounted for 61%, and local
currency loans for 22% of total ICICI approvals since its inception. From
1973 to the first ten months of 1976, foreign currency loans accounted for
56% of total approvals, and rupee loans 30% (para 12). Foreign currency loans
increased from Rs 442 million in 1973 to Rs 515 million in 1974, then declined
to Rs 353 million during the business recession, and are expected to increase
to Rs 425 million in 1976. By contrast, local currency loans increased from
Rs 175 million in 1973 to Rs 361 million for the first ten months of 1976.
3.        Investments.  ICICI's investment operations include both direct
subscription and underwriting of debentures and share issues. The two combined
constitute 14% of ICICI's total approvals since its inception and 8% of total
approvals in the first 10 months of 1976. The decreasing trend in the propor-
tion of this type of financing by ICICI, contrasted with the growth of rupee
loans, reflects ICICI's resource constraints. Most equity investments are
executed in conjunction with a loan, and for large projects they are arranged
jointly with other financial institutions.
4.        Including underwriting and direct subscription, investment c ora-
tions by ICICI reached Rs 127.8 million in 1975 compared to Rs `4.2 million
in 1974, mainly due to increased debenture subscriptiors. Atta3chment 2 sum-
marizes the changes in the volumes and types (shares and debentures) of
ICICI's investments. In view of the weak state of the secondary markets,
investment in debentures is now mainly done through direct subscription rather



ANNEX 10
Page 2
than underwriting (ICICI started directly subscribing to debentures in 1970).
Most of ICICI0s underwriting is in shares. Its policy is to underwrite only
an amount it could absorb in total should the issue fail. ICICI is one of the
pioneers in underwriting in India.
5.        To date, a very small part of ICICI's equity portfolio has been
obtained through conversion rights on its rupee loans and debentures. The
conversion right is the result of a GOI policy introduced in 1970 to help
prevent a concentration of economic power in private hands and to give finan-
cial institutions representation on the boards of relatively large enterprises
in the public interest. Conversion rights are sought where the total of
ICICI's rupee assistance exceeds Rs 5 million. Through June 30, 1976, the
number of ICICI projects where the conversion clause had been stipulated was
163 involving ICICI approvals of Rs 663 million, and amcunts convertible of
Rs 126.7 million (excluding 12 cases where ICICI exercised its rights; these
cases involved ICICI approvals of Rs 34 million and the amount converted was Rs
8.8 million).
6.        Guarantees.  Of total guarantees approved since ICICI's inception
(Rs 183.4 million), some Rs 171.7 million or 94% are to foreign suppliers.
ICICI's guarantees continue to constitute an insignificant part of its opera-
tions (about 2.4% of total approvals since inception). Appraisals and follow
up standards are the same for projects financed by ICICI through guarantees
(though most projects to which ICICI issues guarantees usually also receive
ICICI loans as well). Only two projects to which ICICI has issued guarantees
have had defaults. ICICI had to make advances of Rs 2 million to the foreign
suppliers. These advances are then treated as demand rupee loans to ICICI
clients.
7.        Merchant Banking.  A merchant banking unit was set up in 1973.
It offers a range of services including management of underwritings (negotia-
tions with brokers, etc.), assistance in raising term loans and share capital,
accounting, market research and other financial services. Up to October 30,
1976 it had successfully managed seven equity issues anc four term loans nego-
tiations, for projects in different sectors of industry. The total funds
raised (including share capital and term loans) for these projects amounts to
Rs 377 million; ICICI's fees amount ot Rs 3.8 million of which Rs 1.43 million
has been collected besides recovery of out of pocket expenses. In view of
ICICI's long experience and contacts in the financial field, it should be
able to make an important contribution through these activities. The merchant
banking department plays an important promotional role.
Characteristics
8.        Sectoral Distribution.  Although there is no fixed policy for
distribution of assistance amongst industries, ICICI has tended to con-
centrate more on the modern and non-traditional sectors. Thus, 21% of
all approvals since ICICI's inception have been for chemicals and petro-
chemicals, 17% for metals and metal products, and 10% for machinery
manufacture (including electricals). The balance of ICICI's financial



ANNEX 10
Page 3
assistance has gone to textiles (8%), automobiles and cycles (6%), pulp
and paper products (6%), rubber (5%), ceramics and glass (4%), shipping (4%)
and other industries (19%). The trends have remainded relatively constant
in the last few years (Attachment 3). Though ICICI assists a wide range of
industries, its financing of traditional industries, such as textiles, is
mostly for meeting balancing equipment needs. In view of ICICIs expertise
in the technologically advanced projects, and of the fact that other insti-
tutions cater more to the traditional sectors, the sectoral distribution
of ICICI's financing is adequate.
9.        Geographical Distribution,  The geographical distribution of ICICI's
approvals of financial assistance from 1955 to October 31, 7976 is as follows
(see Attachment 3): Western India (53%), South India (25%), North East India
(6%), North India (14%), and East India (2%). Compared to the national aver-
ages 1/, a definite skew in favor of Western India is apparent which i's in
part due to the fact that a large proportion of non-traditional industries are
located in Western India. The strengthening of the Regional Offices should be
a useful device to help ICICI attain a better overall geographical distribu-
tion of its financial assistance.
10.       Diversification of Clientele.  As of June 30, 1976 approvals of
financial assistance by ICICI aggregated Rs 7.2 billion for 1,919 projects
and 1,070 clients. Of these 1,919 projects, 849 (or 44%) were sponsored by
clients which had received financial assistance from ICICI previously. In
terms of amounts financed, these projects accounted for 48% of ICICI's
total approvals, a reasonable ratio for a development finance company which
had been in operation for almost 20 years with well established clients having
sizeable cash flows. Some 142 projects, accounting for 6% of total ICICI
financing, were established by a new entrepreneurs 2/.
11.       ICICI has financed mainly private sector industries, although it has
also financed some public and increasingly, joint sector companies (companies
with Government ownership between 25%-49%). Up to June 30, 1976 it had ex-
tended assistance of Rs 468.5 million to 56 Joint Sector companies, which
represented 6% of its total approvals as of the same date. This is almost
double the assistance compared to June 30, 1974 (Rs 240.9 million to 27
companies). It had also financed 13 projects with Government ownership above
51%; sanctions were Rs 108 million. Though a nominal amount of ICICIs financ-
ing has gone to small scale industries, large and medium-scale industries
have been the major beneficiaries of ICICI's assistance.
1/   The geographical distribution of industrial value added in India for
1969 was: Western India (41%), South India (18%), North East India
(22%), North India (13%), and East India (6%); however, the figures
are not strictly comparable since the overall data for India include
both private and public sector investment.
2/   Persons who had no ownership of industrial plants in the past.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
12.       Local Currency and Import Financing.  ICICI is the main source of
foreign currency finance for large projects 1/ in India. In 1975/76, it pro-
vided 72% of the foreign currency loans extended by term Lending institutions;
SFCs and IFCI provided the rest. The recent increase in ithe importance of
rupee financing is mainly due to the inproved availability of Indian capital
goods, improvements in ICICI's local resource position, and increased demand
due to the credit squeeze on commercial banks particularly during the period
1975-76.
13.       Nature of Project.  Since ineption to October .31, 1976, ICICI
had approved assistance to 1,998 projects, of which 592 (accounting for 33%
of ICICI's assistance by amount) were new projects, and 1,406 (accounting for
67% of ICICI's assistance by amount) were projects for expansion of capacity,
balancing or modernization. For the first ten months of 1976, new projects
accounted for 33% of approvals, expansion (31%), modernizat..on, balancing
and replacement (14%), diversification (13.0%), research and development
(2.0%) and other (7.0%) which is representative of previous years.
14.       Size of Loans.  Because ICICI caters mainly to big clients, the
average size of its loans is relatively large. During 1974, 1975 and the
first ten months of 1976, the average size of loans was $344,386 per project
in the case of rupee loans. Details on the size of ICICI's loans are given in
Attachments 4 and 5.
15.       Maturity of Loans.  Foreign currency loans committed during 1974,
1975 and the first ten months of 1976 had somewhat shorter maturities than
during previous years. Only 39% of the total number of loans had terms of
ten years or more (as compared to 53% for 1955 to 1976), 58% (45%) between
5 and 10 years and 3% (2%) less than 5 years (Attachment 4).  On the other
hand, the maturities of local currency loans remained about the same. During
1974, 1975 and the first ten months of 1976, 42% (by amount) of local currency
loans committed had terms of more than 10 years, and 4% less than 5 years
(Attachment 5).
16.       Project Execution.  Attachment 6 gives data on the projects com-
pleted from 1973 through September 30, 1976. 66% of the projects completed
during that period were ready on schedule, or with less than one year delay.
Unpunctual completions are mainly due to import license delays, changes in
project design and late delivery of machinery. The trend in cost overruns
is favorable. The percentage of projects completed within the estimated
costs increased from 41% in 1973 to 44% the first 9 months of 1976, mainly
as a result of the control of inflation. The impact of the reduced infla-
tion should be even more apparent in future years. ICICI is carefully moni-
toring developments in this area and reviewing carefully the project cost
at the time of appraisal. During 1975 and the first six months of 1976,
1/   Small and medium sized projects benefit from the IDA credit and Bank
loan to IDBI through the State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
some Rs 32 million (20% of total approvals for the projects), was for sup-
plementary financing to meet overruns. Usually, ICICI expects the promoters
to bring in their own funds to cover cost overruns (as stipulated in the loan
agreements) but ICICI is willing to be flexible when this financing is out of
the promoter's capacity. ICICI's policy of financing overruns only on the
merits of each case is adequate.
18.       Clients' Financial Performance.  Attachment 7 gives comparative
financial data for a sample of 651 ICICI clients in operation during periods
April to March 1973-1974 and 1974-75. The somewhat improved economic envi-
ronment is reflected in a steady improvement of performance. On the average,
these companies earned a return on total capital employed of 18.2% during
1974/75 compared to 16.1% and 15.2% during 1973/74 and 1972/73, as cement,
chemicals and petrochemicals, ferrous metal products, pulp paper and paper
products, rubber, shipping, sugar, improved their prof.Lability during 1975.
Food products, glass and pottery and machinery manufactured maintained the
same level as 1974. The overall performance of ICICI's portfolio in terms
of profitability remains satisfactory.



Attachment 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA *LIMITED
Summary of Operations to October 31, 1976
(Rs in million)
Foreign                                       Direct
Currency   Rupee       Guaran-   Under-       Subscrip-
Loans      Loans       tees      writing       tion       Total
A.  Approvals- 
1966              105.6        50.8        -         33.1          2.3        191.6
1967                65.5       49.0      32.0        68.5         2.0         217.0
1968              206.2        24.7      13.6        59.0         1.8         305.3
1969              186.6        39.8       0.8        69.9         0.8         297.9
1970              224.8        58.8       9.0        37.1        10.4         340.1
1971              264.1      158.3    -12.8          24.5        29.7         463.8
1972              430.8       113.5       3.7        43.7        33.5         625.2
1973              441.7      174.5        0.1        44.0        34.2         694.5
1974              514.5       173.9        -         37.1        -2.9         722.6
1975              353.1       200.6      30.8        47.1        80.7         712.3
1976 (Jan.-Oct.)  355.1       360.7      60.3        65.6        -0.4         841.3
Cumulative      4,646.6   1,700.3    183.4          802.3       250.5       7,583.1
since 1955                                -                     -
B.  Commitments-/
1966                88.0       34.0       -          50.1          2.3        174.8
1967                72.9       76.6      32.5        54.5          2.0        238.5
1968                92.7       19.9       -          73.8          1.8        188.2
1969              250.0        28.4       0.8        42.5          0.8        322.5
1970              146.9        53.9      11.5        58.9          7.4        278.6
1971              299.2        91.4       -          21.6          8.9        421.1
1972              272.1        88.9       -          43.1        15.7         419.8
1973              551.6       134.6       1.5        32.6        25.0         745.3
1974              376.6       173.4       6.3        23.9         4.8         585.0
1975              349.1       106.4       -          51.4        39.4         546.3
1976 (Jan.-Oct.) 400.0        204.1      87.8        32.2        21.7         745.8
Cumulative      4,193.7   1,253.3    180.1          713.9       188.3       6,529.3
since 1955                                -         -
C.  Disbursements
1966              145.2        50.8       -          35.6          2.2        233.8
1967              102.0        50.7       -          47.2         2.5         202.4
1968                72.2       39.7       -          50.9         1.7         164.5
1969              108.3        38.5       -          31.8         1.9         180.5
1970               202.4       40.2       -          26.9          6.7        276.2
1971               271.0       83.1       -           8.9         9.0         372.0
1972              351.9        75.8       -          18.2        15.1         461.0
1973              359.2       106.1       2.0        14.4        22.3         504.0
1974              369.2       157.7       0.1        21.0         8.3         556.3
1975               371.0      134.2       0.1        24.2        16.3         545.8
1976 (Jan.-Oct.) 279.4        146.2       -          20.9        22.2         468.7
Cumulative      3.629.0   1,132.2         2.2       41L-Q       164.7      5,340.0
since 1955                              -           -                      _
Note: Foreign currency figures have been converted at the current parity of
the rupee.
1/   Net of cancellations.
Febrnarv 22, 1Q77



ANNEX   10
Attachment 2
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Underwriting of and Direct Subscription to
Shares and Debentures to October 31, 1976
(Rs in million)
Underswiting                  Direct Subscription
Year            Shares   Debentures   Total   Shares   Debentures   Total
Approvals-/
1966             11.9         21.2        33.1       2.3          -         2.3
1967             40.3         28.2        68.5       2.0          -         2.0
1968             17.5         41.5        59.0      1.8           -         1.8
1969             32.5         37.4        69.9      0.8           -         0.8
1970             17.8         19.3        37.1      8.4          2.0       10.4
1971             22.5          2.0        24.5    17.7          12.0       29.7
1972             30.7         13.0        43.7      7.5         25.9       33.4
1973             42.4          1.6        44.0      8.7         25.5       34.2
1974             31.1          6.0        37.1      2.6         -5.5       -2.9
1975             45.6          1.5        47.1      5.6         75.1       80.7
1976 (Jan.-Oct) 65.3           0.3        65.6      4.6         -5.0       -0.4
Cumulative      543.2        259.1       802.3   105.5         145.0      250.5
since 1955                                                                _
Commitmentsl/
1966              28.9        21.2        50.1      2.3           -         2.3
1967             25.9         28.6        54.5      2.0           -         2.0
1968             24.8         49.0        73.8      1.8           -         1.8
1969             16.0         26.5        42.5      0.8           -         0.8
1970             45.4         13.5        58.9      7.4           -         7.4
1971             16.6          5.0        21.6      7.9          1.0        8.9
1972             29.8         13.3        43.1    10.2           5.5       15.7
1973             29.6          3.0        32.6      9.3         15.7       25.0
1974             14.1          9.8        23.9      3.6          1.2        4.8
1975             52.1         -0.7        51.4      8.9         30.5       39.4
1976 (Jan.-Oct.)29.7           2.5        32.2      5.6         16.1       21.7
Cumulative      462.6        251.3       713.9   103.2          85.1      188.3
since 1955                                                                  - _
Disbursements
1966             18.8         16.8        35.6      2.2           -         2.2
1967             19.6         27.6        47.2      2.5           -         2.5
1968             12.2         38.7        50.9      1.7           -         1.7
1969               9.1        22.7        31.8      1.9           -         1.9
1970             15.7         11.2        26.9      6.7           -         6.7
1971               7.0         1.9         8.9      8.0          1.0        9.0
1972             10.4          7.8        18.2      9.6          5.5       15.1
1973             14.4           -         14.4      8.5         13.8       22.3
1974             14.0          7.0        21.0      5.0          3.3        8.3
1975             23.0          1.2        24.2      9.3          7.0       16.3
1976 (Jan.-Oct) 20.9            -         20.9      6.1        16.1        22.2
Cumulative      242.9        169.0       411.9   103.1         61.6       164.7
since 1955                               --                               _
1/ Net of cancellations.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX --  10
Attachment 3
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTHENT CORPORATION OF INDIA lIMITED
Comparative Statement of Financial Assiatance Approved
1974 to October 31, 1976
(Re million)
1974                             1975                      1976 (Jan.- Oc:t.)                1955 to Oct. 31  1976
No. of        Net     % of      No. of         Net    'Iof        No. of         Net      %or         No. of         Net       7 of
Industry                        Projects  Approvals  Total    Projects  Apptovale  Total           Projects  Approvals  Total         Projects   Approvals   Total
Cement                               2          4.3      0.6         1         45.0        6.3          2         23.0       2.7          33         224.2         3.0
Chemicals 4 Petrochemicals          46        137.9     19.1       37         124.5      17.5          56        232.'.     27.6         392       1,610.2       21.2
Electrical Equipment               31         36.0       5.0       13          66.6       2.3         12          38.7      4.6          200         472.8        6.2
Electricity, Gas and Steam           3         0.4       0.1        -           1.1       0.1           8          7.1      0.9           35         137.0        1.8
Food Products (other than
sugar)                             4          0.9       0.1                    7.6       1.1          1          6. 7      0.8           46          68.4        0.9
Glass, Pottery etc.                  6         28.8      4.0       12          17.5        2.5          1         10.(       1.2          81         288.8        3.8
Machinery Manuf-actor
(other than Electricals)          19        111.3      15.4       27         138.4      19.4         25         54.1        6.5         239         778.5       10.3
Metals & Metal Products             26         99.1     13.7       33         164.1      23.0          12         30.2       3.6         294       1,269.0        16.7
Pulp, Paper sod Paper
Products                            6        31.3       4.3       12          41.6       5.8         14         84.?      10.0          105         457.0        6.0
Rhbber Products                      8        114.3     15.8        4          19.7       2.8           7         52.2       6.2          46         386.2        5.1
Shipping                             2        23.2       3.2        -          .0.4*       -            3         77.1       9.2          16         322.4        4.3
Sugar                                5        17.2       2.4        6          23.2       3.3         15          72.'.      8.6          51         200.7        2.6
Textiles                            10        53.8        7.4       6           8.3        1.2        11         43.         5.1         188         574.2         7.6
Transport Equipment                  9        34.5       4.8       14          29.9       4.2         10         65.6        7.8         106         452.7        6.0
Wood, Cork and Hardboard             2          3.5       0.5       3            7.4       1.0          5         14.?       1.7          20          50.5        0.7
Miscellaneous                        4         26.1       3.6      14           S7.8      9.5          14         29..       3.5         146         290.5         3.8
Total                         183        722.6    100.0       187         712.3    100.0         196        841.1    100.0        1 998        7,583.1      100.0
Geographical Distribution
Andhra Pradesh                       5          2.7       0.4        9          37.3       5.2         18         85.0      10.1          69         306.1         4.0
Assam                                1          6.4       0.9        3           2.3       0.3          2         10.4       1.2          12          62.2         0.8
Bihar                               4         19.7        2.7       4          52.1        7.3          -         -5.,'*    -0.7*         49         455.0        6.0
Gujarat                             16         56.1       7.8       15          38.4       5.4         17         82.'       9.8         258         885.0        11.7
Hlaryana                             5          9.9       1.4       4         -12.6*    -1.8*          12         31.21      3.7          75         183.7         2.4
Himachal Pradesh                     -           -         -         1           0.2        -           2          6. '      0.8           3           6.9         0.1
laJmu & Kashmir                     -           -         -         -            -         -           2          9.0        1.1           2           9.0        0.1
Karnataka                           10         89.2     12.3        9           32.4      4.5          12         56.:       6.7         116         491.0         6.5
Kerala                               3         16.3       2.3       10          21.5       3.0          3          0.7       0.1          49         143.4         1.9
Madhya Pradesh                       5         29.6       4.1        -           9.7       1.4          6         38.'       4.6          36          169.3        2.2
Maharashtra                         85        257.0      35.6       69         146.7      27.7         65        254.6      30.3         776       2,549.9        33.6
Meghalaya                            -           -         -         -            -         -           2          5.4       0.6           2            5.4        0.1
OIri-s                               1          9.2       1.3        2           6.5       0.9          2         42.6       5.1          27         163.1         2.2
P-njab                               2         15.2       2.1        1          19.5       2.7          4         14.4       1.7          12          53.1         0.7
Rajasthan                            5         40.0       5.5       4           37.3       5.2          6         23. '      2.8          29         178.2         2.4
Tamil Nadu                          13         77.2      10.7       23         128.0      18.0          9         50.1       6.0         168         827.4        10.9
Uttar Pradesh                        9         23.4      3.2        5           47.3      6.7          14         54.4       6.5          89         381.6         5.0
West Bengal                          8         12.5       1.7       20          44.8       6.4         14         66. '      7.9         169         481.9         6.4
Union Territories
Am.daman                             -           -         -         1           3.0      0.4           -           -         -            1          3.0           -
Arunachal Pradesh                    1          3.1       0.4        -            -         -           -           -         -            1          3.1           -
Chandigarh                           -         -0.2*       -         -           0.2        -           -         -0.*       -            8         15.6         0.2
Delhi                                5          6.6      0.9        -          .1.0*    -0.1*           1         -0.4*       -           21         47.5         0.6
Goa                                  4         38.0      5.2         7          48.3      6.8           5         19.        2.3          25        156.0          2.1
Pondicherry                          1        10.7       1.5        -             -        -            -         -5.0*    -0.6*           1          5.7         0.1
Total                         183        722.6    100.0       187         712.3    100.0         196        841.2;    100.0       1,998       7,583.1       100.0
Nature of Project
New Projects                        51        244.7     33.9       63          243.7     37.0          77        238.5      28.3         592      2,533.0         33.4
Modernization Balance, etc.        132        477.9      66.1      124         448.6      63.0        119        602.1E     71.7       1,406      5,049.0         66.6
Total                         183        722.6    100.0       187         712.3    100.0         196        841.:1    100.0        1,998      7,583.0       100.0
Type of Clients
New Entrepreneurs                    5         33.9       4.7       13          38.3       5.4         21         71. '      8.5         142        483.5          6.4
Other                              178        688.7     95.3       174         674.0      94.6        175        769.6      91.5       1,856      7,099.6         93.6
Total                         183        722.6    100.0       187         712.3    100.0         196        841.:;    100.0        1,998      7,583.1       100.0
Local vo. Foreign
Local Currency                       -        208.1      28.0        -         359.2      50.4          -        486.2      57.8           -      2,936.5         38.7
Foreign Currency                     -        514.5      71.2        -         353.1      49.6          -        355.1      42.2           -      4,646.6         61.3
Total                         183        722.6    100.0       187         712.3    100.0         196        841.:1    100.0        1,998      7,583.1       100.0
Notes:  1.  Geographical Distribution - West India:  Gujarat,  Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Goa.
South India:  Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry.
East India: Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Andaman.
North India:  Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan. Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Delhi.
North East India: Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya.
2.  Negative due to subseqoent cancellations.
February 22, 1977



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Analysis of Foreign Currency Commitments by Size and Maturities
(Rs million)          IBRD Loans
1974                          1975             (U       ary-Seetember, 1976      1955Sevtember 30, 1976
Size                                              No.   Amount       %.        No.    Amount       %         No.    AmAount                                           %
Less than 0.1 million                               55    2.554       7.3        55      2.131      5.9        39      1.519       5.1       369       17.258         4.6
0.1 million to lose than 0.5 million                25    4.833    13.9          32     8.591    23.8          15      2.804       9.3       354      85.270         22.7
KfW Loan
0.1 million to less than 0.2 million                10   17.726    34.9           3     0.355      11.49        0      162         78          8 14 925 3.  4  0.824  13.0
0.25 million to   less than   0.50 million           2     .2419      .5          5     6.4521     5.5 17               07.410    24.3        69      24.296         21.4
0.50 million  to less than   1 million               3     .797   136.3           3     1.3       47.9          7      4.55924    52.4         5       37.234       132.7
2 million to less then 4 million                     -   -0.024    -0.5           _      -           _          _       _           _          5      13.64          14.70
4 million and above
Total                                        22    4.950   100.0          19      3100.0100.0           32      9.4()3    100.0        316    113.668        100.0
U.K. Loans
(DM)
Less than 0.05 million                              22    0.371       28.5      -9    -0.010    _1.4            1     0.146       14.6        91       1.023         17.1
0.05 million to less than 0.1 million                5    0.323     24.9        _1    _0.063      -8.9          3     0.457       46.2        10       0.903         15.0
0.1 million to less then 0.25 million                8    1.021     78.5          1       0.166    23.4         1      0.109      11.0        18       2.579         43.2
0.25 million to less  than 0.50 million             -1   -0.415         -31.9     _     0.027       3.8         1      0.277      28.0         3       0.885         14.8
0.50 million  to less than 0.75 million              -    -          -            1     0.588    93.1           -       -           -          1        0.588         9.8
0.75 million and above                               -                 -          - _      _ _                                                                
Total                                        34    1.300   100.0          1       0.708   100.0          6      0.989     100.0         83       5.978       100.0
AID. Loans
7T-
Less than 0.1 million                                -     -           -          -      -           -          -       -           -          9       0.574         12.1
0.1 million to less than 0.5 million                 -     -           -          -4- -  -_ -                           -           -          6       1.513         33.8
0.5 million to less than 1 million                   -      -          -          _      _           _          _       _           _           2       1.184        26.5
1 mllion to less than 2 million                     -     -          -           -      -           -          -       -           -          1       1.203         26.9
2 miion and above
Total                                         -      _          -          -       -          -          -        -           -         18       4.474       100.0
SWISS FRANC BONDS
Leo.  than 0.5 million                               2    0.796    18.1           1     0.533        -          -       -           -          3       1.329         17.2
0.5 million to less than I million                   -   -0.213    -4.8          -I    -0.757        -          -       -           -          2       1.134         14.7
1 million to less than 2 million                     3    3 812    86.7           1     0.381        _          _       _           _          4       5.276         68.1
2 million and above                                  -                                    -                     -
Total                                         5    4-395   100.0           _      0.157       -          _       _            _          9       7.739       100.0
ALL LOANIS
Maturities
Less than 3 years                                   -2    0                       1                    I        _                     I                                 2
3 to less than 5years                                4               2            5                  4          6                  5          26                      2
5 to lees then 7 years                              34              20          41                  33         39                 34         236                     17
7 to lens  than 10 yeats                           67               38          18                 15          37                 32         384                     29
10 to less than 12 years                           52               30           34                 28         27                 24         460                     33
12 to less than 15 years                            12               7           21                17           8                  7         253                     18
15 years and above                                   6               3            3                  2         -3                 -2          24                      2
Total                                       174              100.0       123               100.0       10.0                 00.0    1.384                    100.0
Notes:  1.  lone fiyures are negative doe  to shifting and redoctions.
2.  Information is in respect of loans for which loan agreements vith clients  have been signed.
12ehrea.y 22, ;  .      r 7



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Analysis of Rupee Commitments by Size and Maturities
(Rs in million)
1974                 1975           1976 (January-September)  1955 to September 30, 1976
Size                    No.  Amount    %    No.  Amount    %          No.   Amount       X      No.      Amount         x
Under one million             9      1.8      1.0  '21    6.3      5.9      6       1.1      0.6    149          58.2       4.7
1 to less than 5 million    40    88.4    51.0   22   42.2    39.7    43          99.7      53.4    280         609.8      49.3
5 to less than 10 million    6    36.5    21.1    6   36.0    33.8          8     46.0      24.6      59        349.5      28.3
10 to less than 15 million   -        -        -     2   22.5    21.2       2      22.5     12.0      10        106.0       8.6
15 million and above          2    46.7    26.9    -   -0.6    -0.6         1      17.5      9.4       6        112.6       9.1
57   173.4   100.0   51  106.4   100.0    60    186.8    100.0    504           1,236.1    100.0
Maturities
Less than 3 years            19    36.0    20.8  -18  -39.3   -36.9         7      14.9       8.0     20         30.6       2.5
3 to less than 5 years        -      3.0      1.7   -1   -1.0    -0.9       --       -         -       8          8.3       0.7
5 to less than 7 years        4      8.1      4.7    4    4.1      3.8      3      16.0       8.6     40         73.8       6.0
7 to less than 10 years      24    76.1    43.9   28   57.2    53.8    27          57.5     30.8    239         546.5      44.2
10 to less than 12 years    10    23.4    13.5   16   62.3    58.5    12           55.6      29z7      96       314.4      25.4
12 to less than 15 years      -    26.8    15.4   12   20.5    19.3         6      27.5      14.7     63        208.4      16.8
15 years and above            -       -        -    10    2.6      2.4      5      15.3       8.2      38         54.1      4.4
57   173.4   100.0   51  106.4   100.0    60    186.8    100.0    504           1,236.1    100.0  : %
February 22, 1977



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTHENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Cost Overruns and Delays in Projects Completed in 1973, 1974  1975 and 1976
(Rs in '000)
1973                                          1974                                       1975                                1976 (Jan. - Sept.)
No. of               Initial                 No. of               Initial                  No. of             Initial                       of             Initial
Projects    %        Estimates   Actual    ProJects    %         Estimates    Actual    Proiects    %    Estimates    Actual    Projects    7.   Estimates    Actual
Investment Coste
Projects completed within
estimates                                   51      40.8        510,652    502,663       40      44.0        313,297      307,063      35      38.1      349,109       344,137      24      44.4      201,064      200,614
With overrun within 25%                     46      36.8        897,550  1,009,327        27     30.0        301,721      325,327      32      34.8      580,504       647,991      16      29.6   1,307,920   1,552,023
With overrun 25-50%                         14      11.2        249,195    341,497        10      11.0       803,960   1,070,496        14     15.2      438,000       604,090       7      13.0      466,143      634,610
With overrun over 50%                        4       3.2          1,865        3,123       4       4.0       201,570      308,240        6       6.5      159,142      261,119       4       7.4      714,534   1,077,627
Information not yet available               10       8.0            1/           1/       10     11.0            2/           2/        5       5.4           3/           3/        3       5.6          4/            4/
125    100.0       1,659,262  1,856,610       91    100.0    1,620,548   2,011,126          92    100.0   1,526,755   1,857,337          54    100.0   2,689,661   3,464,874
7. Actual over initial estimate                                  11.9',                                       24.10/.                                      21. 7.                                       28.8%
Completion Periods
Projects completed on schedule              28      22.4                                   9       9.9                                  11     12.0                                   8     14.8
With less than one year delay               69      55.2                                  47      51.6                                  43      46.7                                 25     46.3
With delays over one year                   21      16.8                                  32      35.2                                  30      32.6                                 19     35.2
Information not yet available                7       5.6                                   3      3.3                                    8      8.7                                   2      3.7
125    100.0                                  91    100.0                                   92    100.0                                  54    100.0
1/ Initial estimate was Es 507.9 million.
1/ Initial estimate was Rs 274.6 million.
2/ Initial estimate was Rs 7.7 million.
4/ Initial estimate was Rs 2.8 million.
February 22, 1977



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
FinancLal Performance of ICICI Clients In Operation
(Data for 651 Companies Covering April-March 1973-74 and 1974-75)
Profits Before                           Profits After                        Value Added as
Gross Profits      Tax as 7. of       Return on Total        Tax as % of      Wages as % of          % of
Industry Group                          Ye-r         as % of Sales          Sales          Capital Employed        Net Worth       Valuee Added       Gross Capital
Total Sample                          1973-74            16.3                8.7                 16.1                11.4              50.8               28.3
(651 companies)                      1974-75             16.2                9.1                18.2                 13.6             49.8                30.0
Automobiles and Cycles                1973-74            14.4                6.3                 14.9                10.3              53.4                27.2
(25 companies)                       1974-75             13.1               4.4                 13.0                  6.5             55.0                26.6
Cement                                1973-74            11.4               -0.6                  4.1                -5.9              58.3                16.8
(11 companies)                       1974-75             15.3                5.2                11.4                  6.1             48.2                20.5
Chemicals & Petrochemicals            1973-74            23.6               12.3                 16.4                 14.1             35.1                26.0
(98 companies                        1974-75             25.2              15.8                 23.7                 22.4              30.8               31.4
Electrical Equipment                 1973-74             21.8               16.8                 32.5                15.2              52.1                35.1
(61 companies)                       1974-75             18.4               13.3                24.8                 14.0              58.7               33.3
Food Products (excl. sugar)          1973-74              7.4                4.5                 17.6                 9.4              50.3                34.7
(17 companies)                       1974-75              7.3                4.1                17.2                 10.6              48.2               32.9
Glass and Pottery                     1973-74            22.2               11.6                 16.9                 8.9              49.1                31.2
(16 companies)                       1974-75             Z1.2                9.2                16.3                 13.2             49.2                32_6
Machinery Manufacture                 1973-74            15.8                8.2                 16.0                 13.2             52.7                34.6
(79 companies)                       1974-75             14.9                7.2                16.3                 10.2              53.9               34.4
Metal Products (ferrous)              1973-74            18.1                7.7                 11.9                  7.4             54.9                22.8
(55 companies)                       1974-75             17.9                9.3                16.0                 10.6              52.2                25.9
Metal Products (non-ferrous)          1973-74            14.5                3.4                  6.8                  1.2             53.9                19.0
(18 companies)                       1974-75             14.0                3.8                 8.1                  2.0              55.0                20.4
Power Generation and
Distribution                         1973-74            17.6                9.4                 11.0                  7.4             22.0                14.6
(8 coupanies)                        1974-75             15.3                8.8                 12.9                  7.9             36.5                16.0
Pulp, Paper and Paper ProducLt        1973-74            21.1               10.8                 15-0                 11.7             43.8                23.9
(35 companies)                       1974-75             28.9               20.4                30.8                 22.9              33.9                35.0
Rubber Products                       1973-74            10.9                4.9                 14.9                  9.1             56.1                32.4
(14 companies)                       1974-75             11.5                6.5                 18.3                13.6              50.0                32.9
-i ~Shtpting                          1973-74             32.0              14.6                  9.1                 18.2              23.9                15.4
(3 companies                         1974-75             38.5               20.5                 14.9                 29.4             .21.2               20.8
Sugar                                 1973-74            10.2                3.5                  9.2                  8.1             38.4                14.1
tr3io.panies)                        1974-75             12.3                5.0                 12.5                 11.8             34.0                16.4
Textiles                              1973-74            14.0                7.6                 18.2                 16.2              61.6               38.8
(66 companies)                       1974-75             10.7                4.5                 13.5                  9.4             67.7                36.9
Diversified Comapnie_s_               1973-74             13.4               7.5                 17.4                 12.8              49.2                30.3
(44 compeniesY1                       1974-75            13.6                8.2                 19.5                 11.4             48.8                31.6
Miscellaneous                         1973-74             10.2               5.1                 13.4                  7.4              62.9                35.5
(86 companies)                       1974-75              9.8                4.7                 15.0                  9.4             62.1                37.5
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 11.
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
ICICI's Export Study
1.        During negotiations of the eleventh loan, ICICI undertook to
prepare a study of the problems and prospects of India's manufactured
exports based on a sample of its clients. A draft report was ready in
November 1976. Based on data from 82 companies the report analyzes their
export performance, financial profitability, economic indicators (such as
effective rate of protection and domestic resource cost), export incentives,
factors motivating exports, export marketing, shipping and finance. Below
is a summary and an evaluation of the study.
A. SUMMARY OF THE STUDY
I. Trends in India's Exports of Industrial Manufactures
2.        During the last 15 years, India's exports represented a relatively
small segment of India's economy, ranging only between 4.0% and 5.5% of GNP.
In relation to world exports, Indian exports constituted only about 0.8% to
1.0% in the sixties, and declined to 0.5% in the early seventies with a slight
reversal in 1975.
3.        While total exports compared to GNP did not change much during the
past 15 years, the composition of exports shifted in favor of non-traditional
manufactures, partly as a result of the changes in the Indian industrial
structure during the past 15 years.
4.        In the first half of the sixties, the overall rate of growth in
industrial production was about 9% per annum on average. However, during
this period industrial exports declined from 15.0% to 11.9% of industrial
output, indicating absorption in the domestic economy. In 1965/66, exports
of non-traditional manufactures accounted only for 4.9% of manufactures
exports, while their availability on the domestic market increased substan-
tially from 1960/61 to 1965/66, as the table below shows:



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Indigenous Supplies as Percent of Total Supplies
1960/61     1965/66
Textile Machinery                 31           62
Machine Tools                     35           38
Iron and Steel                    64           83
Aluminum                          42           74
Soda Ash                          60           90
Caustic Soda                      72           75
Thus, in the first half of the sixties, industries in the non-traditional
sector emerged primarily as import substitution industries.
5.        The second half of the sixties was characterized by stagnation of
industrtial production, with a substantial decline in the capital goods in-
dustry. During this period, non-traditional exports increased at over 15%
p.a. in value, whereas total exports increased by 14% p.a.
6.        The first part of the seventies was characterized by extremely
rapid export growth of non-traditional manufactures. Between 1972/73 and
1974/75 (the period covered in the study), non-traditional exports grew at
54% p.a. compared to an average growth of India's exports of 29% p.a. As
a result, the share of non-traditional exports in total exports grew from
10% in 1972/73 to 14% in 1974/75. This may be attributed to: (i) the
substantial real devaluation of the rupee since August 1971, compared to
major currencies other than the British pound; and (ii) exploitation of
opportunities in the South East Asian countries and the Middle East (OPEC)
countries.
II. The Sample
7.        From the 625 manufacturing clients of ICICI as of December 1974,
for whom export data were available, 150 companies were selected to partici-
pate in the study. Eventually, 82 companies (60 exporting, 20 non-exporting)
representing 29 products were used in the sutdy sample based on available
data, which covered the period of 1972/73 to 1974/75.
III. Export Performance of ICICI Assisted Companies
General
8.        Between 1973/74 and 1974175, the total exports of a sample of 374
clients increased by 56% from Rs 2.1 billion (1973/74) to Rs 3.2 billion;



ANNEX 11
Page 3
this increase was larger than the 54% annual export growth rate of India's
non-traditional manufactures. During the same period, the share of exports
by these companies in India's exports of industrial goods increased from 15%
to 17%; in six non-traditional industry groups 1/ the participation of these
companies' export sales increased from 35% to 42%. These companies' exports
as percentage of total sales increased from 6.8% to 8.1% during the same
period.
Export Performance of Sample Companies
9.        Exports constituted an increasing share in total sales of sample
companies during 1972/73 to 1974/75. As proportion of India's exports of
non-traditional items, the share of the sample companies was around 30%
during 1972/73-1974/75.
Export Performance: Rank Correlation
10.       There was only a very small correlation between export performance
and:
Labor intensity            (Positive)
Size of company           (Negative)
Export realization        (Positive)
Export Performance and Foreign Collaboration
11.       There seems to be a positive relationship between export performance
and foreign collaboration, although most exporters did not receive any assist-
ance in marketing (particularly through channels of collaborators).
IV. Financial Profitability
Trends in Profitability of Sample Companies (Inclusive of Incentives)
12.       Sample companies had virtually the same profitability (as percent
of sales) in 1972/73 and 1973/74 as all ICICI companies but 1% less in
1974/75.  The 22 non-exporting sample companies had significantly higher,
but declining, gross profit margins (as percent of sales) than the exporting
companies, which had increasing gross profit margins.
Trends in Profitability of Export Sales
13.       Gross profit margins (exclusive of incentives) improved from -25%
to -17% to -3% from 1972/73 to 1974/75, respectively.
1/   Automobiles and automobile products, chemicals and petrochemicals,
electrical equipment, machinery manufacture, metal products, and
rubber products.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Contribution to Overheads
14.       In 30 cases export sales did not cover variable costs (including
refrigerators and tyres and tubes). However, the shortfall declined over
the years.
Capacity Utilization
15.       Exports may have assured higher capacity utilization than otherwise
possible. In product groups like wire ropes, hand tools, textile machinery
and cotton textiles (where exports constituted more than 10% of total sales),
capacity utilization was higher than the average for the relevant product
group.
Changing Direction of Exports
16.       Exports to Asia and Middle East increased percentage wise:
Direction of Exports - Sample Products
(Percent)
1972/73     1973/74      1974/75
East Europe          16,9         12.3          8.3
USSR                 13.5         10.1          6.9
Middle East           9.4         12.0         20.1
ESCAP /a             21.6         21.0        25.8
Africa                7.5          6.2         10.4
Others               31.1         38.3        28.5
100.0       100.0        100.0
/a   Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Indonesia,
Burma, Japan, Mialaysia, Nepal, New Zealand,
South Korea, Republic of Vietnam, Singapore,
Sri Lanka and Thailand.
Impact of Export Incentives on Financial Profitability
17.       Export incentives seem to have, in many cases, bridged the gap
between domestic and export market profitability.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
V. Economic Indicators
Effective Rate of Protection
18.       In respect of eight I/ products out of 22, the Effective Rate of
Protection on exports (ERPE) is higher than the Effective Rate of Protection
on domestic sales (ERPD), indicating a bias for export sales. This is cor-
roborated by the financial profitability in export sales which was greater
than that in domestic sales.
Domestic Resource Cost
19.       For seventeen products (paper, heavy commercial vehicles, electric
motors, tyres and tubes, refrigeration equipment) out of 22 the adjusted
DRCs 2/ were less than or equal to Rs 8.0 per US$1, indicating that domestic
production had a comparative advantage. For most products, the crude DRC was
above Rs 8.0 per US$1, particularly also for those wlhere exports constituted
a significant protion of sales. For many of these products, export incentives
seem to have been important inducements. The correlation between DRCs and
export incentives, though rather insignificant, is adverse. A number of
products 3/ had high DRCs and a high proportion of incentives which in some
cases represented new market entrants using presumably penetration prices to
gain a foothold in export market. Export incentives bridged the gap between
social profitability and private profitability in a large majority of cases.
VI. Export Incentives
20.       Export incentives as proportion of f.o.b. value of exports of
sample companies declined from 32.9% to 26.4% to 14.9% in the respective
years 1972/73 to 1974/75, due to time lags in claims, and actual reduction
in incentives.
21.       A trend towards decline in the percentage premium realized on
nomination of REP licenses also confirms the improvement in the supply
situation of indigenous inputs at competitive prices.
1/   Cables, steel tubes, machine tools, textile machinery, switchgears,
cement, hand tools, and wire ropes.
2/   ICICI calculated three types of DRCso (a) "crude" - measures the domes-
tic resource cost at market price of earning one US$; (b) "adjusted" -
indigenously purchased tradable inputs are revalued at border prices
and wages are revalued at the shadow wage rate of 0.5; (c) "short run" -
only variable cost components are included.
3/   Switchgears, machine tools, tyres and tubes and diesel engines.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
VII. Factors Mlotivating ExportS
22.       Export obligation ranked first in factors motivating export maket
entry. Availability of export incentives ranked first in factors motivating
continued exports.
VIII. Export Marketing and Shipping
23,       Factors hampering growth of exports were lack of brand image, long
delivery periods, and lack of pre- and after sales service.
24.       The absence of an effective market information system was one of
the major marketing problems.
25.       Most established exporters complained about non-availability of
shipping space and high freight rates.
IX. Export Finance
26.       No conclusions are made concerning the impact of availability and
terms of export credit on export performance, due to lack of adequate data.
B. EVALUATION OF THE STUDY
General
27.       The study is quite well done and should be very useful to IBRD,
ICICI and GOI since it provides a detailed microeconomic evaluation of the
effects of export promotion policy. The discussion below evaluates what the
study shows about the financial profitability and economic efficiency of
exports. The implications for ICICI itself, and dr-4rable follow-up work
are also reviewed.
Consequences of Export Promotion Policy
28.       Financial Profitability.  The most important and reliable conclu-
sion of the study is that overall the incentive system has bridged the gap
between domestic and export market profitability. This is shown for the
longer run by the comparison of effective rates of export subsidization with
effective rates of protection on domestic sales. In addition, the short run
DRC indicates the high profitability of exports on ' short run marginal cost



ANNEX 11
Page 7
basis. Perhaps equally important, profitability without incentives has
improved over the period studied, because of India's devaluation and improved
export realization after initial penetration pricing. At the same time, the
aggregate effect of the incentive system seems to have declined to almost
exactly the same extent as market profitability improved. Thus, gross
profitability of exports remained fairly constant, but incentives became
a less important factor in determining it.
29.       While the incentive system has been effective overall, a comparison
between the effective rate of subsidization on export sales and the effective
rate of protection on domestic sales shows that there are wide variations,
with differences of more than 100% for several products, giving 8 indust:i*es
a bias towards export sales and in the other 14 industries a bias towards
domestic sales. Even though the effective rate of protection on domestic
sales based on f.o.b. realizations overstate the extent of protection, such
large differences are in principle undesirable since social profitability
considerations call for providing equal incentives to exports and to import
substitution since, from the point of view of the national economy, a dollar
earned in exporting is equivalent to a dollar saved through import substi'
tution.
30.       Economic Efficiency.  For 17 out of 22 products, the "adjusted' DRC
was lower than Rs 8.0 per US dollar and this provides some indication (however
slight) that many of India's exports were efficient.
Subsequent Work
31.       ICICI will continue to update the information contained in the study
on a regular basis and also explore in more detail the importance of export
finance, shipping and export marketing as factors influencing export perfor-
mance. In addition, ICICI would review existing company data to test certain
hypotheses for a penetration pricing study, in particular the determination
of the factors responsible for the observed increase over time in the ratio
of export to domestic prices.
Implementation of the Study
32.       The main value of the study is for GOI.  The analysis and results
will be used as a part of the ongoing dialogue on export policy. For ICICI
itself, the study should have a number of benefits: (i) it will be in a
better position to advise its clients on export incentives and procedures,
and to encourage them to plan for exports at the initial stages of project
preparation; and (ii) it can discuss the detailed implications of policy
with GOI on an informed basis.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Outline of a Proposed Study of Selected Subsectors
of the Engineering Industry
1.        ICICI proposes to conduct a study of selected subsectors of the
engineering industry. For ICICT the usefulness of the study consists in
understanding better the factors affecting investment decisions of firms
assisted by it. The study would also be of broader interest in so far as
it will help identifying different aspects of each subsector having a bearing
on policy. The study will examine in detail aspects such as the structure,
the demand prospects both in the domestic and the export markets and the need
for upgradation of technology. For each subsector a questionnaire will be
designed to focus larger attention on problems and aspects which are more
important for it. An attempt will also be made to estimate broadly the in-
vestment needs of each subsector, including for modernization and diversi-
fication.
2.        The study will investigate in detail performance of individual
firms which will possibly provide understanding of problems common to the
subsector and indicate why some firms (through, say, produce diversification,
R & D activities, etc), have performed better than others.
3.        The study will examine factors which will encourage investment
activity in each subsector. An assessment will be made of the impact of
Government policies, particularly industrial licensing policy, trade policy,
policy regarding import of technology and price contro:L.
4.        Another aspect which will be covered in the Study is the develop-
ment of ancillary industries and attempts will be made to estimate its likely
impact on employment. In addition, aspects of ancillary products such as
pricing, selling, terms, quality, technical assistance provided by the large-
scale units will also be examined both quantitatively and qualitatively.
For automotive industry, which we propose to take up first, a few major
components supplying ancillary industries having inter alia export and
small industry implications will be investigated.
5.        While available information from the published sources (e.g. GOI
Reports, Bank Studies, Balance Sheets) will be extensively used, this will
be supplemented by information available within ICICI and collected through
questionnaire, interviews and plant visits. From the experience of the Export
Study, however, it would clearly appear that attempting to get detailed infor-
mation from each firm on aspects like cost of production by sub-products/
varieties, c.i.f. prices of imports (particularly if these are not imported)
will present difficult problems, Attempts will, therefore, be made to



ANNEX 12
Page 2
collect data on these aspects for major items, say, the most important sub-
products, important inputs and so on.
6.        ICICI proposes to take up automotive industry (including auto an-
cillaries) as the first subsector for investigation. Apart from this sector
(inclusive of ancillary industries) being one of the largest subsectors of
the engineering industry on ICICI's portfolio it offers an opportunity to
examine most, if not all, of the issues which relate to the engineering sector
as a whole, and which are of interest to ICICI, IBRD and GOI. There are
38 firms on ICICI's portfolio in this group. Firms in this subsector which
are not in ICICI's portfolio will also be covered. ICICI proposes to approach
SFCs and seek their assistance in obtaining information from their clients.
7.        The background information on this subsector is being collected.
The first draft of the questionnaire for automotive industry will be ready
by July 15, 1977 and will be sent to the Bank for comments. By August end,
the questionnaire may be finalized.
8.        While the study will necessarily draw upon firm-level information,
this will be used to form judgement on various aspects. Presentation of
information will be on an aggregative basis. Tentatively, ICICI expects
to complete the draft report by March end 1978. Selection of another sub-
sector will be made after some progress is made with this study.
April 29, 1977



ANNEX 13
TEE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVEBTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
REconomic Indicators for Proiects Apprve-d in 1975 (ICICI Asaistance Rs 5 Million)
(Inke  accordin  to ra          at _1l4 fliee)
Reoonsto  Narket   Iffeotivi Rate   Domeeestt/
Rate of   Rate of  _l Prot Rostig    Rource
L&MnD                     UAL91            Produot   3e omx~                         u0     e    -cost
Alkali & Chemicals       Raw          Veedioides                 70.0      28.0     -62.0    -47.6       3.80
%ELS                     Expansion   Transfomers                 50.0      35.0        8.5      8.0      7.50
Carbon Corpn.            NMe          Graphite Electroies        50.0      19.0     -47.0    -39.0       6.60
Alkali & Chemioals       New          Pharmaceutioals            45.0      19.4     -14,5    -10.6       5.96
Andhra Sugars            Expansion   Caustic Soda                42.0      23.0     -12.7      -8.5      3.10
W.G. Forge               Now          Machined Crankshafts       34.6      17.0       30.0     26,5      6.00
Perfect Circle Victor   Now           Piston rings               33.0      28.0       37.3     26.0      6.70
Lakchmi Machine          Expansion   Textile Machinery            30.6     25.1        6.3       4.4     6.30
NIRLON                   New          Rubber Conveyor-belting   29.7       13.1      -15.7    -11.3      7.22
A. P. Steele             NoM          Steel billets              29,4      11.7      -33.6    -22.0      8.51
IISCO                    New          C.I. Spun Pipes            28.0      17.0       -5.0     -4.0      7.90
Mahavir Spg.             New          Low and medium              27.0     14.0      -16,7    -13.3      6.75
counts yarn
ehbstar                  Nev          Tyree                       27.0     16.4        3.5       2,5     8.00
Orooca Tyres             Now          Tyres                       26.6     16.7       -3.2     -2.4      9.70
Rohtas Paper             Expansion   Paper                       26.2      10.0        7.6       5.0     7.30
Premier Auto              Expansion   Cars & Trucks               25.6     24,0       18.6      16.2     6.70
Xeltron                  New          Electronic Components       23.0     13.0        9.8       7.4     9.40
Seohasayee Paper         Expansion   Paper                       23.0      10.0      -20.0    -11,4      8.50
Chowgule Metals          New          Iron Ore Pellets           21.0      16.1         -         -      6.82
Rational Rayon           Now          Nylon Tyre Cord             21.0     13.0       23.0     16.0    11.80
Andhra Sugars            Now          Aspirin                     20.0    15.0       105.2      34.9     9,20
Baroda Rayon             New          Nylon Tyre Cord             19.5    12.2        30.0      19.0    12.00
Kothari (Madras)         New          Caustic Soda/Ammonium       19.0    17.5        18.7      14.7     7.80
Chloride
Lak.hai Auto Loone       Now          Textile Mchinery           18,0    11.0         15.3     11.8      7.80
N.K. Synthetios          Now          Acrylic Fibre              16.0    16.5        139.0      78.0    11.70
U.P. Cenento             Expansion   Cement                       16.0    11.5        76.0      25.0     7.60
D.C.M.                   New          Castings                   14,0    12.0         52.0     36,0      9.00
Greaves (Diesel)         New          Dietel Cginee              12.5    16,0         87.6     60.7      7.80
Nagarjuns Steele         New          Steel Strips                11.2    12.0        42.0      26.0     8.00
POeYha                   New          Tin Cane                    11.0    12.0        90.0      62.0    10.70
I/ The exchange rates for the period under review wer. t
Sanuary-Septoober U,S1S 1 = Rs 7.97
October-December U,S.5 1 - R 8,86
Econonio and Market Rsate. of Return for Projects Classified
According to Industry Groups
No. of
Projocts       Eoonomic             Market
wherl ERR   Rate of Return    Rate of Return
'S Greater Simpis  Weighted Simple  Weighted
Induetry               Projects than MRR  A'          A vAr     AZr  aver A La.
Cement                       1         1       16.0     16.0      11.5    11.5
Choje.ale &
Petrochemicals             9          8      34.4      27.2     17.5    15.2
Electrical
Equipment                   2         2       36.5     35.8      24.0    25.4
Automobile.                  2         2       29.3     28.3      26.0    2j5.5
Metal Produots (F)           6         5       23.0     21.2      14.3    14. 9
Metal Products (NF)          1         -       11.0     11.0      12.0    1 '.0
Machinery Mfg.               3         2       20.4     18.9      17.4    16.2
Paper                        2         2       24.6     23.8      10.0    1(.0
Textiles                    1          1      27.0      27.0      14.0    1c,0
Rubber Products              3         3       27.8     27.0      15.4    16.3
All Industries              30        26       27.3     22.6      16.6    1'.8
Febemo-y 22, 1977



ANNEX 13
Page   2
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Economic Indicators for Project Approved in 1976 (Jan.-June)
(Ranked According to their Internal Rate of Return at World Prices)
Economic  harket    Effective Rate         Domestic
New or                        Rate of  Rate of    of Protection         Resource
Name of Company                Expansion  Product             Return   Return    Balassa   Corden         Cost
7(T   15V   7W    77F (Rs/U.S. )
Shardlow India Limited           Exp.      Forgings            40.0      25.0        7.6        5.7       9.2
Kunal Engineering Ltd.           Exp.      Spindles            39.0      29.0        1.4        1.2       7.4
Escorts Limited                  New       Pistons & Piston
Pins              39.0      21.5        -4.3       -3.2       6.8
Mysore Cement Ltd.               New       Portland Cement   37.0        17.2      -15.9       -9.4       7.0
Karnataka Scooters Ltd.          New       Scooters            35.0      12.0       -4.6       -4.0       8.5
South India Viscose Ltd.         Exp.      Rayon Grade Wood
Pulp             34.0      22.0         9.6        6.9       6.0
Ashok Leyland Ltd.               Exp.      Heavy Commercial   9           8.5      -39.0      -37.0       6.7
Vehicles         2.          .        3.         3.           .
Jiyajeerao Cottm Mills Ltd.  Exp.          Soda Ash            28.4      12.0       52.0       24.4      10.0
(Saurashtra Chemicals)
Orissa Tyros Ltd.                New       Tyres & Tubes       26.7      16.7       -3.2       -2.4       9.7
Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd.    Exp.         Woollen/Worsted   25.0        22.8       42.0       30.0      11.0
Weaving
Atul Products Ltd.               Exp.      Caustic Soda        21.0       9.5       10.0        5.0       9.8
Shree fligvijay Woollen Mills  Exp.        Wool Tops           20.5      12.0       10.5         -        8.5
Precision Fasteners Ltd.         Exp.      High Tensile Nuts
and Bolts          19.5     15.5        65.0       43.0      10.7
Citurgia Biochemicals Ltd.    New          Citric Acid         18.4      16.0       50.9       40.7       9.2
Gajra Bevel Gears Ltd.           New       Crown Wheel &       17.5      10.0       16.4       11.0       9.5
Pinion sets &
Differential
gear kits
NGEF Ltd.                       ERp.       Transformers        16.3      17.5       44.0       34.0       9.3
Polymers Corp. of Gujarat        New       Methyl Methacryl-  9.0        13.0      173.0       82.0      13.0
Ltd.                                  ate Monomer
(MK A)
pQ, Of        EOVU'  M            hrket Rate
Projects where    or Return             of Return
No. of  ERB is greater Simple  Weighted Simple  Weighted
Industry           Projects   than MRR        Average Averag   Avzae  ivzrjat
Automobiles and
Automobiles Anci-
Ilaries            4            4          30.1    31.8        13.0    13.5
Cement                  1           1          37.0    37.0        17.2    17.2
Chemicals & Petro-
chemicals             5           4          22.2    23.6        14.5    15.8
(25.5)** (28.2)
Electrical Equipment  1             0          16.3    16.3        17.5    17.5
Machinery Manufacture 1             1          39.0    39.0        29.3    29.3
(Textile Machinery)
Metal Products          2           2          29.8    32.4        20.3    21.5
(Ferrous)
Rubber Products         1           1          26.6    26.6        16.7    16.7
Textiles                2           2          22.8    22.9        17.4    17.8
(Woollen)
17          15
_1/ The exchange rates for the period under review were: January - March
US$l = Rs 9.04;  April - June US$1 = Rs 9.15.
2/ Figures in brackets are excluding the methyl methacrylate monomer project.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 14
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Trend in Arrears (1965 to September 1976)
(Rs. in million)
Principal and Interest          Principal in krrears       Principal Outstanding
No. of        Principal               in Arrears                as X of Total Loans        as % of Total Loans
Year     Companies      Outstanding    Principal  Interest   Total            Outstanding                  Outstanding
1965        11             24.440           0.050    0.690    0.740               0.01                           5.29
1966        17             50.990           2.420    1.360    3.780               0.32                           6.79
1967        46            160.650          17.630    9.560   27.190               2.12                          19.38
1968        46            140.000          21.390   13.230   34.620               2.56                          16.83
1969        40            125.720          22.540   11.380   33.920               2.59                          14.47
1970        46            121.700          24.800   15.100   39.900               2.50                          12.40
1971        41             99.900          14.700   12.600   27.300               1.30                           8.90
1972        48            107.863          23.016   13.355   36.371               1.75                           8.19
1973        42            107.633          23.839   17.044   40.883               1.58                           7.14
1974        47            124.739          29.999   21.019   51.018               1.73                           7.20
1975        77            256.269           35.354   24.684   60.038              1.51                          10.97
September
1976       124            455 280          57 532   40 603   98.135               2.26                          17.96
Notes:
1. The following shows loans rescheduled by ICICI:
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   L973   1974   1975   Sept. 1976
Amounts rescheduled           7.1    8.6    5.1   19.4   13.7   11.8   33.3   16.8 .9.0   11.9   11.5              23.6
Principal outstanding
of loans scheduled         22.3   52.9   50.2   82.3   72.8   41.2   87.8   52.6   44.4   45.1   54.5             76.8
Principal outstanding
of loans in arrears
plus principal out-
standing of loans
rescheduled as %
of total loans out-
standing                   10.1%  13.8%  25.4%  26.7%  22.9%  16.6%  16.7%  12.2%  ].0.1%   9.8%  13.3%           20.9%
2. The deterioration of the arrears situation from 1967 to 1969 reflects the impact of the rupee
devaluation of 1966 (from Rs 4.76 = R1.00 to Rs 7.5 = US$1.00).
3. F'gures for principal outstanding, principal and interest in arrears as well as amount
rescheduled of foreign currency loans are calculated at current rates for 1975 ;.nd 1976.
February 22, 1977



ANNIEX 1.5
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Classification of Arrears as of September 30, 1976
(R. in thous..dsd
Principal in        Prinoipsl
Prinoipal and Intsrest           Arrears as %    Outstanding as
No. of    No. of       principal              in Arroars               of Total Loans  % of Total Loans
Projects  Co upanies   Outstanding  Zrin cipal  Interest   Total    Outstanding              Outstandinm
A.  AGO OF  841&2S
0 -  3 mDonths                           38         33          105,807        16,038      6,364   24,402           0.63                4.17
3 - 12 months                            67         56          199,001       22 675    16,094   38 769             0.89                7.85
12 - 24 months                            24         21           96,325        10,568      7,849   18,417           0.41                3.80
Over 24 monthe                             15         14          54,147         8,251      8,296   16,547            0.33               2.14
144        124         455,280        57,532    40,603   98,135             2.26              t7.96
B.  lNDUSTRIAL BREAKDOWN
Chemicals and Petrochemicals
(except Fertilisers)                     14         11           55,269         9,751      6,241   15,992           0.38                2.18
Electrioal Rtuipment                      32         27           80,759        10,724      5,535   16,259           0.42                3.18
Fertilisera and Pesticides                  3          3          25,946           145      3,282      3,427          0.01               1.02
Food Products (other than Sugar)           2           2           5,736         1,219         -       1,219          0.05               0.23
Glass, Pottery etc.                        11          a          27,292         3,054      2,930    5,984            0.12               1.00
Machinery Manufacture (other than
Electrical)                              12           8          13,520         1,633      1,193     2,826          0.06                0.53
Metals and Metal Products                 28          28          87,640        15,927     13,603   29,530           o.63                3.46
Printing and Publishing                     5          4           2,525           428         268       696          0.02               0.10
Pulp, Paper and Paper Products              7          7          43,633         3,498      2,278      5,776          0,14               1.72
Rubber Products                             3          3          24,171         1,162          15    1,177           0.05               0.95
Sugar                                      6           6          27,795         2,331      1,203      3,534         0.09                1.10
Textiles                                    6          6          34,214         3,145      2,132      5,277         0.12                1.35
Transport Equipment                         8          6          17,982         1,974         949    2,923          0.08                0.71
Wood, Cork and Hardboard                   2           1           2,543           140         -         140         Neg.                0.10
Miscellaneous                               5          4            6,255        2,401         974    3,375           0.09               0.25
144        124         455,280        57,532     40,603   98,135            2.26              17.96
C.  8iANDt3N BLUEZ2  OP GIENT                                                                                                                 12
Small                          ~~~        ~~~         ~~~12  10  31,875  1,784   1,844      3,628         0.07                12
Smedu                                     45          39          61,881        10,776      4,834   15,610           0.42                2.44
Medium                                     87         75         361,524        44,972     33,925   78,897            1.77              14.26
Total                                    144        124          455,280        57,532     40,603   98,135           2.26               17.96
D.  GZOGRAPHICIL BEAK_DOWN01
Andhra Pradesh                              6          4          35,655         9,752      7,795   17,547           0.                   14
Assam                           ~     ~    ~     ~    ~~~~~~2  2  18,000  668      492    1,160           0.02                0.71
Aihassr                                     2                          59          629        419    1,048           0,02                0.08
GuBarat                                    18         154         42551          4,161      2,284    6,445           0.17                1.60
Guaryat                                   46           4           50,455           45        267        312         Neg.                0.21
Haryanatak4 5                                          4          22,239         1,481      1,617    3,098           0,05                0.88
Karnataa                                    9          4          30,511         2,049      1,958    4,007           0.08                1.20
1:oAhya Pradesh                 ~    ~     ~     ~~4  3  15,605         156        535        691         0.01                0.62
,dhya Pr-desh                             33          27          60,196         7,617      2,532    t0,149          0.30               2.37
Rajasthan                       3 ~       ~~~~ 3        9,337           767        334    1,101           0.3.7
f~ilJooNad                                22          18         liO,619        14,352    13,853   2 8,205           0.57               4.30
'Jttar Pradesh                            14          14          65,464         8,423      4,765   13,188           0.34               2.58
Vaest Rengal                              18          16          23,426         4,569      2,067    6,636           0.18               0.92
Union Territories
Candiga Trh-   res2                                    2           5,962           952        601    1,553           0.04               0.23
Delhi                                      2           2          12,483         1,911      1,084    2,995           0,07               0.43
144        124         455,280        57,532    40,603   98,135            2.26              17.96
1/ Sall: Gross. f-ed assets up to Rs 2.5 olltioc.
Mediam: Gross fixed assets over Rs 2.5 million up to Rs 10 million.
Lrge:  Gross fixed assets over R. l0 million.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 16
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Analysis of Equitv Portfolio as of September 30, 1976
Ordinary shatt         Avcrrage
Average      Average        Market
ICICI   Net Profit  Dividend hate   Value
No. of    Invest-   on Share       cn Share      as %- of
Companies   ment      Uarital_    Capi tal       Book Value
(RS '000)                   7
Shares with market
value substantially
above cost to ICICI         52        28136      35.27         13.81        204.98
Unquoted shares of
profitable and
dividend paying
companies                   10         8797      24.8           4.04
Shaxes with satis-
factory prospects
with market value
slightly above or
below book value             55       30468       7.06          4.93         81.71
Shares of companies
under construetion
and start up k              58        39176        -             -           86.94
S'hares with market
value slightly above
or below book value          17        6682    (37.6)            -          101.34
Shares with market
v-lue substantially
below book value            46        26824    (25.10)           -           46.38
Unquoted shares of
unprofitable
companies &                  12        6782    (2S.5'            -
250      146865      12.93          3.91        105.09
Ordinary and Preference Shares
(Rupees in '000)
Ordinary             Preference
Book Value _ a        Book Value    f       Total    i
Good Investments            67401      45.9       56019      57.0   123420  50.4
Investments in compa-
nies under construc-
tion and start up          39176       26.7       11545      11.8    50721  20.7
Investments in compa-
nies in difficulties        40288      27.4       30631      31.2    70919  28.9
14686       100.0                TO1O5 100.O    2450601.0
/1  Includes 13 companies (book value Rs 40040)00) whose shares are not quoted-
Includes 1 company in liquidation.
Figures in brackets represents loss.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 17
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Income Statements, 1971-75 and Jan.-Sept. 1976
(Rs in million)
(Jan-Sept.)
1971   ~j22    1927       127     1        1976
INCOME
Interest on Temporary Investments
and Deposits                         4.63    6.14    7.85    8.94    7.98    5.81
Interest on Rupee Loans and
Debentures                          30.29   33,40   37.34   46.17   54.26   51.43
Interest on Foreign Currency
Loans                               72.28   88,34  115,28  133.95  164.50  126.59
Dividends                             6.78    8.19    7,57    6.50    8.01    7.42
Capital Gains                         7,59    6,92    6.79    3.93    6.05    5.64
Underwriting Commission &
Brokerage                            0,43    0.57    0,57    0,59    0.95    0.43
Guarantee Commission                  0.38    0.35    0,31    0,33    0.32    0.42
Other Income                          0.48    023      0.53    0.55    1.04    1,93
122.86  144.28  176.24  200.96  243.11  199.67
Salaries etc.                         3.88    4.64    5,56    6.34    9.09    6.79
Other Administrative Expenses         2.59    2,64    4.Q8    4.29    6,20    4.58
Interest & Discount on Debentures  6.77    9.02   14.81   20.92   30.68   26.70
Interest on Rupee Loans              19.68   19,63   18.53   19.16   18.84   15.46
Interest on Foreign
Currency Loans                     47.40   60.76   82.00   96.38  120.29   92.19
Interest on Deferred Dividends         -       -        -        -      0.14    0.30
Provisions for Doubtful Debtsl/    1.42    1,44         -        -       1.54     -
Bad Debts Written off                  -       1,12    0.07    1.94    0.80       -
31     74    125.05  149.03  187.58  146.02
Profit Before Taxes                  41.12   45.03   51.19   51.93   55.53   53 65
Less: Taxes                          18.32   21.73   26.24   25.29   23.34   26.50-
Add Back: Excess Provision for
Income Tax and Sur-Tax on
Previous Years                        -        -       -                2.85     -
Net Profit      22.80   23.30   24.95       .6    35.04   27.15
Dividend                              7.81   10.00   10.21   12.50   16.50        -
Dividend Pay-out Ratio (%)           34.2    42.9    40.9    46.9    47.1         -
Net Profit/Average Equity      (%)  13.3    11.7    11.3    10.2    11.4    11.6
Average Cost of Rupee
Borrowings (%)                       4.8     5,0      5.2      5.3     5.6      5.6
Average Cost of Foreign
Currency Borrowings (%)             6.5      7.0      7.5     8.0      7.1      6.9
Interest Spread                      3.1      2.8      2.8      2.9     2.5       2.5
Earnings per Share (R4-A             22,80   23.30   16,63   17.76   23.36   18.10
Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets (%)            0.4      0.4      0.5      0.5     0.6      0.5
Profit before Tax and Provi-
sioaa/Average Total A.asotu(%        2.8     2e7      2,6      2.3     2.1      2.2
Profit after Tax and Prov pioon.f
Average total Asset. (X) -            1.6     1.4      1.3      1.2     1.3      1.1
1/ These provisions relate to doubtful interest income only.
2/ Tax liability estimated at 50% of Profit.
3/ On increased capital in 1971 and 1973.
41 Provisions made for principal have also been taken into account when calculating
these ratios.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 18
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Balance Sheets, 1971-75 and September 30, 1976
(Rs in million)
D.csba' 31.                     Sept. 30,
2219    1972      i       1974    122i       1976
ASSETS
Temporar  In_vestments etc.15.8    14.0    14.6    15.8    10.3          10.3
Industrial Assistance
Shares                     169.0   173.5   184.1   196.5   222.9    245.1
Debentures                 125,1   130.3   143.3   152.5   150.3    146.6
Loans in rupees            283.4   311.3   jZ1.6   461.1  .0     667.1
577.5   615.1   699.0   810.1   923.2   1058.8
Loans in foreign           842.3   998.6  1134.1  1270.5  1785.8   1867.6
currencies
Fixed Assets (Net)           6.6      7.4    10.3    11.3    13.8        15.9
Current Assets and Advances
Cash and bank balance       56.6    95.0   146.6    84.3   140.8    348.2
Other assets and advances 78.0   106.1   119.4   147.8   160.5    198.2
1576.8  1836.2. 2124.0  2339.8  1034.4   3499.0
EQUITY  lND LIhBILITIES
Share capital               87.5   100.0   125.0   126.8   150.0    150..02,
Reserves surplusi/          97.6   113.1   128 .1   146.4   154.3    183 1-=
(and grants)             185.1   217.1   253.7   273.2   304-3    jj2t 
RuDee Borrowings
Debentures                 110.0   180.0   260.0   350.0   482.5    620.0
Government of India        297.2   274.4   246.6   219.3   191.7    170.5
IDBI                       141.0   fS1.0   171.5   130.0   215.1    20T.0
548.2   605 4   6.1      7492.    889.3    22L.
Foreign Currency Borrowings                        -
I3RD                       654.5   796.0   929.5  1035.8  1453.8   1493.7
IID                         13.0    10.1       7.3      4.0     1.0       0.7
KfW                        118.3   131.7   139.7   145.9   213.4    237.3
Swiss Bonds                  -        -       15.1    15.1   _27.S       _28-9
785.8   937.8  1221.6  1200.8  1695.7   1760.6
Current liabilities        57.7    79.9   100.6   116.5   145,1    413.2
jS76.8  1836.2  2124.0  2359.8  121Lj   3499.0
Guarantees outstanding    48.5    47.8    46.3    41.2    34.1           97.4
Debt/equity ratio as
defined in Bank Loan        7.6      7.8      7.8     8.0      7.9       8.7
Agreement
V Reserves upto December 31, 1974 include dividends to be paid
at the beginning of the following year from the current year's
earnings. From 1975, the practice of providing dividend out of
profits has been introduced.
2/ Tax liability estimated at 50% of profit.
Notes In 1975 and thereafter the figures of foreign currency loans have
been arrived at by converting each currency into rupees at the current
rate of exchange as against the past practice of conversibn at the central
rate of exchange at the time of disbursement.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 19
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Cash Flow Statements, 1971-75 nnd January-September, 1976
(Rs in million)
_q      nvDFLlDcember 21.  ___ Jan.-Sept.
~SOURCMS3ta                                     55        7 ,9i   ,J    __6_
Profit before tax                     41Q1   45.0   510.2   51, oI   584    53.6
Add back: non-cash charges
(Depreoiation, provision,
write off etc.)                      j,-j    2.        A0  _'-S.3             0.8L
Cash generation from operations    42.6 '1X  Z           '   3542   596       54.4
Increase in share capital             12,5   1205   2500    108   2301
Draw-down on foreign
currency borrowinge                 204.7  265.8  27i.3  293.5  36840   254i1 l/
Domestic currency borrowings          18,0   8907  9lGcO  11006  24001   139.3-
Loan oalleotionas
AgQiaiL   domestic currency         48,9   45.5   55n3   7105   5605    40,9
Agaiuift foreign currency           85oO  109o9  14601  1 561  241o4   201.7
Sales from portfolio:
Shares                             5.3   13.7  1ii7   6,7    6.4          403
Debentures                         9.4    5.9    3a3    1 .o    4.e       307
Sales from temporary investmsnts  '         1o8           -         5.5 
426o6  592.7  67`i .8  695.5 1004,6   698.4
Increase in fixed assets                       0.8    2,8    1 0O  309   2.6
Increase in temporary investments   5.1     -         0,6    1, 2
Disbursement of loanst
Domestio currency                   87.6   7303  114q.1  161&O  147.3   158.0
Foreign currency                   204.7  265.8  2T10O  293b5  371,1   254,1
Equity Investments:
Shares                              1703   i8,3   23.8   19.1   32.8    26,6
Debentures                           2.9  I11,    16,4   10,3    2,2        4.o
Repayments:                                             -
Against domestic currency           16(8   52,6   3603   39.4  102,0    3709
borrowings
Against foreign currency            76.4  106,2  13168  163&4  227.5   201,0
borrowings                                                                I
Paid to Government and Banks           6,1    8,4    3.9   20.9   3065    17ei
on account U.K. funds
Increase in receivablesv accrued   13.0   28.0   13.4   28.4    7.3    330O
income etc.
Less increase in payables,           (15,7) (22.2) (21,3) (15,9) (11.5) (286,4,)1
deferred items etc.
Payment of tax                        18.3   21,7   26,2   25.3   23,3    26.5
Payment of dividend                   '7.8   10OG            10,2   12.5    16,5
Increase (decrease) in short-        (13,7)  38,1-7  52,8  (62,3)  56.5   207,5
term investmento and cash
12  6  "U, >-'7 6t'arS  
Debt Service Coverage                  1.48   1.28   1.25   120   1.03
1/  Rs 258,6 million being application money received on debentures issued in
the month of September 1976 is included as an item of use of funds in
'Inerease in payables, deferred itnen  ote.9 are: Dot  uh   s a saurees
item against 'Domestic currency borrowings' column, as the same were
allotted onty on neteher 1, 1o7A.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 20
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF IUDIA LIMITED
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1976-80
(Rs million)
Actual          Estimated                  Proiected
1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979         1980
Approvals
Rupee loans                               173.9       200.6        398.9       390.0       430.0       480.0        530.0
Guarantees                                   -          30.8        60.3        20.0        20.0        20.0         20.0
Investments - Shares                       33.7        51.2         75.5        76.0        85.0        86.0         9:3.0
Debentures                   0.5        76.6          0.3        34.0        40.0        44.0        52.0
208.1       359.2       535.0       52(0.0      575.0       630.0        695.0
Foreign currency loans                    514.5       353.1        415.0       525.0       575.0       635.0        700.0
Total Approvals                     722.6       712.3       950.0    1,045.0    1,150.0    1,265.0    1,395.0
=   =  =z --=                                               -    -=_
Commitments
Rupee loans                               173.4       106.4        250.0       366.5       401.5       430.5        479.0
Guarantees                                   6.3         -          47.0        20.0        20.0         20.0        20.0
Investments - Shares                       17.7         61.0        46.0        75.0        81.5        86.5         90.5
Debentures                  11.0        29.8         32.0        15.0        35.0        40.0         43.0
208.4       197.2       375.0       476.5       538.0       577.0        632.5
Foreign currency loans                    376.6       349.1        480.0       525.0       570.0       630.0        690.0
Total Commitments                   585.0       546.3       855.0       L 5    1108.0    1,207.0    1,322.5
Disbursements
Rupee loans                               157.7       134.2        190.0       3113.0      403.5       432.0        488.0
Guarantees                                   0.1         0.1         -                       -            -           -
Investments - Shares                       19.0        32.3         33.5        49.0        55.5        60.5         70.0
Debentures                  10.3         8.2         31.5        18.5        33.5        39.5         47.0
187.1       174.8       255.0       385.5       492.5        532.0       605.0
Foreign currercy loans                    369.2       371.0        400.0       416.5       459.5       568.0        645.0
Total Disbursements                 556.3       545.8       655.0       802.0        952.0    1,100.0    1,250.0
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 21
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMNT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Foreign and Domestic Currency Resource Position, 1976-1980
Estimated     - - - - - - - - - Pro1ected - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1976        1977         1978         1979         1980       1977-80
I.  Foreign (US$ million)
Resources available for commit-
ment at beginning of year              88.8         39.3         87.9         39.5         79.4          -
Less:  New commitments                   53.3         58.3         63.3         70.0         76.7        268.3
Plus: New resources:
KfW                              3.8          3.8         3.8          3.8          3.8         19.2
UK                               -           6.1          6.1          6.1          6.1         24.4
Middle East/Other
Commercial                    -           17.0          5.0         20.0         10.0         52.0
IBRD                            -           80.0          -           80.0          -          160.0
Sub-total             3.8        106.9         14.9       109.9         19.9        251.6
Resources available for commit-
ment at end of year                    39.3         87.9         39.5         79.4         22.6          -
Number of months succeeding
year's commitments                      8           17            7           12            4
II.  Local (Rs million)
Resources available for disburse-
ment at beginning of year             156.6        249.1        280.2        256.1        249.4          _
Plus: Sources:
Internal cash generation-/             18.1         23.2         26.2         29.9        35.8        115.2
Collection on rupee loans              79.6        108.4        132.9        158.6       182.8        582.7
Sales from portfolio                   15.0         16.0         17.0         18.0         19.0        70.0
Increase in share capital               -           30.0         30.0         30.0        30.0        100.0
Debenture issues plus borrowings    277.5          279.5        304.5        330.0         95.0     1,309.0
Loan collections against UK funds-/  10.5           13.2         18.7         24.0         29.7         25.6
Sub Total       400.7       470.3        529.3        590.5        692.3      2,262.4
Less:  Requirements:
Loan disbursements                    190.0        318.0        403.5       432.0        488.0      1,641.5
Investment disbursements               65.0         67.5         89.0       100.0        117.0        373.5
Fixed asset acquisition                 7.0          6.5         10.0         11.6        12.5         41.6
Repayment of loans                     46.2         47.2         50.9         53.6        49.5        201.2
Redemption of debentures                -            -            -            -          50.0         50.0
Sub-total           308.2       439.2        553.4        597.2        718.0      2,307.8
Resources available for disburse-
ment at end of year                   249.1        280.2        256.1        249.4        223.7
1/ Net of taxes and dividends.
2/ Payments made to GOI and banks out of counterpart funds from IDBI. Thus, as maturities of borrowings
and loans don't match, ehie is a source of local currency funds.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 22
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Income Statements, 1976-80
(Rs million)
Actual          Estimated           _        Proiected
1974       1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
Income
Interest on temporary investments
and deposits                             8.940       7.980       9.262      14.349      14.793      13.608      13.728
Interest on loans and debentures         180.120    218.160    246.656    283.378    329.110    381.535    437.031
Dividends                                   6.500       8,010     10.770      12.750      15.120      17.700      20.810
Capital gains                               3.930      6.050       5.000       5.500       6.000       6.500       7.000
Underwriting commission and brokerage    0.590          0.950      0.853       1.370       1.432       1.616       1.840
Guarantee commission                        0.330      0.320       0.541       1.011       1.305       1.358       1.421
Other income                                0.550       1.040      1.800       2.000       2.200       2.400       2.600
Total Income                      200.960    243.110    274.882    320.358    369.960    424.717    484.430
Expenses
Salaries etc.                               6.340      9.090      10.800      12.780      14.900      17.500      20.600
Other administrative expenses               4.290       6.200      7.500       9.000      10.800      13.000      15.500
Interest and commitment charges
on borrowings                          136.460    169.950    189.657    226.497    264.910    302.647    344.609
Other expenses                              1.940       2.$40      1.640       1.993       2.442       2.907       3.460
Total Expenses                    149.030    187.580    209.597    250.270    293.052    336.054    384.169
Profit before tax                          51.930     55.530      65.285      70.168      76.908      88.663    100.261
Provision for tax                         25.290      20.490      30.064      31.830      33.166      39.681      44.604
26.640     35.040      35.221      38.338      43.742      48.982      55.657
Provisions against doubtful debts           3.500       5.000      5.000       5.000       5.000       5.000       5.000
Profit after tax and provisions 1/         23.140      30.040     30.221      33.338      38.742      43.982      50.657
Appropriations
Dividends                                  12.500      16.500     16.500      17.188      19.938      22.000      23.375
Other reserves and unappropriated
profits                                10.640      13.540      13.721      16.150      18.804      21.982      27.2<82
23.140      30.040     30.221      33.338      38.742      43.982      50.657
Ratios
Interest spread %                           2.9        2.5         2.5         2.4         2.4         2.5         2.5
Divident payout %                          46.9        47.1       46.8        44.8        45.6        44.9        42.0
Net profit/average equity %                10.2        11.4       11.3        11.2        11.2        11.4        11.5
Profits before tax/average
total assets %                           2.3         2.1         2.0         1.9         1.9         2.0         2.0
Administrative expenses/average
total assets %                           0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7
Profits after tax and provisions/
average total assets % 1/                1.0         1.1         0.9         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.0
1/ This profit after tax and provisions is underestimated, because of the time of write-off about half of this
would be recovered through tax deductions (see para 5.03, footnote 2).



ANNEX 23
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Balance Sheets, 1975-80
(Rs million)
Actual          Estimated                 Projected
1974       1975        1976         1977        1978        1979        1980
Assets
Cash and short-term deposits               84.5       140.8       209.3      232.6       201.2        237.5       214.9
Receivables, accrued income etc.          147.6       160.5       176.6       198.0       224.3       249.7       280.2
232.1       301.3      385.9        430.6       425.5       487.2       495.1
Temporary investments                        15.8        10.3        12.3        12.3        12.3        12.3        12.3
Outstanding loans:
Foreign currency loans                 1,270.5    1,785.8    1,944.9    2,050.9    2,159.6    2,240.0    2,360.2
Rupee loans                               461.1       550.0       656.9       859.2    1,119.5    1,381.7    1,673.4
Outstanding investments:
Shares                                    196.5       222.9       250.4       296.4       351.5       411.3       483.7
Debentures                                152.5       150.3       176.8       189.6       216.8       250.2       289.3
Total loans and investments               2,080.6    2,709.0    3,029.0    3,396.1    3,847.4    4,283.2    4,806.6
Fixed assets (net)                         11.3        13.8        19.2        23.7        31.3        40.0        50.0
Total Assets                           2,339.8    3,034.4    3,447.2    3,864.3    4.318.9    4                 5,368.0
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities                       116.5       145.1       171.7       189.2       211.9       238.5       266.4
Foreign currency borrowings             1,200.8    1,695.7    1,835.6    1,951.7    2,076.2    2,223.2    2,379.6
Rupee loans                               749.3       889.3    1,120.6    1,352.9    1,606.5    1,882.9    2,178.4
1,950.1    2,585.0    2,956.2    3,304.6    3,782.7    4,106.1    4,558.0
Share capital                             126.8       150.0       150.0       180.0       210.0       240.0       270.0
Reserves against doubtful debts            22.0        27.0        32.0        37.0        42.0        47.0        52.0
Other reserves and unappropriated
profits                                 124.4      127.3        137.3      153.5       172.3        194.3       221.6
273.2       304.3      319.3        370.5       424.3       481.3       543.6
Total Liabilities and Equity            2,339.8    3,034.4    3,447.2    3,864.3    4,318.9    4,825.9    5,368.0
Guarantees outstanding                       41.2        34.1        79.4       132.3       134.5       139.0       144.6
Ratios
'..TD debt/equity ratio                 9.66        9.45       10.56       10.24      10.39         9.86        9.55
Debt/equity ratio (Bank definition)    8.00           7.94        8.73        8.58       8.42         8.16        8.10
Current ratio                             2.1         2.1         2.3         2.3         2.0         1.9         1.8
Note:   In 1975 and thereafter the figures of foreign currency loans have been arrived at by converting
each currency into rupees at the current rate of exchange as against the past practice of conversion
at the central rate of exchange. The debt/equity ratio calculations for 1974, however, are based on
current exchange rates. The calculation of the debt/equity ratios excludes reserves against doubtful
debt from the equity base.
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 24
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1976-80
(Rs million)
Actual     Estij-ated                Rxc'ected
1975         1976         1977         1978          1979         1980
Sources
Profit before tax                       58.4         65.3          70.2         76.9         88.7         100.3
Add back non-cash charges
(Depreciation write off)               0.9          1.6          2.0           2.4          2.9          3.5
Cash generation from operations         59.3         66.9          72.2         79.3         91.6         103.8
Increase in share capital               23.1          -            30.0         30.0         30.0          30.0
Drawdown on loans:
Foreign currency borrowings          368.0        400.0        416.5         459.5        568.0        645.0
Rupee borrowings                     240.1        277.5        279.5         304.5        330.0        395.0
Loans and debentures converted
into equity                            -            4.0          8.0          11.6         12.3         16.4
Loan collections:
Foreign currency loans               241.4        241.0        310.5         350.8        487.6        524.8
Rupee loans                           56.5         79.6        108.4         132.9        158.6        182.8
Sales from portfolio:
Shares                                 6.4         10.0         11.0          12.0         13.0          14.0
Debentures                             4.3          5.0           5.0          5.0          5.0           5.0
1,004.6      1,084.0      l.241.l      1,385.6
Uses
Increase in fixed assets                 3.1          7.0           6.5         10.0         11.f          13.5
Disbursements of loans:
Foreign currency loans                34.1        400.0        416.5         459.5        548.0        645.0
Rupee loans                          147.3        190.0        318.0         403.5        432.0        488.0
Equity investments:
Shares                                32.8         33.5         49.0          55.5         60.5         70.0
Debentures                             2.2         31.5         18.5          33.5         39.5          47.0
Equity investment due to conversion   -               4.0           8.0         11.6         12.3          16.4
Repayments:
Rupee loans                           42.0         46.2         47.2          50.9         53.6          49.5
Foreign currency borrowings          258.0        260.1        300.4         335.0        421.0        488.6
Redemption of rupee debentures          60.0          -             -            -            -            50.0
Increase in receivables etc.             7.3         19.4          22.2         27.1         26.2          31.3
Less increase in payables etc.         (11.5)       (22.8)        (17.5)       (22.7)        (26.6)       (27.9)
Payment of tax                          23.3         30.1          31.8         33.2         39.7          44.6
Payment of dividend                     12.5         16.5          17.2         19.9         22.0          23.4
Increase (decrease) in cash etc.        56.5         68.5           23.3    _      4)        36.3       _22. 0
0            10084.0      1,241.1      1,385.6       1 696.1      1,916.8
Debt Service Coverage                  1.03         1.13          1.22         1.25         1.31          1.21
February 22, 1977



ANNEX 25
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTNENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Twelfth Loan
(US$ million)
Amount            %
1978    January - March                                 0.2           0.3
April - June                                   1.0            1.3
July - September                               3.1            3.9
October - December                             4.7            5.8
9.0          11.3
1979    January  March                                 5.0           6.3
April - June                                   5.5            6.8
July - September                               6.0            7.5
October - December                             6.5            8.2
23.0          28.8
1980    January - March                                 7.0           8.8
April - June                                   7.5            9.3
July - September                               8.0           10.0
October - December                             6.0            7.5
28.5          35.6
1981    January - March                                5.5            5.8
April - June                                   5.0            6.3
July - September                               4.5            5.6
October - December                             2.5            3.2
17.5          21.9
1982    January - March                                 2.0           2.4
80.0         100.0
February 22, 1977






THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
ORGANIZATION CHART
(AS ON JUNE 30, 19761
| G-EAL METI.. OF -HA R-.
(AS DP..EATO1I O
<              | 6~~~EORRETART 0                   001S                 ARRIODAST GENERAL 
ROASRR S'AAL ASCISET                                     ACOULTANT           SANDOER
(H.R. HIRWADI       |(CV. AIDRHAI                        lEE K11              (HI . KCHARII
16  3HRGAA1      M HAfSAI5A 3EDORODIC          DEFSAER-          DEPAHDHRT         MANTEDNL   )OSHO                                                                                                               ____C 3HAH_____R AO)  __ PEDDARI    CH EF  ___D MELLO_
SIAISIAS        OEPAODORSR                                                    RHANOShcsss             OFFICES                               SASOACAS Nl>YsSlo<8l            CDHEODRHIOATIO1S       AADIE        SEERADIDOR          EARDHE1         DEPARTMENT        SECTION      OFEASTUEST                     REEAERSIFLE
AICINIDI,  AEFADERDOD  OOEARDRSNT                                         DEFARDOENT                     OFFARDORCE~~~~M  ..-T
0(1           I'           14               1711(01                              101                 RI 101  1101                          (0.)                1101CI(I(4                                                            (SI           (RI              10110110
CHIEF            AEF~."IO-R   CIE               FFC -            JOIT               MA.OR                --N-E   M1ANASER   CRIE.             0ZFF00S                                 OFFICE-        "OIR         -SIR                  DEPOD         0-S-DOT                           CE              RE
(00 HORASCAI    IL-OA-AS    OS --EAR-TI   I---HH                .. -RRTA.D        I. SHA-DA-WRRAN    IC OTAIH     D  HA.   ITS E-OARI   ISA JOA-EHI              I0  -RELLI IN         -CAH-       -S.SAI IOAND-AE-ASAR                ERR-AR        IS.H H  OR-F.    01F -)
-RNAOI                     (A.-ENA-1D  IN-T H A DALL                                                                                                                 T.-DAI       VOS  EDTA)                                                       (AC 05-01       liDT EAHI-D






BRD 3873R
72                             -                                                                                         , E  RAN   ABA6AANA                 JANUARY '975
1_v                                     A--I\t TB E T 0
\                                t              C        H      I     N       A               t    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~ ~~~~ N D i A IV  5 C * A .VN  
e          )         .S XV6ALJ     _,.GAL
s   g  :.  _   :                k s                              (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T    I   B   E  T)
B-'                                                                                                          Ti_    -..
V,~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/               .  ,,~~~~~~D, DLH I                                                                                              A,t_  ,   ,   <  
.   .   ,   S,_   4   (   t\.\  .1R;m!B BNH U TAN  BRO' N,,
\^1  JAIPUR   ,GRAHC                                        ~     A'$ '-
C  H     I     N ~~HA R\BGBN
[  -  -  1  << '+"'' ' tt <2<-0> \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  BANGLADESH                                                                  4g
SINDRI    9            NDAN              03A0A
L            ^     v             [,,       !       - R . D~~~~~~~~~~~DE S HlRASEP?WS                     ,i! 1   . 
,  A I>  9   ,  ;,A  /,,,, *) _,,L  8HILAI   t HIRAKUD 
-0          - -- '                                                   /'i  \     ZB O3 'S    A
'AA
-20-               A TROM BAY                        ;2'-
90U8AY SEO       SD o H A :> A                                                                                  oR S. .    8   _ .}   S Z  ef  -
POONA                   F                 s        z     J     -                                rnr;rl
's.                 -'B EEL GA UM    .                     ,I N   D I A
>>  ,>:          -                   ,:v                ~~~~LOCATION OF MAJOR INDUSTRIL CENTERS
_ ~  ~ ~ GC 66 A>                                                                                                             AA  ~U
>   f   8HADRAVATri               \                                     ,D    I,,dUSErTEJI 9enteK
sb                                                       M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Steel Ffants
t.4RiiA-fXFtHC  <   *   \                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Fortifizet   PlarIts
9   '.  BANGALORE             M i    *---2t. tFiADRAS                   A     BAGnts
m   j           _        ,                                    _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stote rr U-ion Terr,to,y   130-4a,.is
;.-'_                                                                               Int-ntional BrCndAris
'. '       -1    ~~NEYVELI:
FACT;VOL '\~AO _                    A L                       A
~~~~i CttH}N\S:"t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,A, MES -
L G/3,ANKA                         IOD                30          0
BOMBAY  !A TROMBAY  I                 ,4YA   :=       0         4D0         6o          a
!                            ti~~~~~~~~9LOM5fTIR   r
70-                                                                                                                         90,~~AR1~A,'A.' ~ A6.o



