Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14635
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1823-YDR)
JUNE 21, 1995
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Yemen
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 1823-YDR
Implementation Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...................................................... ii
Evaluation Summary   ...................................................    iii
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction   ...................................................                                            1
Project Objectives  . ...............................................  2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  .................   2
Project Sustainability   .       .............................................  5
IDA Performance .           .............................................    .  6
Borrower Performance .............................................. 7
Achievment of Project Objectives and Assessment of Outcome  .................                                 7
Future Operation  . ................................................  8
Key Lessons Learned  .           .............................................  8
PART TWO: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables:
1. Summary of Assessments  .............                       ............................  9
2. Related IDA Credits .1............................................ 1
3. Project Timetable . ............................................. 13
4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................  13
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .............................  14
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation  .................................   14
7. Studies Included in Project  ...........                   ............................  14
8A. Project Costs  . ...............................................   15
8B. Project Financing   .          ............................................  15
9. Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................   15
10. Status of Legal Covenants  ............                    ............................  16
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .........................  17
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ......................................   17
13. Bank Resources: Missions ........................................    18
Appendix  I:   IDA  Amendments to Credit Agreement ............   I   ................  20
Appendix II:   IDA  Letter confirming decision to close the Credit  .....................  21
Map - IBRD 26334
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Yemen
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 1823-YDR
Implementation Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ........................................................ii
Evaluation Summary   ...................................................                                                iii
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction   . ..................................................                                           1
Project Objectives  . ...............................................  2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  .................   2
Project Sustainability   .       .............................................  5
IDA  Performance .          .............................................    .  6
Borrower Performance .............................................. 7
Achievment of Project Objectives and Assessment of Outcome  .................                                 7
Future Operation  . ................................................  8
Key Lessons Learned  .           .............................................  8
PART TWO: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables:
1. Summary of Assessments  .............                       ............................  9
2. Related IDA Credits .1............................................  1
3. Project Timetable . ............................................. 13
4. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................  13
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .............................  14
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation  .................................   14
7. Studies Included in Project  .......................................  14
8A. Project Costs  . ...............................................   15
8B. Project Financing . ............................................. 15
9. Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................   15
10. Status of Legal Covenants  ............                    ............................  16
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .........................  17
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ......................................   17
13. Bank Resources: Missions  ............                     ............................  18
Appendix  I:   IDA  Amendments to Credit Agreement .............................  20
Appendix II:   IDA  Letter confirming decision to close the Credit  .....................  21
Map - IBRD 26334
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- ii -
Republic of Yemen
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 1823-YDR
Implementation Completion Report
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Highway Project in the Republic
of Yemen, for which Credit 1823-YDR in the amount of SDR13.1 million (US$16.8 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board on June 17, 1987. The Credit Agreement was signed on September 9, 1987 and
declared effective on February 9, 1988. The original credit was made to the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen which merged with the Yemen Arab Republic on May 22, 1990.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1993, two years later than the original closing date of
December 31, 1991. Final disbursement took place on January 17,1995. The remaining undisbursed balance
of SDR8.475 million (US$13.356 million equivalent) as of April 30, 1995 has been cancelled. Cofinancing
was provided by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Terje Wolden (Task Manager) and Harold Young (consultant) of the Private
Sector Development and Infrastructure Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region
and reviewed by Alastair J. McKechnie (Division Chief) and Gianni Brizzi (Project Adviser).
4.    The preparation of the ICR began during the final supervision mission in January 1994. A completion
mission was not made due to the civil war in Yemen later in 1994. The ICR is based on information
contained in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, material in
the correspondence files, internal IDA documents, and on interviews with Bank staff involved in supervision.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by presenting views reflected in supervision mission
Aides-Memoires, and by preparing its own assessment of various implementation issues and communicating
them to IDA. Although the Borrower/Implementing Agency did not provide written comments on the report,
IDA was verbally informed that they concur with the report's findings and conclusions.






- iii -
Republic of Yemen
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 1823-YDR
Implementation Completion Report
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) merged
on May 22, 1990, to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY). The subject of this report is the fifth credit in a
series of IDA highway credits to the former PDRY. The ROY took over responsibility for the project
following unification of the two Yemens on May 22, and this slowed project's implementation. The project
was also adversly affected by the Gulf Crisis, and by the complex north/south relationship that resulted in a
very slow integration of northern and southern institutions. This led to a tendency toward centralizing decision
making in Sana'a, which again led to deteriorating project performance in the south in several sectors. In May
1994 unification was challenged and civil war broke out, which resulted in additional delays and difficulties.
All these factors made it extremely difficult to achieve the project's objectives, and the implementation
problems could not be overcome even with changes to the Credit Agreement.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objective of the project was to continue rational development of the road system.
Following up on the Fourth Highway Project, this Fifth Highway Project specifically aimed at: (a) completing
the establishment of an effective road maintenance organization; (b) creating an efficient, well-trained Highway
Authority work force; and, (c) creating a sound basis for planning the future development of the road system.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the proposed project was comprised of: (a) a three-year time slice of the
routine and periodic maintenance program, and procurement of: (i) routine maintenance equipment, and (ii)
buildings and equipment for a new central workshop near Aden; (b) the reconditioning of a training center
and the provision of training equipment and materials; (c) further technical assistance for implementing the
road maintenance and training programs; (d) the preparation of a road master plan; and (e) the repairing of
flood-damaged roads.
4.    The Credit Agreement was changed twice. The first change was approved on September 19, 1989 to
limit the financing of periodic maintenance to the resurfacing of the Am Ayn-Naqaba Road Project under the
road maintenance component, and to finance the repair of flood damages on the transport system, not only
the highway system. The second amendment, on July 9, 1991, covered changes in the Borrower's address
from Aden to Sana'a and in the names of ministries and departments after unification. A detailed desciption
of the amendments to the Credit Agreement is given in Appendix I.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The road maintenance program that formed the basis of the Fifth Highway Project was appraised under
the Fourth Highway Project, which covered the maintenance program's start-up phase of about one year. The
Fifth Highway Project provided the balance of components of the road maintenance program. Credit
effectiveness was held up for approximately two months because of government delays in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness, namely: (i) the signing of a contract for the employment of a consultant to provide
technical assistance for road maintenance and training programs; (ii) the signing of a contract with a



- iv -
consultant for a Road User Charges Study; and (iii) the selection of a consultant to carry out the Master Plan
Study.
6.    The first consultant for technical assistance for road maintenance did not perform satisfactorily due
to poor planning and inadequate language capabilities. A second consultant failed to provide effective
maintenance management and training and was suspended from further services. Largely because of the Gulf
Crisis, no further selection of consultants was made.
7.    The Road User Charges Study was completed with some complications because of difficulties in the
cooperation with the employer, the Ministry of Construction and Housing (MOCH). The Road Master Plan
Study was postponed by the Government in 1992 after it rejected a request for price adjustment from the
consultant. Also transportation patterns were impossible to predict due to the Gulf crisis, population changes,
unification, and the planned expansion of Aden Port. IDA agreed to replace the Road Master Plan Study with
a Road Maintenance and Organization Study to determine maintenance and rehabilitation needs and propose
organization and management changes to implement a multi-year road maintenance program covering 2,500
km of main roads in ROY.
8.    The repair of flood-damaged roads was awarded through a negotiated contract to a state-owned
construction company, the Public Corporation for Road Construction (PCRC), and the works were successfully
completed in late 1988. The scattered locations and emergency nature of the works were thought to justify
using PCRC to simplify the management of the construction works and avoid delays in procurement.
9.    With regard to the three-year (1987-89) time slice of the routine and periodic maintenance program,
it was agreed that this work would consist of the rehabilitation of 173 km between Am Ayn and Naqabah.
After an international competitive bidding process that included contractors from Germany and China, the
work was awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, which was PCRC. The works were supposed to start in
January 1992. An IDA supervision mission that visited the construction site in May/June 1993 identified severe
implementation problems. The contractor had not mobilized fully, no work had been undertaken on site, the
supervision consultant had not been provided housing on site and was living in Aden, a four-hour drive from
the project midpoint. The contractor had no work programs and could not give specific dates for
commencement of the physical work. The problems were compounded by the fact that much deterioration had
taken place along the road since the design work was carried out in 1989, and the design was, thus, in need
of revisions. These weaknesses were pointed out to the Government, and the necessary actions specified by
the mission. Shortly after, in September 1993, a follow-up supervision mission again found no sign of
construction work except that a few pot-holes had been filled at the beginning of the project the day the
mission arrived. Execution of works was estimated to take a minimum of two years if carried out by a
contractor experienced in resurfacing of roads using surface dressing, and a further extension, to December
31, 1995, was expected necessary. With this two-year extension, more than eight years would have elapsed
since Board approval, and there would be a good chance that further extensions would be required to complete
the project; IDA, therefore, decided to not extend the December 31, 1993, closing date.
10.   Procurement of maintenance plant and equipment for the six workshops financed under the Fourth
Project proceeded without interruption. Construction of the main mechanical workshop at Aden was delayed
because of unification, the Gulf Crisis and a slow preparation of tender documents, and the project was not
tendered before the credit closed. However, the Government and IDA decided that the workshop would be
considered in a new road rehabilitation project once maintenance capability was improved.
11.   Project implementation is rated as unsatisfactory, as little was accomplished either on the routine and
periodic road maintenance component, or on training and establishing of a road maintenance organization. The
only item successfully completed was the repairs to flood-damaged roads.



v -
Key Lessons Learned
12.    The main findings and lessons learned under this fifth project are listed below.
*      After the major political event of the unification of the northern and southern parts of
Yemen, the consequences of the Gulf crisis, and non-compliance with the legal
covenants, project design should have been reassessed and the project restructured to
ensure continued relevance and borrower commitment.
*     The Association should not finance equipment, supplies and workshops until sufficient
maintenance capabilities have been established, and sufficient funding for road
maintenance has been made available to use the equipment.
*     More care could be given to the process of selecting qualified consultants for technical
assistance assignments that are critical to achieving project objectives and sustainability
of the project; proposals should be evaluated mainly on technical quality, experience of
staff and reputation of firms, with less weight given to the price offered. Borrowers may
need greater assistance from IDA early in the process of short-listing firms to eliminate
firms with little or no experience in the field of the assignment.
*     Parastatal contractors should only be allowed to bid for civil works contracts in
competition with the private sector when their operations are managerially and financially
autonomous.






- 1 -
Republic of Yemen
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 1823-YDR
Implementation Completion Report
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) merged
on May 22, 1990 to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY). The subject of this report is the fifth credit in a series
of IDA highway credits to the former PDRY. The ROY took over responsibility for the project following
unification of the two Yemens on May 22, 1990, and this slowed implementation. The project was also adversly
affected by the Gulf Crisis, and the complex north/south relationship that resulted in very slow integration of
the northern and southern institutions. This led to a tendency to centralize decision making in Sana'a, which led
to deteriorating project performance in the south. In May 1994 unification was challenged and civil war broke
out, which resulted in additional delays and difficulties. These factors made it extremely difficult to achieve
the project's objectives.
4      The Fifth Highway Project was virtually a second phase of the Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1617-
YDR, US$14.4 million) appraised only a year earlier. Its main purpose was to complete the maintenance
program identified under the previous highway project, particularly to complete the establishment of a force-
account road maintenance organization. The Fourth Project had covered the maintenance program's start-up
phase of about one year, and included construction/reconstruction of buildings and workshops, equipment and
spare parts, and technical assistance. The Fifth Project provided the balance of components of the Road
Maintenance Program started under the Fourth Project.
6.    The project was appraised in December 1985, but because of civil disturbances in January 1986 it was
reappraised in June 1986. During reappraisal two new items were added to the project: (i) a new central
workshop in Aden because of structural failures on the old workshop; and (ii) preparation of a Road Master
Plan. In addition, the equipment components had to be increased as all of the original equipment earmarked
for the project was either lost during the disturbances or assigned to other urgent tasks.
7.    Given the start-up delays under the Fourth Project, it was decided that the engagement of consultants
for technical assistance in setting up the road maintenance and training programs, and the road user charges
study, would have to be completed before negotiations. Furthermore an acceptable financial plan was requested
to be in place prior to credit effectiveness as the envisaged cofinancing had not yet been firmed up, despite IDA
efforts to interest possible co-donors.
8.    At negotiations in April 1987 the PDRY delegation requested emergency assistance to repair roads
damaged by recent floods; a post-appraisal/negotiation IDA mission was immediately sent to PDRY to verify
costs, review contract documents, and agree on implementation arrangements. As a result, the credit was raised
from the originally proposed amount of US $11.0 to US $16.8 million, and negotiations were concluded in mid
May 1987.
9.    Since, despite the delay in negotiations, the Government did not meet the IDA's conditions for
negotiations, it was agreed that conditions of credit effectiveness would include: (i) signing a contract with



-2 -
consultants to undertake the training and road maintenance programs; (ii) selection of consultants to undertake
the road master plan study; and (iii) signing of a contract for the road user charges study.
Project Objectives
10.   The primary objective of the project was to continue the rational development of the road system.
Following up on the Fourth Highway Project, Fifth Highway Project specifically aimed at:
(a) completing the establishment of an effective road maintenance organization;
(b) creating an efficient, well-trained, Highway Authority (HA) work force under the MOCH;
and
(c) creating a sound basis for planning the future development of the road system.
11.   To achieve these objectives, the project was comprised of:
(a) a three-year time slice of a routine and periodic maintenance program, including procurement of:
(i) routine maintenance equipment and (ii) buildings and additional workshop equipment for a new
central workshop near Aden;
(b) reconditioning of a training center and its facilities and provision of training equipment and
materials;
(c) continuation of technical assistance for the implementation of road maintenance and training
programs;
(d) preparation of a road master plan and a road user charge study; and
(e) repair of flood damaged roads.
12.   The Credit Agreement was changed twice. The first change was approved on September 19, 1989 to
limit the financing of periodic maintenance to the resurfacing of the Am Ayn-Naqaba Road Project under the
road maintenance component (Part A (1)), and to finance the repair of flood damages on the transport system,
not only the highway system. The second amendment, on July 9, 1991, covered changes in the Borrower's
address from Aden to Sana'a and in the names of ministries and departments after unification. A detailed
desciption of the amendments to the Credit Agreement is given in Appendix I.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The Ministry of Planning was designated as the representative of the Borrower, but implementation of
the project was delegated to the Ministry of Construction and Housing and its Highway Authority (HA) in Aden,
which were originally responsible for constructing and maintaining paved roads in the PDRY. After unification
responsibility for the project was transferred to the Ministry for Construction and Housing (MOCH) at Sana'a
in the ROY. It is worth noting that no attempt was made by the Government to merge the two public road
administrations under a common management. The HA in the south and its contracting arm, the Public
Corporation for Road Construction (PCRC) were merged and remained based in Aden. However, responsibility
for all road operations in the south, including foreign assisted projects and road maintenance, was transferred



to the road administration in Sana'a, the General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB) soon after
unification.
14.   Credit effectiveness was delayed of two months because of Government delays in meeting the conditions
of effectiveness, namely: (i) the selection of a consultant to carry out the Master Plan Study; (ii) the signing
of a contract with a consultant for a Road User Charges Study; and (iii) the signing of a contract for the
employment of a consultant to provide technical assistance for road maintenance and training programs.
15.   A contract for technical assistance for road maintenance was signed on December 16, 1987. Partly
because of lack of housing accommodation in PDRY, the consultant mobilized about six months late. In March
1989 an IDA supervision mission found this technical assistance program deficient in planning and language
abilities. Shortly thereafter, the consultant was terminated; a new firm was appointed in May 1990. However,
the second consultant failed to provide effective maintenance management and was suspended from further
services. A third firm to complete the assignment was never selected, partly because of the Gulf crisis.
Studies
16.   The Road User Charges (RUC) Study was carried out by the same consultant who submitted the
successful proposal for the Master Plan Study. There were, however, serious disagreements between the
Government and the consultant over the study's execution, with the consultant claiming that the study's scope
had been substantially altered and expanded. The firm requested an adjustment to its fee to cover what it called
"fundamental changes." This adjustment was eventually paid, and the study completed and accepted by IDA,
but its reconmmendations, which related only to the former PDRY, were not implemented after unification.
17.   After the dispute over the RUC study, the consultant requested changes in its contract for the Road
Master Plan Study. This led to a 12-month delay, and a disagreement on fees for the latter study. Because of
cost increases and changes in the exchange rates during the contract negotiation period, the consultant requested
a supplement to its initial proposal; the Government rejected that request, and no contract for the Master Plan
was signed before unification. After unification the Government changed its priorities, and in 1992 it decided
to postpone the Road Master Plan, as transportation patterns were difficult to predict due to the Gulf crisis,
population changes, and uncertainty about the planned expansion for the port of Aden.
18.   Given these concerns, IDA initiated two independent but related actions to bring attention back to
establishing a road maintenance capability in Yemen and secure adequate and uninterrupted flow of funds for
this purpose:
(i)  It agreed to replace the preparation of a Road Master Plan for the PDRY (and other TA under the
project) with a Road Maintenance and Organization study for the whole of Yemen (covering about
2,500 km of main roads in ROY). The study aimed at determining the maintenance and
rehabilitation needs and priorities in the sector over the next 5-10 years, and review the needs for
organizational and management changes in GCRB to improve their implementing capabilities and
capacities. The terms of reference and the request for proposals letter for this study were reviewed
and cleared by IDA for funding under the Fifth Highway Project. However due to IDA's decision
to close the credit, it was agreed with the Government that this study should form part of the next
transport project to be financed by IDA.
(ii) As part of the preparation of the proposed Safir-Hadramout Road Project that started in 1992 and
the proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project, the Government also agreed with IDA to establish
a new Road Maintenance Fund under a National Highway Board responsible for financing road



- 4 -
maintenance and rehabilitation all over Yemen. The Government has agreed as part of the
negotiations for the Safir - Hadramout Road Project to introduce road user charges (fuel surcharge)
sufficient to finance expected annual road maintenance and rehabilitation expenditures. This would
establish a more sustainable system for preservation of the road assets in Yemen.
Equipment and Civil Works
19.   Procurement of equipment and construction of workshops proceeded without interruption. Construction
of the main workshop at Aden was cancelled before the tender documents were completed, due to the closing
of the credit. However, the Government and IDA decided that such a workshop will be considered in a new
road rehabilitation project once a maintenance capability is secured in the road sector.
20.   As regards civil works, the repairs to flood-damaged roads were awarded through a negotiated contract
to the state owned construction company in Aden, the Public Corporation for Road Construction (PCRC), and
were successfully completed in late 1988. The scattered locations and emergency nature of the works were
thought to justify using PCRC to simplify the management of the construction works and avoid delays in
procurement. With regard to the three-year time slice of the routine and periodic maintenance program
covering 1987 to 1989, it was agreed that this work would consist of resealing 173 km between Am Ayn and
Naqabah. Bids for this work were received on April 15, 1991. The contract, for which no price escalation was
allowed, was awarded to the PCRC in mid 1991 for a three and a half year duration starting January 1992. A
consultant was also appointed at the end of 1991 to supervise these works.
21.   An IDA supervision mission that visited the construction site in May/June 1993 identified severe
implementation problems. The contractor had not mobilized fully, no work had been undertaken on site, the
supervision consultant had not been provided housing on site and was living in Aden, a four-hour drive from
the project midpoint. The contractor could not give a specific date for commencement of the physical work and,
in fact, had no work program for the contracted rehabilitation works. The problems were compounded by the
fact that much deterioration had taken place along the road since the design work was carried out in 1989, and
the design needed revisions based on present road condition data. These weaknesses were pointed out to the
Government, and the supervision consultant was alerted of his responsibility to advize the Government: (i)
regarding the design deficiencies; (ii) that a program for this design work was urgently needed; (iii) that the
contractor had no work program for the construction work, and (iv) that a revised cost estimate had to be
prepared.
22.   A September 1993 follow-up supervision mission found that there was still no signs of construction work
on site except that a few pot-holes had been filled at the beginning of the project the day the mission arrived.
The consulting firm charged with construction supervision had not taken any of the requested actions. The lack
of adherence to signed contracts and terms of reference by all parties (PCRC, GCRB and the Consultant) points
to a lack of professional, businesslike relationships between the parties, in particular between PCRC and the
employer. The main reason for this seems to derive from the fact that the contractor was not considered
independent from the Government, and this probably also limited the supervision consultant ability to take more
decisive actions.
23.   Execution of works was estimated to take a minimum of two years if carried out by an experienced
international contractor. With PCRC it would have taken much longer. With a two-year extension, more than
eight years would have elapsed since Board approval, and still there would be a good chance that further
extensions would be required to complete the project. In view of that situation, IDA decided to not extend the
December 31, 1993 closing date.



- 5 -
24.   Several factors played a role in this situation. A very important factor is the complex north/south
relationship that resulted in a lack of integration of the northern and southern Highway Authorities and their
contracting arms. This led to a tendency to centralization of decision making in Sana'a, which again was an
important factor in deteriorating project performance in the south. Other more technical factors affecting the
contractor's progress included:
(i) Local Inflation: The high local inflation over the period after bidding took place, which was
not compensated because of the lack of a price adjustment clause in the contract, had made
it impossible for the contractor to break even because 40 percent of the contract prices were
denominated in local currency. Moreover, the prospects of further inflation probably made
it not worthwhile for the contractor to attempt to carry out the work;
(ii) Contractor'sfinancial weaknesses: The contractor's financial position, and lack of adequate
equipment caused the employer GCRB to take the unusual step of requiring proof of
equipment purchase before making the advance payment. The payment of the advance (20
percent of contract value) was, thus, made in installments and was not completed until the
second half of 1992. Since the advance payment was used almost entirely to purchase the
needed equipment, the contractor had little working capital. This prompted the Government
towards the end of 1993 to give PCRC an additional advance of 10 percent of the contract
value to induce some action on site. However this last advance, which was made entirely in
local currency, was not sufficient to complete the procurement of the needed equipment,
materials and pay outstanding salaries of PCRC staff.
(iii) Liquidated damages: At that late stage (first half of 1993) the contractor also knew he was
likely to have to pay liquidated damages that would cost him 10 percent of the contract value;
and
(iv) Underestinated quantities: The quantities of asphalt concrete (AC) had been severely
underestimated by the designing consultant due to the unevenness of the existing road in many
places, and the need for an additional regulating layer of AC. Moreover, the low unit prices
for AC in PCRC's contract made the works even more unattractive to complete.
25.   Project implementation is rated unsatisfactory as little was accomplished either on the routine and
periodic road maintenance component, or on training and establishing of a road maintenance organization.
Construction of the main workshop at Aden was cancelled before the tender documents were completed due to
the closing of the credit. The only item successfully completed was the repair of flood-damaged roads.
Project Sustainability
26.   The only physical works fully financed under the Credit were the repair of flood-damaged roads and
the construction of maintenance centers. The sustainability of road construction and maintenance works is
heavily dependent on the quality of future maintenance. After GCRB took over the responsibility for road
maintenance all over Yemen, and with the construction of additional maintenance centers and procurement of
maintenance equipment under this project and the Fourth Project, the basic infrastructure to make the project
physical works and other road projects sustainable is in place. However, there are, and will be for some time,
insufficient funds available for road maintenance in the general budget, and organizational capacity is not
adequate to manage the volume of maintenance needed to keep the road network in a stable condition. While
the project was partly successful in creating a force account capability to undertake works, it failed to establish



a well-managed and effective road maintenance organization under civil service constraints. This is partly due
to the lack of a stable source of sufficient funding and partly to a lack of understanding of the importance of
maintenance among Yemeni policy makers and key officials in the Highway Authority. More than 80 percent
of Yemen's road budget is used for new construction of paved roads, while the Government is borrowing to
rehabilitate the more than 800 km of existing roads that the Highway Authority has classified as being in poor
condition in need of urgent rehabilitation\reconstruction.
27.   IDA and the Government are addressing these issues through two follow-up projects (the Transport
Rehabilitation Project and the Safir-Hadramout Road Project) designed to increase transport system
sustainability. It has been agreed to establish a Road Maintenance Fund dedicated to financing highway
maintenance and rehabilitation. The funding would come directly from the road users through a surcharge on
fuel and annual vehicle fees addressing thereby also the need for cost recovery in the sector. The funds would
be managed by a new National Highway Board, and the General Corporation for Roads and Bridges would
carry out some of the works, initially as force account under performance contracts with the Board.
IDA Performance
28.   The new, unified, Yemen's very large problems in coordinating and consolidating highway mainenance
operations required IDA to show great flexibility in attempting to help the country establish a functioning road
maintenance organization. The Association decided, justifiably, that these efforts should be continued in the
context of new projects designed for the unified country, rather than to try to revive components based on
institutional structures that no longer existed.
29.   IDA's performance in preparing the project was satisfactory. The project was thoroughly prepared by
IDA and the Borrower, although one may question whether IDA underestimated the difficulties in establishing
sustainable force-account maintenance operations under Yemen's civil service constraints. The amount set aside
for TA in the project for this purpose (US$ 1.5 million) was relatively small for the training of 275 staff in all
aspects of road maintenance including management, and the short project time frame raise some doubt as to the
likelihood of success even with experienced international consultants. IDA made strenuous efforts to line up
cofinancing, and displayed flexibility in adding a flood damage component after the project had been appraised.
Execution got off to a reasonable start in late 1987, and until late 1989 progress was generally satisfactory,
except for difficulties in engaging consultants. IDA also showed firmness during the last two years of the
project when implementation stalled, avoiding increasing disbursements by purchasing more equipment and
plant, or extending the project as requested by the Borrower.
30.   IDA should have been more cautious with regard to the Government's proposal to allow a state-owned
construction firm to bid on works financed under the project, particularly as the same contractor had limited
financial and managerial autonomy and experienced difficulties in executing road works in the past (Fourth
Highway Project). Once the contracting parastatal was allowed to bid and the contract was signed it was
virtually impossible for the Government for political or other reasons to cancel the contract, even though the
contractor was in default, which shows a lack of businesslike relationship between the employer and the
contractor. Furthermore, there was no provision in the contract documents for price escalation because of
Government opposition.
31.    Following the Bank reorganization in mid 1987, the preparation team supervising execution was
changed. In the course of the next seven years the supervision team was changed an additional three times.
After IDA agreed to award of the road contract to the PCRC parastatal in mid-1991, it was no longer possible
to achieve progress in physical works by intensifying IDA supervision. In the end IDA took the appropriate step
in cancelling the Credit after repeated warnings to the Borrower were ignored.
c



32.   In hindsight, IDA should have been more careful in reviewing the capability of consulting firms short-
listed by the Borrower. Repeatedly, consulting firms had to be dismissed for failure to perform, and one
international firm refused to sign a contract after it had been selected as the successful candidate. More effort
on the part of IDA to assist the Borrower at the critical stages before unification in short-listing and selecting
competent firms to submit proposals for key project components would have been worthwhile in retrospect.
In the future staff should be careful in screening the shortlist of consultants submitted for approval, and the
Borrower should approach a longer list of consulting firms and ask them for a Statement of Capabilities before
a short list is proposed to IDA.
Borrower Performance
33.   The Borrower's lack of experience in selecting and managing consultants led to inadequate technical
assistance on most project components, and to the cancellation of the undisbursed balance of SDR 8.46 million
in the Credit.
34.   Credit covenants were not complied with: the axle load limits were not enforced, sufficient resources
for road maintenance were not provided in the budgets, maintenance programs and training programs for staff
were not prepared, the Road Master Plan was not undertaken, and audit reports were submitted late and were
in Arabic.
35.   Despite of being somewhat ineffective in its force-account maintenance operation, the Borrower
continued purchasing equipment. From 1992 and until the end of the project, the Borrower did show concern
for the organization and management of road maintenance including how to finance road maintenance on a
sustainable basis. During the preparation of the Safir-Hadramout Project and the Transport Rehabilitation
Project the Government agreed to introduce the required policy and institutional changes to establish an efficient
organization that could manage the road system on a sustainable basis. However, at this stage it was too late
for these changes to benefit the Fourth and the Fifth Highway Projects.
Achievment of Project Objectives and Assessment of Outcome
36.   The main objective of the project, to establish a properly equipped and capable force account
maintenance organization was not achieved, and on this basis, project accomplishment must be rated as
unsatisfactory. While repairs to flood-damaged roads were completed, equipment was purchased, and some
maintenance shops built, no organization was created to effectively utilize these resources during the lifetime
of the project.
37.   At the time of the unification of the two Yemens in May 1990, and following the start of the Gulf crisis
in August 1990, both the Fourth and the Fifth Highway projects were experiencing severe implementation
difficulties in a situation where the Government transferred the implementing responsibility to the Ministry of
Construction in Sana'a without attempting to merge the two highway agencies. Under such circumstances
ambitious institutional development objectives proved extremely difficult.
Economic Evaluation
38.   The only part of the project that was completed was the flood-damage component, which did not have
an economic evaluation, as it was included as emergency works. The remaining works were not implemented
and re-evaluating the economics of the works is, therefore, impossible..



- 8 -
39.    Previous IDA highway projects in the north and south assisted in establishing and consolidating
highway agencies in response to a need for improved road maintenance capacity. Two public sector
construction units were also established to implement road works due to a lack of domestic capacity in the road
construction sector. A Vocational Training Center was also established under the Third Highway Project in
Taiz, as a training facility for all road maintenance staff.
40.    Since the ROY's primary road network is approaching completion, IDA's transport sector strategy
focusses on: adequate maintenance of assets; selective expansion of the road network providing access to areas
with high economic potential, and upgrading operational and financial management. Road-sector financing and
institutional issues are now being addressed under the proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project where the
Government is proposing to establish a new Road Maintenance Fund financed by user fees (a surcharge on
fuel and annual vehicle fees for heavy vehicles) and a National Highway Board to manage the road network
as a first step to establishing the roads sector as a public utility.
Key Lessons Learned
41.    The findings and lessons learned under this project are listed below.
(i)  Following the major political event of the unification of the northern and southern parts of
Yemen, the consequences of the Gulf crisis, and the non-compliance with the legal covenants,
project design should have been reassessed and the project restructured to ensure continued
relevance and borrower commitment.
(ii) The Association should not finance equipment, supplies and workshops until sufficient
maintenance capabilities have been established, and sufficient funding for road maintenance has
been made available to use the equipment.
(iii) More care should be given to the process of selecting consultants for technical assistance
assignments that are critical to the successful implementation of project objectives and
sustainability of the project; proposals should be evaluated mainly on technical quality, experience
of staff and reputation of firms, with less weight given to the price offered. Borrowers may need
greater assistance from IDA early in the process of short-listing firms in order to eliminate firms
with little or no experience in the field of the assignment.
(iv) Civil works contracts of a duration of more than one year should have price
adjustment clauses with appropriate formulae and indices to compensate for cost variations on
equipment, labor, materials and spare parts.
(v) Parastatal contractors should only be allowed to bid for civil works contracts in competition with
the private sector when their operations are managerially and financially autonomous.
(vi) For procurement of works, the Borrower should use the standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank and IDA with minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.



- 9 -
Republic of Yemen
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 1823-YDR
Implementation Completion Report
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summarv of Assessments
A. Achievements of objectives  Substantial   Partial   Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                 R            1                         IV
Sector policies                [1          [                          b
Financial objectives           11          F]        g                IV
Institutional development      D]                    [
Physical objectives            F]
Poverty reduction              F]          g         [     
Gender issues                  F]         11          ]
Other social Objectives        F]          F]        [
Environmental objectives       F]          g         F]
Public sector management       [            ]
Private sector development     n           F]
Other (specify)                 :          g         F  



- 10 -
Table 1 (continued): Summar of Assessments
B. Project sustainability      Likly                   Unlikely       Uncertain
Highly
C. IDA Performance             Satisfactory            Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification               []                       E:                n
Preparation assistance       3                        M 
Appraisal                                                              H F 
Supervision                  n                        iM
Highly
D. Borrower Performane         Satisfactory            Satisfacto     Deficient
Preparation                  n                        9                2
Implementation               H                        H
Covenant compliance          H]                       H      
Operation (if applicable)    H                        H
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
H]           H]               H9



- 11 -
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title           Purpose                              Year of           Status
Approval
First Highway          Development of road system around    1970              Closed
Credit 240-YDR         Aden and strengthen road institutions.
Engineering            Provide technical Assistance,        1970              Closed
Credit S12-YDR         maintenance and workshop
equipment, spare parts and
engineering and feasibility studies.
Second Highway         Creation of a construction unit for  1984              Closed
Project                road works, construct a road to an
Credit 560-YDR         agricultural area (Wadi Hadramout)
and continued technical assistance to
road administration.
Third Highway          Technical assistance to prepare      1984              Closed
Project                proposed Fourth Highway Project,
Credit 1144-YDR        utilize foreign consultants, use ICU to
construct Naqabah-Nisab road.
Road Flood             Implement road construction program  1984              Closed
Reconstruction         of major damages caused by heavy
Project,               floods of 1982 and 1983.
Credit 1295-YDR        Rehabilitation of road maintenance
centers and provide Transport Sector
Study.
Aden Port              Rehabilitation of Aden Port and ship  1984             Closed
Rehabilitation Credit    servicing.
584-YDR
Fourth Highway         Construct Wasit-Beihan road,         1985              Closed
Project                maintenance and training program,
Credit 1617-YDR        and studies.



- 12 -
Table 2 (continued): Related IDA Credits
Credit /Title          Purpose                              Year of approval   Status
First Highway          Establishment of Highway Authority   1972
Credit 0315-YAR        (HA); feasibility and engineering                      Closed
studies; construction of Taiz-Tuba
road; supply of road equipment.
Second Highway         Technical assistance to HA;          1975
Project                construction of Taiz-AI Mafraq road.                   Closed
Credit 0558-YAR
Third Highway          Implementation of a three-year       1978
Project                nationwide highway maintenance                         Closed
Credit 0794-YAR        program; preparation of a national
Highway Master Plan; recruitment of
expatriate engineers and managers;
staff training.
Fourth Highway         Asphalt overlay and flood protection  1982
Project                for the Taiz-AI Mafraq road;                           Closed
Credit 1267-YAR        organizational and policy studies, and
other technical assistance, to define
the future of the Department of
Transport.
Marib Safir Road       Completion to paved standard of a    1986
Project                new road from Marib to Safir (62.5                     Closed
Credit 1726-YAR        km) and supervision of construction
by consultants.
Sana'a Hodeidah        Civil works including rehabilitation of    1987
Road Rehabilitation    Sana'a-Hodeidah road and flood-                        Closed
Project                damaged road sections and bridges
Credit 1848-YAR        nationwide; technical assistance for
construction supervision, for the
domestic construction industry and for
studies; procurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Multi-Mode             Civil works and construction         1990
Transport Project      supervision to construct the Harad-                    Under
Credit 2177-YEM        Huth road; technical assistance to the                 implementation
GCRB; strategic development studies
for the CAMA, the GCYP and
GCMA; training and equipment.



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
l  Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date Planned        Latest Estimate
Identification                                          The project was
and                                                    identified and
Preparation                                            prepared under a
previous project
(Highway 111)                         l
Appraisal / Reappraisal                                                        12/85 - 06/86
Negotiations                                                                           4/87
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                                           n/a
Board presentation                                                                  6/17/87
Signing                                                                              9/9/87
Effectiveness                                                                         2/9/88
First tranche release (if applicable)                                                  n/a
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                         n/a
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                                     n/a
Project completion                                        6/30190              Not completed
Credit closing                                            12/31/91                 12/31/93
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousands)
Y8 F Y89  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal estimate                  3.8    11.4   15.8   16.6   16.8
Actual                              2.7      5.1    6.0    6.0    7.1    7.1    7.1
Actual as % of estimate              71       45      38     36      42
Date of final disbursement                                                         3/2/92



- 14 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key indicators were not mentioned in the Staff Appraisal Report, and the Borrower did not
produce any progress report.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
The only part of the project that was completed was the flood damage component, and the
Borrower did not prepare any plan for the operational phase of the project.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Impact
Purpose as defined                                             of
study                  at appraisal/redefined                             status       study
Road Maintenance       "to implement measures needed to preserve          Not done
and training Programs    PDRY'S 1,934 km of paved roads and to            (see para. 15.)
strengthen the road maintenance organization
so that road maintenance efforts will be continued
on a regular and systematic basis thereafter"
Road Master Plan       "the Road Master Plan would cover a detailed        Not done
five-year program of investment based on economic  (see para. 17)
needs and a perspective program of road investments
up to year 2005 for the primary, secondary, and
tertiary road networks including in the Aden and
Mukalla urban areas."
Road User Charges
Study                  Originally included under the 4th Highway Project  Done         None
but recruitment of consultant made condition of    (see para. 16.)
effectiveness for this credit.
Road Maintenance and    preparation of a multi-year road rehabilitation   Tendered,
Organization Study     and maintenance program with proposal for an action  evaluation
plan to improve organization and management of routine   and award
and periodic road maintenance in Yemen.           of contract
pending.



- 15 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M) (1)  Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign               Local    Foreign
Item                            costs     costs       Total    costs     costs       Total
I. Capital costs
(i) Periodic Maintenance      5.25     11.28      16.53       0.512      1.084     1.596
(ii) Equipment & Material     0.03       4.50       4.53       0.000      1.065     1.065
(iii) Reconditioning of VTC    0.08      0.14       0.22       cancelled   ---      ---
(iv) New Workshop             0.23       3.16       3.39       cancelled   ---       ---
(v) Technical Assistance      0.16      1.49       1.65       0.005       0.089    0.094
(vi) Master Plan Study        0.05       0.47       0.52       cancelled   ---      ---
(vii) Road Flood Repair        1.25      2.94       4.19        1.242      2.640     3.882
(viii)Consultants Services     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.287      1.254     1.541 =
Sub-total                      7.05     23.98      31.03     2.046      6.132     8 178
N/A
II. Recuffent costs            3.83      2.03       5.86
10 88    2.046(2)    6.132    8.178
TOTAL                      26.01     36.89
(1) including contingencies
(2) Data unreliable need to be confirmed.
Table 8B: Project Financin
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M) (3)
ILocal    Foreign              Local    Foreign
Source   costs     costs       Total    costs      costs      Total
IDA                           --.-        16.8       16.8      0.000    6.132   6.132
Cofinancing institutions       --.-         5.1       5.1      0.000    5.500   5.500(1)
Domestic contribution          10.9        41       15.0      2.046(2)  --.-    2.046(2)
TOTAL          10.9      .26.       36.9       2.046(2) 11 32   13.678
(1) AFESD cofinancing included Aden Street Construction (completed), and rehabilitation of Shukra-Am Ayn road
(tendered, and contract negotiated, but work not yet started), and some equipment.
(2) Estimate only.
(3) Difference in project costs is also explained by the fact that actual estimates do not include the Am Ayn - Naqaba
Road Project (US$10 million approximately).
Table 9: Econoniic Costs and Benefits
The only part of the project that was completed was the flood damage component which did not have an
economic evaluation.



- 16 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Agreement   Covenant  Present  fulfillment   fulfillment  Description of
Section      type      status    date          date       covenant                       Comments
4.01(b)      A          met       annually                 Submit annual auditing         reports were delayed
of special account             and sometimes in Arabic
4.01(c)      A          met       annually                 Maintain records of
statements of expenditures
4.02(a)      0          not met                            Furnish program for            maintenance programs
routine and periodic maintenance, not based on needs
assessment/condition
0         met       annually                 submit                         surveys.
training
programs
4.02(b)      F          not met                            Ensure that annual budgeting  funding was inadequate
allocations are made
4.03(a)      0          not met                            Furnish study of the Road
Master Plan
4.03(b)      0          not met                           Develop and carry out a
Road Master Plan
4.03(c)      0          not met                           Review with IDA details of
activities to be carried out under
the Road Master Plan
4.04         0          not met                            Ensure that dimensions and
axle loads using the roads do not
exceed certain limits
6.01(a)      0          met      02/09                    Condition of effectiveness is   Consultant selected
selection of consultant to carry    had a contract never
out the Road Master Plan      signed.
6.01(b)      0          met      02/09                    Condition of effectiveness is
signing a contract for a consultant
to carry out Road User Charges study
6.01(c)      0          met      02/09                    Signing of a contract with a
consultant to provide technical
assistance for road maintenance



- 17 -
Table 11: Complance with O=ational Manual Statements
Statement number and Title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
- OD 11.00: Procurement       It would appear from the limited information in the correspondence files that
a more thorough investigation could have been carried out to assess if the
parastatal contractor (PCRC) met the requirement of "Section F - Eligibility
of Public Sector Enterprise" in order to bid in competition with the private
sector.
- Sample Bidding documents:    Procurement of works - It would also appear that the bidding documents for
the roads did not provide for a price adjustment clause in the contract for
rehabilitation of 173 km of road between Am Ayn and Naqabah
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
[                               |       Planned      |       Revised              Actual
Stage of Project Cycle          Weeks    US$         Weeks    US$         Weeks    US$
Through appraisal               N/A                                        18.9
Appraisal - Board               N/A                                        55.1
Board - Effectiveness           N/A                                         4.7
Supervision                     63                                         48.7
Completion                      8                                           9.3
TOTAL                         71        N/A                  N/A        136.7      N/A



- 18 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance   Performance   Types
Number  Days   Specialized      rating -      rating -      of
Stage of        Month/    of         in   staff skills    Implemen-    development  Pro-
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field   represented     tation status    objectives  blems
___ __ __ __ _   __ __ (1)  (2)
Appraisal        12/85      2       14    HE, EC
Re-appraisal      6/86      2       12    HE, EC, ME
Pre-negotiations   11/86    3        4    2.HE, EC
Appraisal Flood
Damage            5/87      2        7   HE, LO
Component
Supervision 1    10/87      2        5   HE, EC              1            2
Supervision 2     7/88      1        10   HE                 1            2
Supervision 3     1/89      2        4   HE, EC              1            2             =
Supervision 4     9/89      1        6   HE                 2             2
Supervision 5     1/90      1        5   EC                 n.a          n.a
Supervision 6     5/90      1        6   HE                 n.a          n.a
Supervision 7    5/91       1        6   HE                  2            1
Supervision 8    6/92       1        16   HE                 2            2
Supervision 9     5/93      1        4    HE                 3            3
Supervision 10    9/93      1        5   HE                  3            3
Supervision 11    1/94      2        3   HE, C               3            3             =
(1) " overall status" from FORM 590
(2) " project development objectives" from FORM 590



- 19 -
Appendix I: Amendments to Credit Agreement
Date of 1st Amendment:   September 19, 1989
Subject: Schedules 1 and 2
1.   The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the credit) to
the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Categorv              SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)    Works                  7,000,000                68%
(2)   Goods                   4,300,000               100% of foreign expenditures
(3)   Consultants' services   1,300,000               100% of foreign expenditures
and training
(4)   Unallocated               500Q000
TOTAL                 13.100.000
2.     Part A (1) and D of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) to the Development Credit
Agreement are amended as follows:
(a) "Part A: Road Maintenance:
(1) Carrying out of a three-year routine maintenance program covering the period
1987 to 1989, including the provision of 175 km of resealing."
(b)  "Part D: Flood repair:
Repair of flood damages to the Borrower's transport system."
Date of 2nd Amendment:  July 9, 1991
Subiect : Borrower's Name and Address
1.      The name of the Borrower, "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen", set forth on the
cover page, in the first paragraph of page 1 and on the signature line of the Credit Agreement is
changed to the "Republic of Yemen".
2.      The definition of "MOCH" set forth in paragraph (a) of section 1.02 of the Agreement for
Credit No. 1823-YDR is changed to read as follows:
(b)   "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction, and any successor thereto"
and all references to MOCH in the Credit Agreement are amended to refer to MOC.



- 20 -
3.     The representative of the borrower designated in section 7.01 of the Agreements of the
Credit No. 1617-YDR and 1823-YDR, respectively, is changed to the Ministry of Planning and
Development.
4.      The address for the Borrower set forth in section 7.02 of the Agreements for the Credit No.
1617-YDR and 1823-YDR, respectively, is changed to:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: CENPLAN Sana'a
Telex:       2266 CENPLAN YE



- 21 -
Appendix U: IDA Letter confirming decision to close the Credit
March 24, 1994
H.E. Abdullah Kurshumi
Minister of Construction and
Chairman of the General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Re: YEMEN:           Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1823-YDR)
Seventh Highway Project (Credit 1848-YAR)
Multi-mode Transport Project (Credit 2177-YEM)
Your Excellency:
Fifth Highwav Project
On the Fifth Highway Project, the contractor for the main component of the credit,
the Am Ayn - Naqabah Road, has not been able to undertake any work in the nearly two years
following the order to proceed and his receipt of advance payments totalling 30 percent of the
contract amount. We believe that the main reasons for this lack of performance are: (i) the low
contract price, of which 40 percent is payable in local currency; (ii) rapid inflation since the
project was tendered; and, (iii) the lack of an adequate price escalation clause in the construction
contract, all of which are making it difficult for the contractor to finance his operations. The
contractor could also have to pay 10 percent of the contract amount in liquidated damages if the
supervising consultant's estimate of a three years construction period is correct. With all the work
to be done and less than 55 percent of the contract amount to be paid (5 percent discount on the
contract price was offered by the contractor if awarded the contract), the contractor is in a very
difficult position.
Your Excellency, may I mention in this connection that IDA has several times in
the past brought to the attention of your Government the need to introduce price escalation
formulae in civil works contracts and has offered financial and technical assistance to establish
appropriate price indices. Our concern has been that in the absence of price adjustment,
contractors would abandon works (after withdrawing significant sums for mobilization) when
subjected to the vagaries of high inflation rates. The above incident which has happened before
under other IDA financed projects, indicates that the losses to the Government arising from the
present contract practices may be high and are not just confined to the highways sector. While
over the last three years our efforts to help your Government establish a price escalation system
have not met with favorable consideration, should you wish to take the necessary steps to develop
such a system now, we would be pleased to assist. As part of the TA component of the proposed
Safir-Hadramout Road Project, we have included support to develop such a system for civil works



- 22 -
contracts. For your convenient reference, I am attaching selected items from our past
correspondence on this subject. In the absence of improvements in the procurement/contracting
procedures, the delaying impact of these procedures will be high and it will be difficult for IDA
to accommodate these predictable delays by extending closing dates automatically.
The latest report from the supervising consultant estimates the works to cost almost
twice the original contract amount due mainly to an underestimation of the quantity of asphalt
concrete needed. If the contractor is entitled to renegotiate his rates due to this exceptional
quantity increase, even a doubling of the contract price would not be sufficient to finance the
works on the Am Ayn - Naqabah Road. A doubling of the contract price would also imply a
reduction in IDA's share of the financing from 68 percent to 34 percent, with the Government
financing 66 percent, 26 percent of which would be in foreign currency.
The performance of the contractor, inadequacies in the design, and unreliable cost
estimates are problems still to be resolved, and we do not see any reliable plans for how this
project could be completed successfully within a reasonable time. We are, therefore, unable to
reconsider our decision to close the Credit on December 31. 1993. In order to arrest the ongoing
deterioration of the road, we recommend carrying out pothole repair, sealing of cracks, and
reconstruction of damaged parts of the road using GCRB's maintenance capability. We would
like to repeat what we proposed in our telex to you of December 21, 1993 that depending on the
overall IDA project portfolio review to be undertaken shortly and successful negotiations of the
Safir-Hadramout Road Project, we could discuss accommodating immediate road maintenance
needs under ongoing projects in the transport sector and long term needs under a possible new
project in the transport sector with road and bridge rehabilitation and institutional development of
road sector institutions as main components.
Sincerely,
By/s/     Alastair J. McKechnie
Division Chief
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region









IBRD 26334
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
AM AYN - NAQABA ROAD PROJECT
NISAB - WASIT - BEIHAN                          SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES                   WADIS
ROAD,FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT               G      GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                          GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
PRIMARY ROADS                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                     -   -    APPROXIMATE GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
SECONDARY ROADS                                 AIRPORTS                              -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
...  TRACKS                                           PORTS
Mayd\5   |                    | )               9~\           45                    0   25   50         100        150                      48)
AHalm                                           I                         .H.-m
KILOMETERS                OAl'Abr      -orim
H   JH                                        ..    AL JAW WE
1-uhayyal,        /                < t1H   9   Rrayd                                                                                                ai J( l t tnynnl Ghurrof
- .e ,    A M 5z  /..akhoneg
AL                                                  MARIB                                Shabah                 (HADRAMAWT
_150                                                                                                         SHABWAH                            AlMogharim
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l\< Man_hocbr  ifec  Rr; 
A                                                  Nuqub                                                               ud~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nsb      rRoso
HODEID                                       MO  0                                      AsSai
DHAMA Hcysh_   IBB   EAl Huwcymi=
HO                                    R,do                                                  ATAQ~~~~~~~~~~~~IJBA  DNT, onoes oo~ eoiaiosodonohrinoioo
< >   V    X   L A HzlNJIB A R                                 ADEN                                ShWnnsh2SmOPhdinOI;tm oonfontperrleoryoronyendoErsement~an udinnt n te ega satu oRoo teritryor ny ndrseen
>< At Turboh                                                                                            Ar R     4d
OCTOBE R 1 994









' ~ t-  I'                    



