Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(2 P /R'RY-
Report No. 6477-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 15, 1987
Projects Departmeat
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1987)
Currency Unit                                       = Yemeni Dinar (YD)
US$1.00                                             = YD 0.345
US$2.90                                             = YD 1.000
US$2.9 million                                      = YD 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                       British/US System
1 meter (m)                                         = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                                    = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq kilometer (km2)                                = 0.386 sq miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)                                      = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)                                = 2,205 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADT                                - Average Daily Traffic
AFESD                              - Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development
ER                                 - Economic Return
FAO                                - Food and Agricultural Organization
FFYP                               - First Five-Year Plan
GCC                                - Gulf Cooperation Council
HA                                 - Highway Authority
ICU                                - Independent Construction Unit
KFAED                              - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development
MOCH                               - Ministry of Construction and Housing
MOP                                - Ministry of Planning
MTPU                               - Mechanical Training Production Unit
NBY                                - National Bank of Yemen
OPEC                               - Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
PDRY                               - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PRC                                - People's Republic of China
RRMU                               - Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit
RTPU                               - Road Training Production Unit
SFYP                               - Second Five-Year Plan
SOE                                - Statement of Erpenditures
TFYP                               - Third Five-Year Plan
UNDP                               - United Nations Development Programme
UtSSR                              - Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
vpd                                - Vehicles per day
VTC                                 - Vocational Training Center
WFP                                - World Food Programme
YAR                                - Yemen Arab Republic
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLES'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of ContePts
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.......                                                  1
A.  Development Strategy and Progress.                          .           1
B. Institutions and Policies. .**.                                         3
C.  Experience with Past Lending ...........................,  5
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ................ ..... ..... . ....... .   5
A.  Road System..................... . ....    5
B. Traffic...     6
C.  Road Transport....... .......... .                                      7
D. Administration           ...                ....... ..   7
E. Planning.....    8
F.  Expenditures, Accounting and Financing             . . . .             9
G. Engineering.... . .....                                                10
H. Construction                             ..              ..    10
I. Maintenance                        ..... 11
J. Training..                                                             12
III. THE PROJECT                   .........14
A. Background                       ....... 14
B. Project Objectives..                                                   14
C. Project Description                     .         ..        .. 14
D. Status of Project Preparation                 ...                      17
E. Cost Estimates..                                                       18
F. Financing                         ... 20
G.  Project Implementation .. ..................0 ..............  22
H. Procurement ...23
I.  Disbursement ....................................  25
J.  Budgeting, Accounting and Audit                         ..            26
K.  Environmental Impact          .       ....................................   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in December
1985 and a reappraisal mission in June 1986, both consisting of Messrs. H.
Schlechtriem (Economist) and E. Andresen (Engineer). Mr. A. Mackie
(Mechanical Engineer/Consultant) participated in the June 1986 mission.
Mr. G. Morra (Training Specialist) appraised the Project's training
component during 1985. A follow-up mission was undertaken by Messrs.
M. W. Dickerson (Deputy Division Chief for Transportation), H. Schlechtriem
and E. Andresen in November 1986. Mr. Andresen visited PDRY again in
May 1987 to appraise the Project's road flood reconstruction component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authnri,tinn



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  ECONJOMIC JUSTIFICATION ..............................  27
A. General               .............                           27
B.  Road Maintenance Program .......................... .......  27
C. Project Risks ....................................  29
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................  29
TABLES
1.  Transport Sector Investments ..............................  31
2.  Evolution of the Road Network .............................  32
3.  Development of Motor Vehicle Fleet 1975-84      ................  33
4.  Road Investments during Second Five-Year Plan .............  34
5.  Road Projects proposed for Third Five-Year Plan ........... 35
6.  Geometric Design Standards for Paved Roads ................ 36
ANNEXES
I.  Experience with Past Lending ............................  37
II.  Proposed Road Maintenance Programr.....................  39
III.  Proposed Training Program ............................... 63
IV.  Agreed Project Implementation Action Plan ............... 69
V.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .....................  72
VI. Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .......... ...............................  73
CHARTS
I.  Organization of Ministry of Construction and Ho*tsing .... 74
II.  Project Implementation Schedule .........................  75
III.  Disbursement Profiles . .................................. 76
MAP
IBRD 19862 - PDRY, Fifth Highway Project
Road Maintenance Program
7429D
7489D



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
1. Borrower:             Pt ple's Democratic Republic of Yemen
2. Beneficiaries:        The Ministry of Construction and Housing (MOCH) and
its Highway Authority (HA).
3. Amount:               SDR 13.1 million (US$16.8 million equivalent).
4. Terms:                Standard IDA.
5. Project Objectives
and Description:   The Project aims at (a) completing the
establishment of an effective road maintenance
organization; (b) creating a well trained
workforce; and (c) creating a sound basis for
planning the development of the road system.
Accordingly, the Project comprises (a) a three-year
slice of a routine and periodic maintenance program
(including procurement of routine maintenance
equipment and buildings and additional workshop
equipment for a new central workshop near Aden);
'b) reconditioning of existing training facilities
and provision of training equipment and materials;
(c) technical assistance; (d) preparation of a road
master plan; and (e) repair of road flood damage.
6. Project Benefits      The Road Maintenance Program will benefit Government
and Risks:          through less frequent costly road reconstruction,
as well as road transport operators and motorists
through lower vehicle operating costs on better
roads. The main risk to the project may be the
delay in the provision of funds to meet the project
cost. However, given Government's commitment to
the project, this risk is deemed minimal.



7. Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign       Total
---- US$ million ----…--
I. Capital Costs
(a)   Periodic Maintenance Works       4.4           9.3         13.7
(b)   Equipment, Spares, Materials   0.0             4.1          4.1
(c)   Recond. of Training Center       0.1           0.1          0.2
(d)   New Central Workshop             0.2           2.6          2.8
(e)   Technical Assistance             0.2           1.4          1.6
(f)   Road Masterplan Study            0.0           0.5          0.5
(g)   Road Flood Repairs               1.1           2.7          3.8
Total Capital Costs           6.0         20.7         26.7
II.  Recurrent Costs                       3.6          1.9          5.5
III. Contingencies
(a)  Physical                          0.6           1.5          2.1
(b)  Price                             0.7           1.9          2.6
Total Contingencies           1.3          3.4          4.7
Total Project Costs         1l0           26.0         36_.9
8. Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total    %
…---- US$ million ---------
Government                            10.9           4.1         15.0    41
Proposed IDA Credit                     -           16.8         16.8    45
Co-financing                                         5.1          5.1    14
9.  Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year                    FY88    FY89      FY90    FY91    FY92
…   ------- US$ million -------------
Annual                              3.8      7.6      4.4      0.8     0.2
Cumulative                          3.8    11.4      15.8    16.6    16.8
10. Economic Rate of Return:             76%



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Development Strategy and Progress
1.01     The 2.1 million people of PDRY are widely dispersed, with Aden
being the only major urban center: about 350,000 live in the Aden gover-
norate and the remainder is scattered in small towns and villages along the
long but narrow coastal strip, and in isolated locations in the mountainous
and desertic hinterland, wherever water is available. Except for fish
wealth off the 1,400 km coastline, PDRY's natural resources are extremely
limited. Only O.2% of the country's land mass of 334,000 km2 is culti-
vated, most being desert and waste land. Over the last decade, remittances
from some 200,000 Yemenis living and working in neighboring oil producing
countries have helped to raise the generally low standard of living. Per
capita GNP stood at $520 in 1985.
1.02     Since Independence in 1967, a prime objective of government policy
has been to integrate the country's diverse regions socially and econo-
mically, and to lessen the dependence of the economy on Aden port and
refinery by developing other productive sectors, particularly agriculture
and fisheries. In the strategy toward achievement of these objectives, the
vital supporting role of adequate communications was recognized and the
build-up of transport infrastructure was closely coordinated with agricul-
tural and fisheries development. With no accessibility problem, efforts to
develop agriculture and fisheries away from their traditional subsistence
orientation started in areas close to Aden. As the distant eastern Gover-
norates were opened up, major fisheries and agricultural projects were
undertaken there. As a result of these efforts, fish production has
increased significantly and fish has become PDRY's principal export com-
modity. Hampered by the drain of labor to higher paid jobs in neighboring
countries and in PDRY's thriving construction sector, results in agricul-
ture to narrow the grain gap and to gain self-sufficiency in fruit and
vegetable production have been less successful and food imports still out-
weigh domestic surpluses by a large margin.
1.03     PDRY's development effort through successive development plans has
been impressive, with gross investment reaching about 60% of GDP in the
early 1980's. However, as a result of the changed circumstances of the oil
producing countries, worker remittances and aid in-flows have started to
decline and this high ratio will not be sustainable in future years.
Accordingly, the Government, while maintaining its development objectives,
is adjusting its strategy by putting increased emphasis on completion and
consolidation of ongoing and past projects rather than starting new ones.



1.04     From the outset, the Government pursued development policies
toward an egalitarian, socialist society with public control of productive
resources but has generally shown realism and pragmatism in its approach.
The private sector has played an important, yet subsidiary role, partic-
ularly in transport.
1.05     Investment allocations to transport (see Tables 1.1 and 1) reflect
the Government's concern to integrate the country. Investment in transport
accounted for as much as 27% of total development expenditures under the
1974-78 First Five-Year Plan (FFYP), 25% during the transition years 1979
and 1980 and 19% under the recently completed 1981-1985 Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP). In the light of a worsening economic outlook, the initial
draft of the 1986-1990 Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP), while currently being
revised, provided for a total investment 14% lower than actual expenditures
under the SFYP. Both the total TFYP investment and the transport alloca-
tion are likely to be still further reduced. As is the case in other
sectors, most transport investments are financed by external lenders. As a
result, the realization of plan projects greatly depends on the Govern-
ment's ability to attract foreign financing. However, in the past, the
Government's performance in preparing and implementing projects in the
transport sector has been good and better than for the Plan as a whole.
IDA has agreed with the Government that it will review the TFYP later in
1987, once the ongoing revision has been completed.
Table 1.1: Transport Sector Investments
FFYP       Transition        SFYP         TFYP
1974-78    Years 1979-80    1981-85       1986-90
(Actual)     (Actual)        (Actual)    (Draft)
-…YD Million…-----------
Total Transport
Investment           52.8         31.6           133.0        107.7
Total Development
Expenditures        194.8        126.2           715.2        614.4
Transport Investm.
as 2 of Dev. Exp.   27.1          25.0            18.6         17.5
Note:  Actual expenditures are in current prices; the draft TFYP in
constant prices of 1985.
1.06     Despite the lack of local experience, funds and construction capa-
bility, progress in building up the transport system has been significant.
The paved road network grew from about 400 km in and around Aden 15 years
ago to about 1,900 km today. The airport at Aden has been reconstructed,
new airports have been built at Mukalla and Al Gheida in the far eastern
part of the country and most of the seven airfields receiving scheduled



- 3 -
services have had some improiements. The national airline has been
re-equipped to cut operating costs and to handle the surge in air travel
caused by migrant workers. The port of Aden has been modernized to offer
again bunkering and ship repair services to international shipping lines
after the ieopening of the Suez Canal in 1975 and to handle the increase in
the country's foreign trade. Further improvements are underway with sup-
port of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). Small general cargo ports have
been built at Al Mukalla and Nishtun to cater for fisheries development,
regional import needs and fuel trans-shipments from Aden. A serious
set-back to the development of the transport system was caused by extra-
ordinary rainfalls and floods in 1982 and 1983, which severely damaged key
sections of main roads. Significant, though less severe road flood damage
was experienced again early in 1987. The project includes a road flood
repair component (para. 3.11).
1.07     Traffic on the transport system reflects the dominating position
of Aden as the country's gateway to abroad, the base of a nascent manufac-
turing sector and as the principal domestic distribution and consumption
center. Dry cargo throughput at Aden port--about 1 million tons (mostly
imports) in 1986--has been increasing at an average rate of 12% p.a. during
1975-85, but slowed down in 1986. Travel by migrant workers boosted inter-
national and domestic air traffic at Aden airport. Roads have emerged as
the main means of internal transport both for goods and passengers.
Volumes are high in and around Aden and the project includes improvement to
roads in the area. However, as distances are normally long, transport,
even on paved roads, continues to be relatively costly and, away from Aden
and other population concentrations, traffic volumes drop rapidly.
B. Institutions and Policies
1.08     Three ministries are responsible for the development and operation
of the transport system: The Ministry of Construction and Housing 'MOCH)
through its Highway Authority (HA) for main roads, the Ministry of Communi-
cations for road transport services, ports, shipping, airports and aviation
and the Ministry of Planning (MOP) for coordinating investment decisions
and monitoring project implementation in the sector. The MOP's director
for transport cooperates with the two modal ministries in the preparation
of new projects and advises on their integration into the national invest-
ment plan. Local road construction by the Governorates (which are
represented in the central Government through the General Department of
Local Affairs attached to tUe Prime Minister's office) is subject to the
technical appraisal of the MOCH. Maintenance of local roads (tracks) is
also with the Governorates, but their public works departments have dif-
ficulty performing this task. Under the project, the Road Master Plan
(para. 3.10) consultants will review all aspects of local road administra-
tion, maintenance and development.
1.09     Transport tariffs for all modes are set by an autonomous Central
Pricing Organization at levels that are expected to cover average operating
costs. Such tariffs also apply to private sector road transport operators.
Port assets have been revalued and port tariffs have been adjusted recently
to cover the costs of each service and are satisfactory. Road users pay
license fees, fuel taxes and customs duties on vehicles, spare parts and



tires, the proceeds of all of which form part of the Government's general
revenue. The proceeds from these taxes are more than three times present
road maintenance expenditures--including periodic maintenance. However,
since taxes on diesel fuel are low I' and since to some extent public
sector enterprises are exempted from payment of customs' duties on their
equipment, heavy trucks (which are almost exclusively owned by public
sector firms) do not pay for the damage they are causing to paved roads. A
rational road development policy would have to ensure that all road user
groups pay at least the cost related to their use of roads and a road user
charge study is being launched under the Fourth Highway Project (Credit
1617-YDR) (para. 1.12).
1.10     Concerned that operational inadequacies may prevent the benefits
of past and future transport investments from fully accruing, the Govern-
ment with assistance from UNDP and with the Bank acting as executing
agency, employed consultants to carry out a transport sector study (TSS)
which was completed in September 1984. Although the consultants found the
institutional framework of the sector basically sound, they recommended
that the Ministry of Cowmunications develop its planning expertise both to
discharge its responsibilities more fully and to assist the operating
agencies under its supervision in improving their planning and project
appraisal work. Such deficiencies as do exist are more related to
inadequate staff resources than to the organization. Nevertheless, rather
than expanding staff training efforts in the sector, the consultants
recommended that effectiveness be improved through better definition of
training needs based on job evaluations and performance monitoring of
employees. The training program included under the proposed Project
(Annex III) takes account of this recommendation.
1.11     Most of the TSS recommendations aim at increasing productivity of
transport operating agencies. The consultants particularly recommended
that all transport operating agencies, and especially the road transport
corporations and the Port Authority, obtain assistance to improve manage-
ment, operations and maintenance. In addition, the agencies should
strengthen their financial systems to improve planning and budgeting and to
better monitor the financial viability of individual operations. The
consultants confirmed that road user charges on heavy vehicles do not cover
the road maintenance costs these vehicles cause and also raised questions
about the appropriateness of prices for road and air services and airport
use.
1.12     IDA has prepared a transport sector strategy action plan, based on
the main recommendations of the TSS for discussion with the Government.
The Government is looking mainly to bilateral sources for assistance in
1/  Retail fuel prices in effect since 1982, are $0.26 equivalent per liter
of diesel and $0.61 equivalent per liter of gasoline, compared with
international prices (c.i.f. Aden) of $0.21 and $0.24 respectively in
March 1986. Retail prices include excise tax payments of $0.01 equiva-
lent per liter of diesel fuel and $0.06 equiva!ent per liter of
gasoline.



- 5 -
implementing the TSS recommendations. The road user charge study
(para. 1.09) will establish the appropriate level of charges for different
vehicle categories. The steps for review and follow-up of the road user
charge study are laid down in covenants of the Credit Agreement and the
Action Plan for the Fourth Project. During credit negotiations, the
Government's assurances have been reviewed and updated (para. 3.21).
C. Experience with Past Lending
1.13     IDA involvement in PDRY's transport system dates from 1970 when
the Government first requested assistance in the development of its trans-
port system and institutions. A fruitful relationship developed that so
far has rebulted in four highway projects and a port project. A more
detailed description of IDA's project experience is given in Annex I.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Road System
2.01     The backbone of the 1,901 km paved road network is the coastal
road which was started from Aden ir. the mid-1960's and reached Mukalla (639
km) in 1977 and Sayhut (900 km from Aden) in 1985 (Map). From the coastal
road, branch roads were extended to key agricultural areas: to Wadi Ahwar
(116 km) in 1981, to Wadi Hadramawt (314 km) in 1983 and to Wasit (107 km,
about halfway to Wadi Beihan) i.-i 1985. The arterial road from Aden to Taiz
in Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) (about 65 km on PDRY territory) was recon-
structed between 1978 and 1982. There are also 255 km of cobble stone
roads, mostly in the Wadi Hadramawt, some of them built in the 1930's and
some in more recent years. The rest of the network is made up of tracks,
most of which are not engineered but merely shaped by the vehicles them-
selves along Wadi beds. across the desert, or along the beach. Many of
these tracks are cut by flash floods and dune movements at different times
of the year, and w-th few exceptions are only passable by four-wheel drive
passenger vehicles and trucks. Due to the nature of these tracks, their
total length is not known precisely and varies probably from one year to
another. The present estimate is about 9,000 km. The evolution of the
highway network is given in Table 2.
2.02     Expansion of the system continues, although at a slower pace.  The
two main projects which the Government is presently pursuing are the exten-
sion of a road branch from the Aden-Taiz road to Al Had on the border with
YAR (81 km) and completion of the link to Wadi Beihan (126 km) which is
part of IDA's Fourth Highway Project. Plans exist or are under preparation
for a further 181 km of road (see Table 5). In addition to the Al Had
road, they include three roads in western PDRY to improve access to fertile
agricultural areas in the highlands near the border with YAR, serve local
traffic needs and strengthen relations between the people of the two Yemen
states (which are otherwise being furthered through exemption from customs
duty on the exchange of agricultural products across the border). The
planned extension of the coastal road beyond Sayhut has been postponed for
the time being.



- 6 -
2.03     To date, on-going construction projects have brought the length of
the road network to 2,156 km. By comparison with other similar countries
(e.g. Oman and Jordan), however, network density still remains low at
6.4 km of road per 1000 km2 of land surface and 1.1 km per 1000
inhabitants-reflecting difficult accessibility of many areas in PDRY.
Gradual expansion of the road network is ju;tified and should continue, but
in parallel with increased emphasis being given to road maintenance
(paras. 2.25 to 2.27).
B. Traffic
2.04     Traffic on the paved road network is highest around Aden (1,500 to
4,000 vehicles per day (vpd)) and, in the Wadi Hadramawt (1,000 to
1,500 vpd). Outside the main populated areas, volumes vary between 300 and
1,000 vpd. Unpaved roads generally carry less than 100 vpd. The propor-
tion of trucks and buses in inter-urban traffic is consistently high, at
around 40%, but with insignificant overloading. A recent axle load survey
found that only 1.6% exceeded the legal axle load limit of 13 tons.
2.05     There has been no regular traffic counting system in PDRY.  Avail-
able counts of 1976 and 1983 suggest an average traffic growth rate of
about 9% p.a. on roads close to Aden and higher growth rates elsewhere in
line with the prospects for economic growth as seen in the early 1980's,
the TSS and a Road Maintenance Study carried out under IDA's Third Highway
Project (Cr. 1144-YDR), projected traffic to increase at rates of 7% to 91
p.a. up to 1990 and 41 to 5% thereafter. With the more pessimistic outlook
dictated by recent economic indicators (para. 1.03) and with the Government
tightening the controls of vehicle imports, actual traffic growth rates are
likely to be lower than forecast. The Fourth Highway Project provides for
the installation and operation of a road planning data collection system.
2.06     The motor vehicle fleet has been growing at an average rate of
about 121 p.a. during 1975 to 1984 and now totals around 50,000 vehicles
(Table 3). Growth of the fleet has generally been higher in the outlying
governorates (particularly in Hadramawt and Shabwah where major road con-
struction took place) than in Aden. However, more than half of the fleet
is still registered in Aden--about three-quarters of all passenger cars
(and taxis), more than two-thirds of all buses, and one-thira of pick-ups
and trucks.
2.07     Actions continue to improve traffic safety.  All motor vehicles of
three or more years of age are subjected to annual technical inspection.
Driver licensing tests have been made more strict and enforcement of traf-
fic laws and regulations is being stepped up. These actions will be
complemented by traffic signs and other traffic safety features included
under the proposed project.



-7-
C. Road Transport
2.08     All public land transportation in PDRY is controlled by Public
Corporations for Land Transport (PCLTs).1' The PCLT's control most
passenger transport (including urban) and one-fifth of freight movements
(with the remainder being own-account transport). Although with their own
vehicles the PCLTs handle 902 of passenger traffic, they handle only a
third of the freight, subcontracting the balance to private sector opera-
tors. There are no restrictions on entry into the road transport industry
or the number of vehicles owned by private sector operators, but permits
are needed for vehicle imports and operations are subject to the super-
vision and control of the PCLTs.
2.09     The TSS consultants found that the PCLTs' operational performance
could be improved and made recommendations on how to increase efficiency of
operations and strengthen management. Based on these recommendations, the
Government has since taken several initiatives, which now have come to bear
fruit. They included replacement of over-age vehicles, improvement of
mechanical services (particularly in Mukalla), and introduction of an
incentive-pay system for drivers. Work is underway on the formulation of
standard contracts for haulage services, which would provide for penalties
to be charged for unduly long waiting times at points of loading and
unloading. The Government is currently carrying out a review of the pro-
gress achieved so far and is welcoming expert advice on what additional
measures should be taken to improve the efficiency of the PCLTs and the
road transport industry as a whole. IDA has agreed to assist.
2.10     In comparison with freight rates in other countries, the PCLT
rates are high: YD 0.019 to 0.041 (US$0.06 to 0.12) per ton-km for destina-
tions on the paved road network and up to YD 0.082 (US$0.24) for destina-
tions on unpaved roads. Private truckers sub-contract haulage work from
the PCLTs at these or slightly lower rates, less a 15 PCLT commission.
Passenger fares are relatively low, with a 5 km trip in Aden costing
between YD 0.025 and 0.075 (US$0.07 and 0.22) and a 620 km overland journey
YD 5.000 (US$14.50). The Aden PCLT which operates the urban service in
Aden and most of the overland routes also does not cover the cost of its
passenger services. However, due to recent productivity improvements
(para. 2.09), all PCLTs now have positive financial results on their com-
bined freight and passenger operations, disregarding the proceeds of the
15S commission charged on private sector sub-contracts. Based on improved
cost accounting records, the PCLTs have proposed a new freight tariff
(removing present anomalies in rates for destinations along the paved road
network) which is under consideration by the Central Price Organization.
D. Administration
2.11     The Ministries of Construction and Housing were only recently
(April 1986) combined into a single Ministry and their organizations have
not yet been fully integrated. Construction operations are divided between
1/ There are a total of six PCLTs, one in each Governorate. The Aden PCLT
is the largest and provides certain overhead and support services for
the organization as a whole.



- 8 -
two Deputy Ministers: one responsible for supervising public building cor-
porations and one for supervising civil works projects, the public corpora-
tion for quarries and crushers and the Highway Authority (HA). Until
recently, the HA was responsible for constructing as well as maintaining
paved roads. In August 1986, the Government combined the HA's various road
construction units into a public corporation for road construction
(para. 2.22) which reports directly to the Deputy Minister. The HA's res-
ponsibilities continue to cover planning, design, construction supervision
and maintenance of paved roads.
2.12     Before the recent reorganization, the HA had a total establishment
of about 3,200, of which about 2,300 were in the construction and recon-
struction units and 375 in the road maintenance division. There are about
100 professionals and practitioners of various disciplines, but the brunt
of the work load is actually borne by a much smaller number. Much of the
remainder fill positions without being able to cope effectively with the
responsibilities that go with them. In particular, some 25 or so graduates
recruited from Aden University during the last few years to improve the
staffing situation, while generally qualified, lack the practical experi-
ence to carry out their jobs effectively. About half of them are women
engineers who face special problems, as in PDRY's still largely traditional
environment, they are not accepted at the site and consequently are con-
fined to desk work. At the tradesman level, there is a high rate of
illiteracy and insufficient job skills that is being addressed through an
adult literacy campaign and various training programs. The Government has
recognized the need for a personnel development program and training
schemes are underway with more planned (paras. 2.30 to 2.31).
E. Planning
2.13     The HA's Planning and Statistics Division is responsible for all
technical planning work on main roads. To the extent staff and other
resources permit, it carries out traffic surveys and simple feasibility
studies for small projects, supervises consultants for the large ones and
updates project costs and benefits in the preparation of the Annual and the
Five-Year Development Plans. The Division works closely with the Planning
Unit attached to the Minister of Construction and Housing's office, which
monitors projects closely from their inception to completion, provides
policy guidance, facilitates planning decisions and coordinates with the
Ministry of Planning and other Ministries as necessary. As a key unit, the
Planning Unit also has overall responsibility for collating the Ministry's
proposals (including the HA's) for Annual and Five-Year Plans and annual
budgets and for furthering and directing the implementation of approved
projects and programs.
2.14     The Government has generally been prudent in its road investments,
following closely the development strategy prepared under IDA's First High-
way Project (Annex I). Road projects completed and started under the
recent 1981-85 SFYP are shown in Table 4; those proposed for inclusion
under the TFYP in Table 5. As mentioned earlier (para. 1.05) the existing
draft TFYP is presently being revised. Nevertheless, the core projects for



9-
which finance has been or is being secured and which in part are under
implementation will remain in the TFYP. These represent a total investment
of YD 43.5 (US$126) million of which YD 13.7 (US$40) million or 31% is for
improvements to existing roads (including the proposed road maintenance
program) and YD 29.8 (US$86) million or 69% for new construction. In
addition, four projects for the construction of 181 km of roads (para. 2.02)
at a cost of YD 16.8 (US$49) million are being considered for inclusion in
the TFYP. The blend of road maintenance/rehabilitation vs. new construc-
tion expenditures is satisfactory as the former provide adequately for the
investment needed to set up the (routine) maintenance organization as well
as for essential periodic pavement maintenance and structure rehabilitation
works. As in the past, the amount of new construction will largely depend
on the availability of foreign financing (para. 1.05). Feasibility and
engineering studies have been completed for all proposed projects and show
the proposed new construction projects to be economically justified with
rates of return in the 12% to 17% range. The Government has agreed that
IDA carry out a detailed review of the TFYP, including the transport sector
investment (para. 1.05) and, in order to have a sound basis for planning
future road development, intends to prepare a Road Master Plan included
under the proposed project (para. 3.10).
F. Expenditures, Accounting, and Financing
2.15     Development expenditures are financed through the development
budget administered by the Ministry of Planning and recurrent expenditures
through the ordinary budget administered by the Ministry of Finance. Both
budgets work strictly on a cash basis. For instance, equipment deprecia-
tion allowances are only included to the extent that they are provided for
in contracts. Renewal of equipment for force account works (such as road
maintenance) is funded periodically through the development budget.
2.16     Road development expenditures in current terms, averaged YD 6.0
(US$17.4) million per year under the FFYP, YD 7.8 (US$22.6) million during
the transition years 1979 and 1980 and YD 11.1 (US$32.21 million under the
recent SFYP. For the TFYP, road development expenditures of between YD 8.7
(US$25.2) million (core projects) and YD 12.1 (US$35.0) million per year in
1985 prices are anticipated. The HA's recurrent expenditures for road
administration and maintenance ranged between to YD 0.8 (US$2.3) and YD 1.5
(US$4.3) million per year during the SFYP period. There are no reliable
data on annual expenditures for road construction and maintenance. While
detailed accounts are kept on some construction projects, others have only
simple accounts. The cost of the latter are only known precisely once they
are audited upon completion. Also, since no cost accounting system exists,
it is not possible to separate accurately how much of the HA's ordinary
budget was spent on road maintenance. To improve the data on expenditures,
the technical assistance consultants under the Third Highway Project
developed a comprehensive cost accounting system for the HA. Under the
Fourth Highway project, the Government gave assurances that it will estab-
lish a cost accounting section in the HA's Administration and Finance
Department to put into practice the consultant's recommendations. During
credit negotiation this covenant has been updated (para. 3.21).



- 10 -
2.17     All major road construction and reconstruction projects are
financed by foreign assistance on concessionary terms, with the Government
meeting only part of the local costs. Apart from IDA, major donors were
the People's Republic of China, the Kuwait Fund, the Arab Fund, the
OPEC-Fund, Libya, German Democratic Republic, and Algeria. The World Food
Program (WFP) has also been supporting construction and reconstruction
programs with food aid, used as part payment to construction workers. IDA,
Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund have assisted in the past with financing road
maintenance equipment. Some minor construction and most of the pavement
renewal works are carried out with the Government funding, as is road
maintenance.
G. Engineering
2.18     The HA's Survey and Design Department undertakes designs for small
road projects but all major projects are prepared by foreign consultants.
Up to 1985, the Department also was responsible for construction super-
vision. This function, which gained importance with the recent establish-
ment of the Public Corporation for Road Construction, has been assumed by a
newly-created Construction Supervision Department (para. 2.24).
2.19     In October 1983. in line with the TSS consultants' recommenda-
tions, the HA formally adopted geometric design standards for paved roads
(Table 6). Although perlhaps somewhat generous for low traffic volumes, the
standards are satisfactory. In view of the overall shortage of resources
and the basic access needs to be met, design standards are expected to be
applied flexibly and lowered where necessary. Gravel roads are not built
in PDRY since, with inferior materials and little water, they can neither
be built nor maintained at reasonable costs. The traditional cobble-stone
roads have performed well under light traffic.  However, their use is now
declining because of the shortage and high cost of skilled craftsmen needed
to build and maintain them.
2.20     Based on studies carried out under the Second Highway Project, the
Government raised the legal axle load limit to 13 tons in 1980 and road
pavement design takes account of this limit.  During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will continue to ensure that vehicle
dimensions and axle loads do not exceed limits consistent with the design
standards of roads (para. 5.03, a).
H. Construction
2.21     Most road construction work is carried out by local construction
units. This was not the original intention in 1974, when intensive road
improvement programs started, but attempts to carry out road works through
international contractors were not successful as bids either were unaccept-
able or were unduly high. The main reasons appeared to be: foreign
contractors' unfamiliarity with conditions in PDRY; the difficult working
conditions due to the country's remoteness, the harsh physical environment
and during the late 1970s and early 1980s shortage of local labor; the
perceived lack of prospects for follow-on contracts; and during the late



- 11 -
1970s, lucrative earning opportunities elsewhere in the region. Under the
circumstances and given PDRY's limited resources, the Government with the
concurrence and support of its donors opted for the only other alternative
to implement its road investment program, namely to develop its own road
construction capabilities.
2.22     In view of the dearth of local contractors, the Government estab-
lished a total of five local road construction units. Operating indepen-
dently under the general supervision of the Director General of the HA,
these construction units built the Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt, Aden-YAR border,
Shuqra-Ahwar, Ash Shihr-Sayhut and Naqabah-Nisab roads.   Some of them,
with the assistance of expatriate management consultants, have been working
as full-fledged contractors while others have been operating on a direct
labor basis. The former are the most productive and have produced good
results reflected in good workmanship, an increase in productivity cover the
years, and satisfactory accounting practices. In view of overall financing
constraints and competing demands on resources, the current capacity may
not be needed and, over the next few years, some construction resources
will be phased out or transferred to maintenance activities. The Govern-
ment as noted (para. 2.11) has consolidated the construction units' staff,
equipment and other assets into a Public Corporation for Road Construction
(PCRC), which increases the fungibility of construction resources and the
overall efficiency of operations. The Corporation is competing with inter-
national contractors for road works in PDRY.
2.23     In the late 1970s, mainly as result of an increase in building
activity financed from worker remittances, a vigorous private sector
contracting industry emerged. Most of these contractors are small (with 5
employees or less), but 16 are qualified to undertake contracts of up to
YD 300,000 (US$870,000) and 5 to undertake contracts up to YD 2,000,000
(US$5,800,000). They work predominantly for private interests but the
Government agencies normally invite those considered qualified to compete
for public sector building projects with the Public Corporation for Con-
struction and Industrial Installation and Governorate Corporations for
Building Works. None of these private contractors can undertake road works
in any major way and, until recently, as most were over-committed, they
were not interested in developing road capabilities. However, with remit-
tances and building activities now declining, the larger contractors may
participate in small road maintenance and construction contracts.
2.24     A Construction Supervision Department was established in the HA in
1985. Techr.1cal assistance experts under the Third Highway Project and the
Roads Flood Reconstruction Project advised on methods and organization of
construction supervision. Under the Fourth Highway project, the construc-
tion supervision consultants continue the assistance to develop the HA's
supervision capabilities particularly through on the job training of staff.
I. Maintenance
2.25     The HA's Maintenance Department has presently an establishment of
375, one-third of which is employed in asphalt production and overlay
works. Maintenance operations in Aden, Lahej and Abyan are controlled by



- 12 -
the Director of the Maintenance Department. The Mukalla District, with
over 150 staff, the largest, until recently was headed by a district
manager reporting directly to the HA's Director General but is now being
incorporated into the Maintenance Department. Overlay capabilities in
Aden, Mukalla and Shuqra (which since late 1985 belongs to the Department)
are relatively well developed. However, routine maintenance is not
adequately organized and lacks basic equipment and skilled personnel.
Thus, while overlay works are generally proceeding satisfactorily, routine
maintenance is often confined to emergency operations and other works
necessary to keep roads open.
2.26     The Mechanical Department operates the Central Workshop at
Majdalla (Aden), which, with a staff of about 200, fulfills the function of
a Central Base workshop for the HA's vehicle and equipment fleet of about
1000 units. Majdalla has five large, but dilapidated steel structure
buildings and is generally poorly equipped. Due in part to its lamentable
condition, Majdalla is not being utilized to the extent it should. Road
construction units outside Aden, have developed workshop facilities at
their camps to service and repair their equipment. On completion of the
construction projects, some of these facilities have been taken over by the
maintenance organization.
2.27     The Government recognizes the need to improve road maintenance and
with the help of the technical assistance consultants under the Third
Highway Project, prepared a road maintenance program. The program com-
prises routine maintenance, pavement reseals and overlays and the building
up of an organization to carry out the works. The program is described in
Annex II. The Fourth Highway Project includes the start-up phase of the
Road Maintenance Program which aims at setting-up the new Maintenance
Department, preparing buildings and providing initial equipment. Three
road maintenance districts will be established initially at Aden, Shuqra
and Mukalla--each headed by a district engineer, reporting to the Director
of Maintenance--and the planning section at headquarters will be strength-
ened. The Central Workshop will service and repair the maintenance equip-
ment fleet of Aden District and carry out major repairs for other districts.
District workshops at Shuqra and Riyan (Mukalla) supplemented by depot
workshops at Al Mahfidh and Haura would take care of most regional needs.
As part of the road maintenance program, equipment and spare parts manage-
ment systems will be set up. For reasons given in para. 3.20, the project
is about fifteen months behind schedule. Accordingly, during credit
negotiations, the relevant covenants of the Development Credit Agreement
and the Action Plan for the Fourth Project have been reviewed and updated
with a view to commencing road maintenance works in mid-1988 (para. 3.21).
J. Training
2.28     While MOCH's staffing situation has recently eased in numbers,
training needs remain pervasive both at the professional and the
technician/tradesman level. Over the years, the Government has been
persistent in its commitment to training, but training efforts did not
always reach the targets. On-the-job training of mechanical staff under



- 13 -
the First Highway Proj.ect (September 1971 to December 1974) was successful
with the few Yemeni candidates that were available. Also between 1971 and
1975, a UNDP grant and bilateral sources provided 16 overseas fellowships
for mid-level management and specialized trade candidates; the results were
mixed mainly because of language difficulties. Under the Second Highway
Project eight fellowships (and others financed by the AFESD) enhanced MOC's
theoretical and practical capabilities at middle management level. The
Third Highway Project included a training program for staff of the Indepen-
dent Construction Unit at the contractor's camp. Although its ambitious
targets could not be achieved, the program's main thrust was successful and
output increased. Also, under that project, three MOCH young professionals
with career prospects received fellowships and 12 staff members of MOCH
have attended short-term courses for training and retraining in their
fields of specialty.
2.29     All MOCH training activities, including the HA, are planned and
coordinated by the Director of the Cadres (Personnel) Department who
reports directly to the Minister. New MOCH staff recruited straight from
schools attend the Vocational Training Center (VTC) in Aden (para. 2.30),
while existing personnel are expected to be trained/upgraded by training
programs established by the Ministry's different authorities or corpora-
tions. However, lacking an effective centralized training organization
within MOCH and limited human, financial and physical resources, training
has generally been carried out on an ad hoc basis rather than in a
systematic way. The HA itself has only a small training section with one
tra...ning officer, and as yet, has carried out little or no training.
2.30     The VTC, established in 1971, is a vocational school which con-
ducts one- to two-year courses aimed at introducing school leavers to the
concepts of the main trades and skills related to the construction industry.
To date the VTC has trained some 1,470 students in trades such as carpentry,
plumbing, electrical and masonry and, in this, has performed a very useful
function.
2.31     The Government now wishes to carry out a Three-Year Training
Program (Annex III), which is to meet the long term staffing needs of the
new road maintenance organization and which is based on manpower develop-
ment studies prepared under the Third Highway Project. First, the program
will strengthen the institutional capability of MOCH/HA to prepare, imple-
ment, and supervise training programs. Second, and using MOCH/HA trainers,
the program is designed to improve the skills and knowledge of HA mainte-
nance personnel at all levels. The program includes: (a) the setting up
of a Training Steering Committee; (b) the strengthening and expansion of
MOCH/HA existing training organization; (c) the setting up of a mobile Road
Training Production Unit (RTPU) for the training of road supervisors,
equipment operators, and drivers; (d) the setting up of mobile Mechanical
Training Production Unit (MTPU) for the training of mechanical personnel;
(e) the purchasing of training equipment and materials; (f) the training of
HA counterparts and instructors; (g) the organization of periodic workshops



- 14 -
on training and maintenance management and related topics; (h) the limited
rehabilitation of the VTC and HA training center; and (i) fellowships
training abroad for selected MOCH/HA staff. The Fourth Highway Project
includes the first phase of this program covering all tasks preliminary to
actual training. In view of the delays that occurred, during credit nego-
tiations, the training-related covenant of the Development Credit Agreement
and the Action Plan for the Fourth Project have been updated with the
objective of starting actual training courses in mid-1988 (para. 3.21).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     The proposed project is the result of the continuing sectoral
dialogue between the Government and IDA on the priorities for a rational
development of the road system in support of PDRY's macro-economic develop-
ment objectives. Specifically, at negotiations of the Third Highway
Project, the Government requested IDA's assistance in setting up a road
maintenance system. Accordingly, a road maintenance program was appraised
as part of the Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1617-YDR) approved by the
Executive Directors on June 20, 1985, and includes the program's start-up
phase. The project now under consideration would cover the thrust of the
program.
B. Prolect Obiectives
3.02     The primary objective of the project would be to continue the
rational development of the road system. Following up on the Fourth
Highway Project, this Fifth Project specifically aims at:
(a) completing the establishment of an effective road maintenance
organization;
(b) creating an efficient, well-trained Highway Authority work
force; and
(c) creating a sound basis for planning the future development of
the road systems.
C. Proiect Description
3.03     In order to achieve these objectives, the proposed project
comprises:
(a)  a three-year time slice of a routine1' and periodic
maintenance program, including procurement of:
(i)    routine maintenance equipment; and
1/ Including the recurrent cost of routine maintenance.



- 15 -
(ii)    buildings and additional workshop equipment for a new
central workshop near Aden;
(b) reconditioning of an existing training center and its facili-
ties and provision of training equipment and materials;
(c) continuation of technical assistance for the implementation
of the road maintenance and training programs;
(d)  preparation of a road master plan; and
(e) repair of road flood damage.
During negotiations, the project objectives and description have
been confirmed with the Government (para. 5.01, a).
Road Maintenance Program
3.04     The Road Maintenance Program (Annex II), comprises routine main-
tenance, pavement reseals and overlays for PDRY's paved road network of
about 1934 km. The program was previously designed to cover the 1986-1990
period. Because of the delays under the Fourth Highway Project, it has
been updated to cover the years 1987 to 1991 (see Attachment 2 of
Annex II). In the light of the financial constraints the Government is
currently facing, only the 1987-1989 time slice of the program has been
included in the project.
3.05     To carry out routine maintenance, three road maintenance districts
are being established and will be operated (para. 2.27) with specialized
crews for patching, grading, embankments and structures. The Fourth Pro-
ject includes the building works at the different road maintenance centers
and sub-centers but only an initial tranche of road maintenance equipment
requirement. The proposed Fifth Highway project will provide for the
remainder of the equipment needed, including replacements during the
1987-1989 period. Major equipment items are trucks, tractors, water and
fuel tankers, graders and vibrating rollers. Under the project, the
Government would supply locally-manufactured furniture for offices and
staff accommodations in the Maintenance Districts. The project would
further provide for materials and tools for the manufacture and instal-
lation of traffic signs and for road marking.
3.06     To cater for the repair and maintenance needs of the maintenance
equipment fleet, the Fourth Project provides for workshop building works
and equipment (para. 2.27), including limited rehabilitation of the five
existing Central Workshop buildings at Majdalla (Aden). However, prior to
rehabilitation during 1985, one of these five buildings started to collapse
and further expert investigation revealed that also the others are no
longer structurally sound. Therefore, construction of a new small Central
workshop complex at Dar Sa'ad (near Aden) is now proposed under this
project.  To meet about 401 of the repair and maintenance needs1' of all
equipment and vehicle holdings of HA, including the road maintenance
1/ The balance of 60X would be undertaken at regional level.



- 16 -
equipment fleet, the new central workshop would require a total of 24
bays. Simple modular type buildings are anticipated. Some additional
workshop equipment is also needed.
3.07     Periodic maintenance needs were identified based on a comparison
of different maintenance strategies, always assuming improved routine
maintenance practices. During 1987-1989, a total of 193.1 km of overlays
and 173.3 km of reseals are to be carried out. The overlays include two
sections totalling 40.4 km which the Government is carrying out with its
own resources during 1987. The remaining overlay and reseal works repre-
sent the Highway Authority's complete periodic maintenance program for 1988
and 1989. During credit negotiations, the periodic maintenance program
1987-91 has been agreed with Government. Also, the Government agreed to
update and furnish to IDA for its concurrence annually the program for the
following five years (para. 5.03, b). The Fourth Highway Project provides
for strengthening of the new maintenance organization's planning function
to facilitate such updates.
Training Facilities, Equipment and Materials
3.08     The Training Program (Annex III) is designed to provide training
in road and equipment maintenance activities for some 400 HA staff con-
cerned with the road maintenance program. Practical training would be
given in a Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) using equipment of the
maintenance districts and a Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU)
using the facilities of the Project Workshops in Aden, Shuqra and Mukalla
and spare parts to be provided by the Highway Authority. To facilitate
classroom training, the Ministry of Construction and Housing's existing
Vocational Training Center (para. 2.30) will be expanded and improved under
the Project. In addition the Project will provide for the training pro-
gram, workshop equipment, tools, a mobile workshop, buses, audio-visual
training aids and technical books.
Technical Assistance
3.09     As a follow up to the Fourth Highway Project, continuation of
technical assistance is required to help with the initial operation of the
road maintenance planning (including pavement management) and cost account-
ing systems, and the implementation of the road maintenance and training
programs. In accordance with terms of reference agreed under the Fourth
Project, the proposed project provides for 128 man-months of expert
assistance for this purpose.
The Road Master Plan
3.10     The proposed Road Master Plan would cover a detailed five-year
program of road investment based on economic needs and a prospective
program of road investments up to the year 2005 for the primary, secondary
and tertiary (local) road networks including in the Aden and Mukalla urban
areas. The methodology to be used in its preparation and the programs
would be amenable to continuous updating. Consultants will prepare an



- 17 -
initial draft of the Plan and about 45 man-months services will be required.
During credit negotiations, the Master Plan terms of reference have been
agreed. The Government gave assurances that it would discuss and agree the
proposed Plan with IDA and that thereafter it would update and review
annually the Plan in consultation with IDA and carry out the activities
agreed to with IDA (para. 5.03, c).
Roads Flood Repair Works
3.11     Heavy rainfalls hit the southern part of the Arab Peninsula
between March 13 and April 8, 1986 and caused widespread damage to roads in
PDRY. The damage is most severe in Abyan Governate where the main coastal
highway was cut for several days. The Government immediately mobilized
existing road construction and maintenance resources to clean roads of
flood debris and to back-fill shoulders and embankments in the most criti-
cal locations. As a result, traffic movement has been resumed but condi-
tions remain difficult and perilous. Permanent repairs are therefore
urgent and the Government has requested IDA's assistance under the project
to deal with the emergency situation in Abyan Governate. On the coastal
road between Zinjibar and Am Ayn and the branch road from Shugra to Ahwar,
repairs will be carried over a total length of 50 km. The works involve
reconstruction of about 500 m of road which was completely washed out;
construction and reconstruction of five Irish crossings (totalling 260 m in
length) and of culverts and head walls; repairs of shoulders, embankment
and pavement; and construction of ditches and drainage channels together
with application of mortared rip-rap, gabions and rockfill to protect the
road and its structures against future floods. The Government is carrying
out the road flood repairs in Lahej and Hadramawt Governorates with its own
resources.
D. Status of Project Preparation
3.12     The road maintenance and training programs are based on studies by
consultants (Kampsax International A/S, Denmark) under the Third Highway
Project (Cr. 1144-YDR). The basic set-up of the new road maintenance and
training organizations has been agreed under the Fourth Highway Project and
will be formally established by January 31, 1988. Candidates for key
positions are being selected and will serve initially as counterparts to
the technical assistance consultants under the Fourth Project who are
expected to start work on October 1, 1987. The consultants will produce
detailed plans for the implementation of the programs by June 30, 1988.
These plans will form the basis for finalizing staff assignment, equipment
allocation and budgets. The building works at maintenance district camps
and subcamps and the initial tranche of road maintenance equipment are
under procurement and will be available in May 1988 when the technical
assistance consultants' contract wi!l be extended under the Fifth Highway
Project. Implementation of the programs will commence July 1, 1988. Pre-
paration of procurement documents for the bulk of the road maintenance
equipment and for the new workshop at Dar Sa'ad is being initiated so that
the road maintenance and training organizations will be fully established
and equipped by the third quarter of 1988. Soon after their arrival, the



- 18 -
technical assistance consultants will also refine existing designs for the
training facilities, and the bitumen overlays and reseals and prepare
bidding documents for the remaining items to be procured under the proposed
Fifth Highway Project. Contracts for all IDA-financed items are expected
to be awarded by July 1988. Procurement of the balance of periodic main-
tenance work, not financed by IDA would proceed as soon as the cofinancing
has been secured which is expected during the first half of 1988. Contract
documents for the road flood repairs are being prepared by HA with assist-
ance of construction supervision consultants under the Fourth Highway
Project and works are expected to start July 1, 1987.
E. Cost Estimates
3.13     The capital cost of the project is estimated at US$31.0 million
equivalent, of which $24.0 million will be in foreign exchange (Table 3.1).
Importation of goods for development purposes is duty free, but there is a
5s corporate tax on civil works and consulting contracts. Including
recurrent costs during the 1987-1989 period, the total project cost is
US$36.9 million equivalent.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: Estimatod Protect go&st
Foreign
as X of
LnCal    Foreign      Total          Loeal      Foreain       total Toal
-- -   YD millon                    ----- --USS million-  - ---
I. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Periodic haintenance
(a)  Overlays (193.1 km)                1.08       2.28        3.36           3.12       6.61         9.73            68
(b)  Reseals  (173.3 km)                p.4        LiZ         1.3    1       IZ nA9                 .S3.96           68
Subtotal                  1.52       3.20        4.72           4.39       9.30        13.69
2. EqUlpment. Spares A Material for:
(a)  Training                                      0.09       0.09                       0.27         0.27           100
(b)  Routine Maintenance                 -         1.03        1.03            -         3.00         3.00           100
(c)  Furniture for Maint. Ctrs.         0.01       0.05       0.06           0.03        0.15         0.18            8o
(d)  Dar Sa'ad Workshop                  -         0.03       0.03             -         0.09         0.09           100
(e)  Road Side Furniture                           A i.21                                La.1  _      LAR            100
Subtotal                  0.01       1.41        1.42           0.03       4.10         4.13
3.  Recpnditionina of Training Center       0.01       0.04        0.07           0.07        0.12        0.19            63
4. par Salad Workshop
(a) Foundations                          0.07       0.11        0.18           0.20       0.32         0.52            63
(b)  Modular Buildings                    -         0.7°        0.11            _23                    2.0            100
Subtotal                  0.07       0.90        0.97           0.20       2.62         2.82
S.  T.A. for Maintenaneg and
Trainino iPhase II_                  0.05       0.49       0.54           0.15        1.42         1.57            91
6.  Master Plan                             0.02       0.15        0.17           0.05        0.45        0.50            90
7. Road Flood Repair
(a) Zinjibar-Shuqra-Am Ayn              0.34       0.79        1.13          0.98        2.30         3.28            70
(b) Shuqra-Ahwar                        0.02       0.06       0.08           0.07        0.15         0.22            70
(c) Other                               LAI D      LiZ        Oi .I 1          0                      Lai             70
Subtotal                  0.40       0.92        1.32           1.14       2.67         3.81
ease Cost 1/                            2.10       7.11       9.21           6.03       20.68        26.71            78
Contingoncies;
(a)  Physical 2'                        0.20       0.S1       0.71           0.58        1.47         2.05
(b)  Price 3'                           L.l5                  .LZa           RAM           .O 1.82
Subtotal I.               2.4S       8.25       10.70          7.05       23.98        31.03            78
II. RECURRENT COSTS
(Excl. Oepr.) 1987-89                1.24      0.64        1.88           3.60        1.85         5.45            34
C.ntlnoencias3L La.0                                                                   L 1  0i.
Subtotal II.              1.32       0.70       2.02            3.83       2.03         5.86
TOTAL                                                        laZma g5A  12.Z2  Ia Je" 3AA                             71
1/  In prices of 1986, except for the road flood repair works which are in prices of early 1987.
2/ lOX on items I.1. 3, 4 and 7.
2/  Based on foreign price increases of 12.0X in 1986, 3.0 in 1987 and 1.0 % p.a. in 1988 to 1990 and local price
increases of 3.0X p.a. for Items I.1. 2. 3. 4 and 7 and II.; and foreign and local price increases of 2.0X p.a.
for items I,S and 6.



- 20 -
3.14     The cost estimates of periodic maintenance works reflect the High-
way Authority's recent cost experience. The cost estimates for building
works reflect current construction rates in PDRY. The cost estimates for
the road flood repair works are based on an initial assessment of quanti-
ties and on unit prices from recent road construction contracts. The
maintenance and workshop equipment and modular building costs are based on
recent quotations. The cost estimates for consulting services are based on
current man-month costs in PDRY. In addition to these personnel costs, the
estimate for the technical assistance services includes the costs of office
space and operation, support staff and fellowship training.
3.15     The recurrent cost of present routine maintenance is estimated at
YD 407,000 (US$1,180,000 equivalent) per year; future cost is estimated at
YD 787,000 (US$2,282,000 equivalent), including the recurrent costs of the
training program of about YD 106,000 (US$307,000 equivalent) per year
(Annex II, Attachment 2).
3.16     During negotiations, the cost estimates were confirmed with the
Government (para. 5.01, b).
F. Financing
3.17     The proposed credit for SDR 13.1 (US$16.8 million equivalent)
representing about 542 of the project's capital cost, would meet about 70%
of its foreign exchange cost. The Government is financing with its own
resources about 40.4 km of overlays (para. 3.07) and flood repair works
(para. 3.11) at an estimated cost of US$2.7 million (of which US$1.9
million will be in foreign exchange) and will contribute furniture for
offices and staff accommodations (para. 3.05) at an estimated cost of
US$0.2 million (of which US$0.16 million will be in foreign exchange). The
Government has made a request to the Arab Fund to help finance the balance
of the foreign cost of US$5.1 million. The Arab Fund confirmed its inten-
tion to make a loan for the project in 1988. The financing plan is shown
in Table 3.2 below. The proposed credit would finance the foreign costs of
all (routine) maintenance and training related project items, about 86 km
of pavement overlays in Aden and between Shuqra and Am Ayn, about 44 km of
pavement reseals between Am Ayn and km 206, the road flood repair works and
the road master plan. The cofinancing would be applied to the foreign
costs of the remainder of periodic maintenance works in the project. The
Arab Fund views on the financing plarn were obtained and incorporated when
it was agreed at credit negotiations (para. 5.03, d).



- 21 -
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
1/            Source of Finance
Project Item                       Item Cost                  Co-fin-   Govern-
Local   Foreign   Total    IDA    ancing    ment
- US$ million ------------------
I. Investments
(i) Periodic Maintenance   5.25       11.28    16.53    4.54    5.11        6.88
(ii) Equipment & Material   0.03        4.50     4.53    4.30                0.23
(iii) Reconditioning of VTC  0.08        0.14     0.22    0.14                0.08
(iv) New Workshop            0.23       3.16     3.39    3.16                0.23
(v) Technical Assistance   0.16        1.49     1.65    1.49                0.16
(vi) Master Plan Study       0.05       0.47     0.52    0.47                0.05
(vii) Road Flood Repair       1.25       2.94     4.19    2.70                1.49
Sub-total      L.D5      23.8        .                          L
II. Recurrent Costs           3.83       2.03     5.86                        5.86
TOTAL       Q         iL32   16.8  
1/ Including contingencies.
3.18     During credit negotiations, the Government agreed that it will
meet about US$2.1 million of foreign cost and all local cost of the project
(para. 5.03, e). Much of the Government's foreign cost contribution would
be in terms of depreciation of equipment and facilities already imported
into the country. Since the cofinancing would be on a parallel basis and
the project components are relatively independent and since the Arab Fund
financed compciieixts are not scheduled to be undertaken before
June 30, 1988, no cross-effectiveness will be needed. However, to ensure
that the project will be implemented in its entirety and in a timely
fashion, the Association would reserve the right to suspend credit
disbursement in case the Arab Fund loan would not be effective by
June 30, 1988, and no acceptable substitute funding would be available from
other sources (para. 5.04, a).
3.19     The Government indicated that it could meet the recurrent cost of
the project (para. 3.14) from its own resources. During credit
negotiations, the Government confirmed this understanding (para. 5.03, e)
and agreed to annual reviews of the routine maintenance program and the
training program to determine the budget allocations required for the
following year (para. 5.03, f). Again, the Association would reserve the
right to suspend disbursement in case allocations for road maintenance
(including for periodic maintenance) and training acceptable to IDA have
not been included in MOCH's annual budget (para. 5.04, b).



- 22 -
G. Project Implementation
3.20     The Ministry of Construction and Housing through its Highway
Authority (HA) will be responsible for Project execution. The implemen-
tation of the Fifth Highway Project depends on progress of the Fourth
Project (para. 3.12). The Fourth Project is about 15 months behind
schedule as the Government initially focussed its efforts on obtaining
additional loans for the project (thus honoring the commitment given to IDA
that it would provide the funds needed in addition to the IDA credit to
finance the project); the procurement arrangements for the construction
component had to be changed by dividing construction of the Wasit-Beihan
road into two sections to permit financing on a parallel basis and pro-
curement in conformity with the respective requirements of IDA and the
cofinanciers; and implementation was disrupted by civil disturbances and a
change in the Government early in 1986. However, implementation of all
project components is now firmly underway (Annex I, para. 3). To avoid
future delays of the Fourth and the proposed Fifth Highway Project, the
Government has agreed to strengthen project management through employment
of an Implementation Advisor (Annex IV). Further, the combined implementa-
tion schedule (Chart II) and the consolidated Action Plan for the Fourth
and the proposed Fifth Highway Project (Annex IV) have been reviewed and
agreed during credit negotiations (para. 5.03, g). Lastly, in the light of
the experience under the Fourth Highway Project, the financing plan for the
proposed Fifth Highway Project has been firmed up at credit negotiations
(para. 3.16). To ensure that progress will be sustained, the signing of
consultant contracts for technical assistance in road maintenance and
training and for the road user charge study under the Fourth Highway Pro-
ject and the selection of consultants for the road master plan study under
this project would be conditions of credit effectiveness (para. 5.05, a and
b).
3.21     In line with the revised project implementation schedule and
Action Plan, the relevant covenants in the Development Credit Agreement for
the Fourth Project are being updated and amended as necessary. During
credit negotiations for the Fifth Highway Project, the Government agreed
that it will: (a) by March 31, 1988, complete the road user charge study
and, within six months thereafter, prepare a plan to implement agreed study
recommendations (paras. 1.12 and 5.02, a); (ii) by January 31, 1988, com-
plete the establishment of road maintenance districts in Aden, Shuqra and
Mukalla; of a cost accounting section in HA and of a training section in
MOCH and the appointment of district engineers and section chiefs
(paras. 2.16, 2.27, 2.31, and 5.02, b); by June 30, 1988, prepare for
review by IDA detailed plans for the implementation of the Road Maintenance
Program and the Training Program (paras. 2.27, 2.31, and 5.02,c).
3.22     Most of the activities under the Fifth Project will fall into CY
1988, with the technical assistance services and the periodic maintenance
works extending into CY 1989. All project components are scheduled for
completion by the end of 1989 (Chart II). However, to allow for unforeseen
circumstances, the Project completion date will be June 30, 1990. During
credit negotiations, the Government agreed to keep IDA informed of progress
through quarterly Progress Reports (para. 5.03, h).



- 23 -
H. Procurement
3.23     Procurement arrangements for the project will depend on the
financing plan. All IDA-financed items would be procured in accordance
wifh World Bank Guidelines; those financed by others on a parallel basis
would be procured in accordance with co-financiers' procedures, which are
satisfactory. Based on the financing plan shown in Table 3.2, the fol-
lowing procurement methods for IDA-financed items are proposed: The
(supply and erect) contract for the modular workshop buildings (US$2.8
million) and the major items of routine maintenance equipment (US$2.0
million) are large enough to interest foreign suppliers and would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Part of the
training equipment (US$0.2 million) (workshop equipment, mobile workshop
and mechanical tools) and the additional workshop equipment for Dar Sa'ad
(US$0.1 million) would be procured most economically if combined with the
workshop equipment under the Fourth Project and, be procured through ICB.
The balance of the routine maintenance equipment (and spare parts) is made
up of a large number of diverse vehicle and equipment items (US$1.3 mil-
lion) (Annex II, Attachment 10) and, as is being done under the Fourth
Highway Project, would be procured through international shopping with
quotations both from local representatives and overseas suppliers. The
same procedures would be applied to the balance of the training equipment
and materials (US$0.1 million) (three trainee buses, the audio-visual
training aids, technical books and publications) and the materials and
small tools for manufacture and installation of traffic signs and for road
marking (US$0.6 million). The value of contracts procured through inter-
national shopping would not exceed US$200,000 equivalent individually and
US$2,000,000 equivalent in aggregate. Of the 25 km overlays in Aden (of a
total value of US$2.0 million) proposed for IDA financing, 16.8 km are
contiguous sections; the balance is spread over four locations in different
parts of Aden. The other periodic maintenance works proposed for IDA
financing (61 km of overlay between Shuqra and Am Ayn and 44 km of reseal
from Am Ayn to km 206) are over 100 km away from Aden and would be carried
out under separate contracts (totalling about US$4.5 million).  These works
and the building works (of a total value of US$0.8 million) are unlikely to
be of interest to international contractors not already working in PDRY.
These contracts therefore would be bid locally in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA, under which foreign contractors in PDRY can bid
and who are currently being awarded contracts through LCB under the Fourth
Highway Project. In view of their urgency, the road flood repair works
(US$3.8 million) would be carried out under a negotiated unit-rate contract
satisfactory to IDA. Road construction contractors presently working in
PDRY have been approached and a joint venture between the Public Corpora-
tion for Road Construction and a foreign contractor which can mobilize
quickly has been selected.
3.24     All goods contracts over US$50,000 equivalent and works contracts
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more would be subject to IDA's
prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in a coverage of about
952 of the total estimated value of goods contracts and 1001 of works
contracts financed under the credit. The balance of contracts would be
subject to random post review after contract award.



- 24 -
3.25     For the maintenance and training technical assistance, it is
expected that, provided performance is satisfactory, the consultants
employed for the first phase (under the Fourth Highway Project) will be
retained for the second phase under the proposed Fifth Project. For the
Road Master Plan, consultants will be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines on the use of consultants. During negotiations, the procurement
arrangements for the project havt been agreed with the Government
(para. 5.03, i).
Table 3.3: Procurement Analysis
Procurement Method
Not                   1/
Project Item                ICB      LCB    Other       Applicable   Total Cost
…-------------- US$million -------------------
Periodic Maintenance                   6.5    7.7 3/         2.3 5'       16.5
(4.5)                               (4.5)
Equipment & Materials        2.3 2/           2.0 4/         0.2 6/        4.5
(2.3)            (2.0)                        (4.3)
Recon. of Training Ctr.                0.2                                 0.2
(0.1)                               (0.1)
Central Workshop             2.8       0.6                                  3.4
(2.8)    (0.4)                                (3.2)
Consulting Services                           2.2                          2.2
(2.0)                        (2.0)
Road Flood Repair                             3.8 7/         0.4 s'        4.2
(2.7)                        (2.7)
Total        5.1       7.3   15.7            2.9          31.0
(5.1)    (5.0)  (6.7)           (0.0)        (16.8)
1/ Tthese are only the project capital costs (including contingencies); in
addition, there will be routine maintenance and training activities at
an estimated total cost of $5.9 million equivalent over the 1987-1989
period which will not be contracted.
2/  Workshop equipment (US$0.3 million) in conjunction with package under
Highways IV.
3/ Cofinanced.
4/ International Shopping
5/ Works underway with Government financing.
6/ Furniture for offices and staff accommodation to be provided by
Government.
7/ Negotiated Contract.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed under the
proposed Credit.



- 25 -
I. Disbursement
3.26     With the exception of contracts valued at $50,000 or less, all
withdrawal applications will be fully documented. Disbursements against
contracts valued at $50,000 or less would be made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support expenditures
financed under SOE would be maintained by the HA and made available for
review by IDA representatives upon request in addition to being audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, these arrangements
have been confirmed (para. 5.03, j). The following disbursement schedule
is proposed:
Table 3.4: Proposed Disbursement Schedule
Credit Allocation       X of Expenditures
Category                 in SDR's            to be financed
1. Civil and building          5,450,000           68%
works
2.  Modular buildings,         4,900,000          100% of foreign expenditures
equipment and
materials
3. Consulting Services         1,500,000          100% of foreign expenditures
4.  Unallocated                1,250,000
Total               13,100,000
A revolving fund for SDR 2.0 million (about US$2.6 million equivalent),
corresponding to an average of four months of expenditure of the Credit
would be established by opening a special account. The special account
will be maintained with the National Bank of Yemen (NBY) for eligible
expenditures under the Development Credit Agreement, in accordance with IDA
procedures (para. 5.03, k). Retroactive financing in an amount not exceed-
ing SDR 0.75 million (about US$1.0 million equivalent) would be allowed for
eligible expenditures incurred after May 15, 1987, for the road flood
repair works under the project.
3.27     The estimated cumulative quarterly disbursement schedule shown in
Annex V has been confirmed during credit negotiations (para. 5.01, c). The
schedule assumes that disbursements from the Credit would be completed in
four years and a half, which is one year and a half later than the project
completion date to allow for the time lag between implementation and
disbursement. This disbursement period is considerably shorter than the
historical Bank disbursement profile for Sector Investment and Maintenance
Loans showing an average disbursement period of eight years, with 76%
disbursed after five years (Chart III). However, this deviation is deemed
to be justified in view of: (a) the much smaller size of the proposed
project as compared to average highway sector and maintenance project;
(b) PDRY's excellent implementation performance under the Third Highway
Project (Credit 1144-YDR) and the Roads Flood Reconstruction Project



- 26 -
(Credit 1295-YDR), with completion in four years and two-and-a-half years
respectively (Annex I, para. 2); and (c) the high proportion (over 402) of
the credit allocated to equipment and material purchases in the first year
of project implementation which would entail quick disbursements. Disburse-
ments under the Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1617-YDR) are lagging for
reasons which in part were beyond the control of the project implementation
agency and which could not be foreseen; other causes which contributed to
the delay have been taken into account in the formulation of the proposed
Fifth Project to avoid repetition (para. 3.20).
J. Budgeting, Accounting and Audit
3.28     All highway project investments are included in the annual capital
budget of the Ministry of Construction and Housing (MOCH). Each project is
broken down and controlled by the following categories: (a) studies and
Designs, (b) Equipment and Machinery, (c) Personnel Emoluments, (d) Fuel,
and (e) Materials and other Expenses. Quarterly and annual statements show-
ing actual versus budget are prepared for each project under the above cate-
gories. Thus, expenditures for IDA-financed projects are shown separately
in the books of account.
3.29     All IDA-financed highway projects are controlled by the Planning
Unit of the MOCH and coordinated with the Highway Authority. Each project
has a project manager who maintains an imprest fund in the field for all
project-related expenditures. This fund is reimbursed periodically by the
Planning Unit. The project manager also prepares the monthly engineering
certificate for work executed during the month and the statement of expendi-
tures which are sent to the Administration and Finance Department of the
MOCH for verification and pre-audit and subsequent reimbursement by the
Planning Unit. The above department and unit also maintain the accounting
records of all expenditures under each project.
3.30     The MOCH has an internal audit section which pre-audits all dis-
bursements. The Central Organization of Control and Audit (COCA), which is
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, also audits and certifies the
Ministry's annual expenditures under the various budget heads. The above
arrangements for the record keeping and internal check and control of
project expenditures are satisfactory to the Association. During credit
negotiations, assurances have been obtained that auditing of project
accounts and of the Special Account with the NBY will be completed on time
and that the audited accounts will be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.03, 1).
K. Environmental Impact
3.31      No adverse impact on the environment is expected from the pro-
ject. The road maintenance program will actually be beneficial to the
quality of the environment as it would keep roads in a clean and orderly
condition, improve traffic flow and increase road safety.



- 27 -
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
4.01     Over the last 15 years, PDRY's paved road system has more than
quadrupled in length and the motor vehicle fleet has almost tripled. Road
transport has become the country's most important mode of transport and has
been instrumental in unifying the country, mobilizing productive resources
and building a national economy. However, institutional, policy and human
development of the subsector is lagging behind physical progress. Thus,
while syatem expansion continues to gradually link the remaining isolated
yet productive areas, this project (together with the institutional com-
ponent of the Fourth Highway Project) seeks adjustments to promote sustain-
ability of the subsector in an economic environment which is likely to be
less favorable in coming years than it has been in the recent past.
4.02     Specifically, the project would bring the Highway Authority's road
maintenance capacity (including the training of the staff needed) to a
level where it can cope with the requirements of the enlarged road network
and increased traffic; improve cost accounting, planning and budgeting for
road works; determine necessary adjustments to road user charges to improve
resource allocation and mobilize badly needed financial resources; and
lastly, lay a firm basis for the rational development of the system in the
future.
4.03     The project will benefit the Government since as a result of the
road maintenance program the need for frequent and costly road reconstruc-
tion is reduced and road transport operators and motorists who will enjoy
lower vehicle operating costs due to better road conditions. Rationaliza-
tion of road expenditures and adjustments in road user charges made possible
through the project will contribute to making the roads subsector finan-
cially more self-suificient. The benefits of the emergency road flood
repair works are self evident and have not been quantified. Not only would
these works restore normal and safe driving conditions, but repair of the
damaged sections is required prior to commencement of the project overlays.
B. Road Maintenance Program
4.04     The Road Maintenance Program described in Annex II is based on a
comparison of alternative maintenance strategies. It defines the improved
routine maintenance and the pavement reseal and overlay actions required
during 1987 to 1991 in order to arrive at lowest transport cost (comprising
the cost of routine and periodic maintenance and vehicle operation).
Improvements in routine maintenance will require a substantial enlargement
of the road maintenance organization, reassignment of staff, investments in
additional facilities and equipment, staff training, more efficient working
procedures and better planning and management systems. The Fourth Highway
Project covers the build-up of the new maintenance organization, providing
both the physical facilities and part of the equipment needed for the main-
tenance program and technical assistance to implement institutional reforms
and set-up the training program. This Fifth Project would provide the
remainder of building and equipment investments, further technical assist-
ance and implementation of the thrust of the maintenance and training
programs.



- 28 -
4.05     The building and equipment investment under this project is an
integral part of the total investment in the road maintenance organiza-
tion. This investment is considered well justified since the improved
routine maintenance program it serves has a high economic return. As shown
below, the benefit-cost ratio for improved routine maintenance including
reseals of the urban and inter-urban network over the 1987-1991 program
period is 1.5:1. Benefits are based on forecasts of road conditions and
vehicle operating costs under existing and improved maintenance practices.
The incremental cost of the program has been calculated using estimates of
the economic costs (comprising the cost of staff, equipment operation,
materials, depreciation of equipment and facilities and overheads and the
relevant portion of the cost of technical assistance and training) of the
existing and the increased maintenance effort.
Table 4.1 Costs and Benefits of Maintenance Program
-------- Costs ------------          -------- Benefits ---------
Year    Actual Value   Present Value 1/      Actual Value   Present Value 1/
…Y------ --------------YD Million-------------------------
1987        0                0                   0                0
1988        1.63             1.30                 1.31            1.04
1989        1.84             1.31                 2.54            1.81
1990        0.54             0.34                 3.20            2.03
1991        2.84             1.61                 3.23            1.83
Total    6.85             4.56                10.28            6.71
Benefit/Cost Ratio = 1.5:1
1/ At a discount rate of 12%
4.06     For the 153 km of new pavement strengthening works included in the
road maintenance program, rates of return have been estimated for individual
road sections again based on forecasts of road conditions arnd vehicle
operating costs over a ten year period with and without the proposed invest-
ments. Improved road maintenance practices were assumed in both scenarios.
The results are compiled in Attachment 4 of Annex II. The lowest economic
return is 12% in the first year and 17% over the 10 year life of the invest-
ment. The composite rate of return on the maintenance program is 76%.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that the net present value (at a discount
rate of 12%) of the maintenance program would turn negative if program
benefits were 83% lower or program costs 500% higher than estimated. Vari-
ations of this magnitude are not expected.
4.07     No attempt has been made to quantify the benefits of the technical
assistance and training not directly associated with the road maintenance
program and of the road masterplan study. However, since these investments



- 29 -
will contribute to improved administrative and operational efficiency of
the HA and better resource allocation in the subsector, they are deemed
eminently justified.
C. Proiect Risks
4.08     The main risk to efficient project implementation and thus to
realization of the full project benefits, is financial. IDA has actively
supported the Government in its search for cofinancing, and a commitment
from a cofinancier to meet the foreign financing gap of the capital costs
of the project, has been received. However, the recurrent budget for road
maintenance and training needs to be doubled and be sustained at this high
level. The Government considers that it can finance the budget increase
from its own resources despite its tight financial position. The Govern-
ment's strong commitment to the project and the monitoring procedures and
remedies built into it, mitigate the risk of delays in the provision of
funds.
V. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During Credit negotiations, the following matters have been
discussed and confirmed with the Government:
(a) project objectives and description (para. 3.03);
(b) project cost estimates (para. 3.16); and
(c) credit disbursement schedule (para. 3.27).
5.02     The assurances obtained from the Government under the Fourth
Highway Project have been reviewed and the Development Credit Agreement is
being amended with a view to completing:
(a) the road user charge study by March 31, 1988 (paras. 1.12 and
3.21);
(b) the establishment of the road maintenance districts of a cost
accounting section in HA and of the training section in MOCH
by January 31, 1988 (paras. 2.16, 2.27, 2.31, and 3.21); and
(c) detailed plans for the implementation of the Road Maintenance
and Training Programs by June 30, 1988 (paras. 2.27, 2.31 and
3.21).
5.03     During negotiations, the Government agreed:
(a) to continue to control vehicle dimensions and weights
(para. 2.20);
(b) to the periodic maintenance program and to update and furnish
to IDA for its concurrence annually programs for the fol-
lowing five years (para. 3.07);



- 30 -
(c) to terms of reference for the Road Master Plan, to review
with IDA the Road Master Plan, to update and review annually
the Plan in consultation with IDA and to carry out the
activities agreed to with IDA (para. 3.10);
(d) to the project financing plan, considering the views of the
prospective cofinancier (para. 3.17);
(e) to meet about US$2.1 million of foreign cost and all local
capital cost of the project, the recurrent cost of the
maintenance and training programs (paras. 3.18 and 3.19);
(f) to review annually with IDA the routine maintenance and
training programs to determine budget allocations for the
following year (para. 3.19);
(g) to the combined Implementation Schedule and the consolidated
Action Plan for the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects
(para. 3.20);
(h) to submit quarterly progress reports to IDA (para. 3.22);
i)  to the procurement arrangements (para. 3.25);
(j) to the arrangements for the use of statements of expenditures
(para. 3.26);
(k) to maintain a special project account (para. 3.26); and
(1) to submit project accounts and audit reports to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.30).
5.04     The Association would reserve the right to suspend credit dis-
bursement in case:
(a) the Arab Fund loan for the project would not be effective by
June 30, 1988 (para. 3.18); and
(b) allocations for road maintenance and training acceptable to
IDA have not been included in MOCH's annual budget
(para. 3.19).
5.05     The conditions of credit effectiveness will include that:
(a) consultants contracts have been signed for the technical
assistance in road maintenance and training and the road user
charge study under the Fourth Highway Project; and
(b) consultants have been selected for the road master plan study
under this project (para. 3.20).
5.06     In view of the above, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of 13.1 Special Drawing Rights (US$16.8 million equivalent) to the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen on the usual terms.



PEOPL8ES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEJEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HI6IIIAY PMJECT
Transport Sector nvastmants
FFYP 1974-1lOfl         Transition Years                      SFYO 1981-1985                            TFYP 1986-1990
iActuap                 1979-t   (Actuall        fP1annedl Actual)                                      (FirstDraft)
Y0 Iilh.oa        &    YD XHill,n "               Ya yeti1onz      I         YD Millian'             S ILflln''           S
Roads                            29.9        56.5      15.6         49.4         40.0         54.0          4.5           41.0         60.3           56.0
Road Transport                    6.2         l.z       2.6A         8 2          9.1         12.L           .6L          -L.2         11.J           10 
Subtotal                      36.1        68.2      18.2         57.6         49.1         66.3         64.1           48.2         71.9           66.6
Airports and Aviation             7.3        13.8      12.4         39.2          8.4         11.4         40.7           30.6          1.4            1.3
Ports and Shiipping              9L.         I.0       1.0Q         i            ILA          XLI 2aI                    2LL.Z         HiL            3L1.
Total Transport Investment       S2.8        100.0    31.6        100.0          74.0        100.0        133.0          100.0        107.7          100.0
Total Development Expenditures  194.fl                 126.2                    50A.0                     71S.2                       614.4 
Transport Investment as
Z of Developwent Expenditures  27.1                  25.0                      14.5                      18.6                        17.S
Source: Ministry of Plaming
'' At current prices
2' At constant 1980 prices
3' At constant 198S5 prices
(74890)



- 32 -
Table 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evolution of the Road Network
Paved Roads
Year            Asphalt    CobbleStone       Total    Tracks
YD Million -_
1973              515          203             718       5104
1974              613          203             816       5474
1975              720          203             923       5709
1976              826          234            1060       5572
1977              957          234            1191       5533
1978             1006          234            1240       5614
1979             1085          255            1340       5614
1980             1220          255            1475       5542
1981             1314          255            1569       5448
1982             1520          255            1775       5478
1983             1596          255            1851       9081'
1984             1674          255            1929       9004
1985             1890          255            2145       9004
1986             1890          255            2145      9004
Source:  Highway Authority
The length of tracks was revised in 1983 in the light of the
findings of the Transport Sector Study
7489D



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Develooment of Motor Vehicle Fleet 1975-84
Passenger
Cars & Taxis                       Buses                                 Trucks                      All Vehicles
Units 8       Growth (X p.a.)    Units &         Growth (2 p.a.)    Units &        Growth (% p.a.)    Units &          Growth (X p.a.)
Distribution                       Distribution                      Distribution                      Distribution
Governorate    in 1984         197S-80 1980-84    in 1984   -  1975-80 1980-84    in 1984          1975-80 1980-94    in 1984          1975-80 1980-84
Aden            18,381         5.4    10.3           868         27.3       11.3      8,057        15.8       10.8     27,306           8.4        10.5
( 74.7X)                           (70.42)                           t 32.2%)                          ( 53.72)
Lahej              726         5.7    16.3            88         28.6        4.4      4.893        15.1       12.5      5,707          14.0        12.8
(  3.0%)                           (  7.12)                          ( 19.6X)                          ( 11.2X)
Abyan              985         5.6      5.6           65         31.9       19.4      4,062        18.8       10.8      5.112          15.0         9.7
(  4.02)                           (  5.32)                          ( 16.32)                          ( 10.02)
Shabwah            982        27.4    21.1           -              -         -       2,720        17.4        6.8      3,702          18.2         9.8
(  4.02)                             -                               ( 10.92)                          (  7.32)
Hadramawt        3,480        19.4    21.0           212         12.9       16.0      4.326        20.4       12.1      8.018          20.5        15.7
( 14.12)                          ( 17.22)                           t 17.3)                           ( 15.82)
Al Mahrah           53           -     90.8          -              -         -          936         -        27.9       989             -         29.3
(  0.22)                             -                               (  3.7%)                          (  2.02)
Total           24,607         6.9    11.9           1233        26.5       11.8     24,9"4        17.6       11.3     50,834          11.8        11.6
(100.0%)                          (100.02)                           (100.02)                          (100.0%)
Source:  Central Statistical organization
7489D
wj



PEOPLE'S D C(RATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PRDtECT
Road Investments durng Second Five-Year Plan tSFYP)
1981-85         Carry-over
Constr.                 Total         SFYP          to 1986-90        Source of
Proiect                              ftriod    Lens5          -ost-       Esx nditures       TfYP           Finance
( km)         (YD m)        (YO u)         (YO u)
A. Iiorovement of Existing Roads
Aden - Tati                                      1978-83     365         12.0          5.9                             Arab Fund (AF)
foads Flood Reconstruction                       1982-85      40          5.8          5.8                            IDA, AF, OPEC Fund
Zinjibar bridge Reconstruction                   1983-8s      -           2.1          2.1                             PR China (PRC)
Reconstruction of bridges in Aden                1984-87      -           S.1          2.3            2.8              Gertan Democratic Republic
Overlay program                                  1981-85     llQ          31           3.1.           -                 (6DR)
Sub-total (A)                41S         28.1         19.2(34%)       2.8
S. new Construction
MLkalla - Wadi Hadramawt                         1975-83    3S6          15.8          4.8                             IDA, Kuwait Fund (KF)
Shuqra - Ahwar                                   197S-82     116          6.3          0.8                             Libya
Ash Shihr - Sayut                                1981-85     207         10.7         10.7                             PlC
Establish*. of Naqabah-Risab Coastr. Unit        1982         -           2.9          2.9                             OPEC Fund
Naqabah - Misab                                  1983-8S      92          9.8          9.8                             IDA, KF, OPEC Fund
Nisab - wasit                                    1985         34          2.0          2.0                             Governrent
hobat Oukeim - Habilein                          1983-85      34          3.5          3.5                            G6verns nt
Sabir - Al Waht                                  1983        3.S          0.2          0.2                             Govertmmnt
Shuhair - Ghail Sawazir                          1984-85      12          0.6          0.6                             Govemn,ent
Sayun - Tarim                                    198S-87      33          1.3         OS             0.8              Government
Wadi Sana bridge                                 1985-87      -                       -.4  0t                          PRC
Sub-total(B)              887.5          54.5        36.2(64%)        1.8
C. Road Studies                                                               1.0         1.0              -
Total                 1302.5          83.6        56.4"            4.6
Source: Highway Authority
" This figure varies slightly from the YD 54.5 million indicated by the Mlinistry of Planning (see Table 1)
7489
|l
4'



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Proiects Proposed for Third Five-Year Plan
Expected
Starting    Completion   Source of
Proiect                                Lenoth      CosI           Date          Oa°te       Finance
km       YO million
A. Care Pronects
1. Improvement of Existing Roads
Completion of Aden Bridge Reconstr. Program           -        2.8           1984          1987        German Democratic Republic
Reconst. of Structures on Am Ayn-Mukalla Rd.         -         2.5           1986          1988        PR China (PRC)
Road Maintenance Program                             -         8.4           1987          1989        IDA, Arab Fund (AF)
Sub-total (A.1)    -         13.7( 31X)
2. New Construction ProJects
Completion of Sayun-Tarim Rd.                       33         0.8           1985          1987        Government
Completion of Wadi Bana Bridge                        -        1.0           198S          1987        PRC
Habilein - Labous - Al Had Rd.                      81        11.2           1986          1990        Gov.. Algeria, (PRC approached)
Zinjibar - Al Husn - Batais Rd.                     32         3.5           1986          1987        Government
Wasit-Beihan Rd.                                    126        8.7           1987          1989        IDA, AF, OPEC Fund
Urban Roads                                         -A _kA4                  1987          1988        Kuwait Fund
Sub-totas  (A.2)  278        29.8( 69X)
Sub-total (A)    278         43.5(100%)
8. Other Planned Road Construction
Lawdar - Mukeiras Rd.                               32         5.3           tbd.          tbd.        AF and Islamic Dev. Bk. approached
Al Waht - Tor Al Baha Rd.                           79         4.7           tbd.          tbd.        tbd.
Habilein - Ohala - Sanah Rd.                        32         3.8           tbd.          tbd..       tbd.
Tabut - Al Gheida Rd.                               Ju        _.             tbd.          tbd.        tbd.
Sub-total (B)    181         16.8
Total             4S9        60.3
' In prices of 1985/1986.
2 To be determined.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Geometric Design Standards for Paved Roads
Class I          Class II                Class III              Class IV                Class V
ADT               so - 250         250 - 400               400 -750               750 - 1500              Over 1500
Terrain                M        R    F       M        R      F       M        R      F      M        R      F       M        R     F
Design Speed           30       40   60      40       65    80       50       70    80      60       80    95       70       90    100
(Km/Hr)
Width of
Pavement               6        6    6       6        6      6       7.3      7.3   7.3    7.3       7.3   7.3    7.3        7.3   7.3
Shoulder Width (m)   0.5        1.25 1.25   1.0        1.25  1.25   1.0       1.5   1.5    1.5       2.4   2.4    1.5        3.0   3.0
Total Width (m)        7.0      8.5  8.5    8.0       8.5   8.5    9.3        10.3  10.3   10.3    12.1  12.1   10.3    13.3  13.3
Maximum Grade(%)       10       8    6       9        9      7       8        6     5       8        6      5       7        5     4
Minimum Horizontal
Radius (m)                      40   115    40        135   240    80         240   360    115       240   400    180        360   440
Stopping Sight
Distance (m)           30       40   65      40       85    95       55       95    115    65        95    125    80         115   145
Meeting Sight
Distance (m)           70       90   140    90        180   200    100        200   240    140       200   260    170        240   300
Key to Terrain:  M = Mountainous
R = Rolling
F = Flat
Source: Highway Authority
0'



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Experience with Past Lending
1.       IDA's involvement in the transport sector goes back to 1970 when
the Government first requested assistance to rationalize development of the
then sparse road system centered around Aden and to strengthen road insti-
tutions. In response, the First Highway Project (Credit 240-YDR) and
Engineering Credit (S12-YDR) provided technical assistance, maintenance and
workshop equipment, spare parts, and feasibility and engineering studies.
The project assisted the Government to set up the Highway Authority and to
draw up a concept for road system development that has been followed remark-
ably closely through successive development plans. However, the projeet's
institutional and operational impact was constrained by the shortage of
indigenous staff. The Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 1089
of March 27, 1978) concluded that institutional building and operational
improvement is a long-term process that needs to be pursued over several
projects. This is being done.
2.      UJnder the Second Highway Project (Credit 560-YDR), the Government
created a construction unit which implemented the road construction works,
after international competitive bidding failed to produce an acceptable
bid. Apart from helping the Government to construct a road to an important
agricultural area (the Wadi Hadramawt) the project also provided continued
technical assistance to the road administration. The Project Completion
Report (Report No. 5439 of January 30, 1985) found that under the project
construction capabilities were successfully established in PDRY and, through
its technical assistance and training components, the professional skills
with the Ministry of Construction were enhanced. Under the Third Highway
Project (Credit 1144-YDR), the construction method was refined, based on
the lessons learnt under the Second Project. Using foreign construction
management consultants, the construction unit which was created as an
independent construction unit (ICU) by the Government decree, won the
contract for the Naqabah-Nisab road under ICB by a substantial margin and
performed very well. The ICU now has become part of the National Road
Construction Corporation. The project's technical assistance component
helped prepare the Fourth Highway Project and this proposed Fifth Project.
Under the Roads Flood Reconstruction Project (Credit 1295-YDR), IDA
assisted in implementing a road reconstruction program of major damages
caused by heavy floods of 1982 and 1983. However, the project also had an
important longer term perspective in that a regional road maintenance cen-
ter was rehabilitated to initially do the reconstruction works and later
road maintenance. The project also included the Transport Sector Study
(paras.1.10-1.12). Both Credit 1144-YDR and Credit 1295-YDR have been



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
fully disbursed without extension of their respective closing dates. A
combined completion report for these projects is under preparation.
3.       IDA's most recent Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1617-YDR, approved
on June 20, 1985) includes (i) the extension of the Naqabah-Nisab road to
provide access to Wadi Beihan where IDA is also supporting an agricultural
project (Credit 1145-YDR) and (ii) the start-up phases of road maintenance
and training programs, the thrust of which would be subject of this pro-
posed Fifth Project. The Fourth Project is about 15 months behind schedule
but implementation of all project components is now firmly underway; the
Government is in the process of awarding contracts for the road construc-
tion component; proposals for consulting services (technical assistance,
road user charge study, and construction supervision) have been received
and are being evaluated; and procurement of building works and equipment is
underway.
4.       Apart from the road projects, there was one other IDA supported
transport project in PDRY: the Aden Port Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 584-YDR) which financed equipment and technical assistance to
enable the port to provide again bunkering and ship services to inter-
national traffic after reopening of the Suez Canal in 1975. The Project
Performance Audit Report (Report No. 5982 of December 20, 1985) found that
this project did not wholly achieve its original purpose as ship servicing
traffic did not return to Aden to the extent expected but some revision in
scope helped the port cope with an unforeseen increase in domestic port
traffic in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
5.       All of IDA's transport projects in PDRY drew substantial cofinanc-
ing from other donors.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Road Maintenance Program
1.       The objective of the program is to implement measures needed to
preserve PDRY's 1,934 km of paved roads (Attachment 1) and to strengthen
the road maintenance organization so that road maintenance efforts will be
continued on a regular and systematic basis thereafter.
2.       The program (Attachment 2) comprises routine maintenance, pavement
reseals and overlays. It is based on a study, including traffic and axle
load surveys and Benkelman beam deflection testing of selected road sec-
tions, carried out by the technical assistance consultants under the Third
Highway Project and additional analysis done in the Bank using the Road
Deterioration Model (RDM SAS Al). A comparison of three alternative
strategies&' for improved maintenance showed that pavement strengthening
of about 25 km of urban roads in Aden and of the coastal road from Aden to
Am Ayn is overdue. In addition, pavement strengthening is needed soon on
the coastal road between Mukalla and Ash-Shihr and in the escarpment
section of the Wadi Hadramawt road between Riyan and km 67. Pavement
resealing is needed on the coastal road between Am Ayn and Naqabah (173 km).
The Government is proceeding with the overlay program and requested that
the Aden urban sections, the coastal road from Shuqra to Am Ayn (60.7 km),
the Riyan - km 67 section of the Wadi Hadramawt road as well as the pave-
ment reseal between Am Ayn - Naqabah be included under the Fifth Highway
Project and be scheduled for execution in 1988 and 1989 (Attachment 3). No
other periodic maintenance works are planned for these years. In addition,
routine maintenance needs to be impro"ed to achieve the lowest total trans-
port cost (comprising the cost of periodic and routine maintenance and of
vehicle operation).
3.       The economic returns on the overlay sections under the project
have been determined on the basis of the savings in vehicle operating costs
and road maintenance costs, assuming improved road maintenance practices in
both the with and the without scenarios (Attachment 4). The routine main-
tenance program and pavement reseals have been evaluated together, compar-
ing network deterioration under current and improved maintenance practices
(Attachment 5). The corresponding vehicle operating costs on the network
and the savings from improved maintenance are shown in Attachment 6. The
1/ With help of the RDM, the overlay works were determined which are
required to maintain pavements of three levels of roughness (QI 40,
QI 50 and QI 65). Reseals were scheduled, whenever surface cracking
reaches 301.  Improved routine maintenance wvan anntirnA 4n nil l



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
vehicle operating cost formulae used in the analyses are given in Attach-
ment 7. There are no firm data for existing maintenance expenditures.
Using cost data prepared for the improved maintenance program, the incre-
mental resource requirements are estimated as follows:
Routine
Maintenance      Reseals1'    Total
------------- YD million ------
1988         0.29              1.34         1.63
1989         0.54              1.30         1.84
1990         0.54              -            0.54
1991         0.54              2.30         2.84
4.       To carry out this maintenance program, the Highway Authority's
Maintenance Department needs to be reorganized and enlarged. Its asphalt-
ing resources have become part of by the National Road Construction
Corporation which will carry out reseal and overlay work on a contract
basis. The new Maintenance Department would continue to be responsible for
all aspects of maintenance but execute only routine maintenance. To do
this effectively, initially three maintenance districts -/ will be set up
at Aden, Shuqra, and Mukalla - each headed by a district engineer reporting
to the Director of Maintenance - and the Planning section at headquarters
will be strengthened (Attachment 8). In planning the physical side of the
new organization, the consultants took account of existing equipment
suitable for maintenance and available workshop facilities, including the
items provided under IDA's Second Highway Project (Cr. 560-YDR) and Roads
Flood Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1295-YDR).
5.       In each district, there will be specialized crews for patching,
embankment, grading and structures. Their main functions would be:
-  patching crew:        pot hole patching, crack sealing, edge
ravelling repair, minor surfacing works, road
markings.
-  grading crew:        grading shoulders, machine cleaning of drains
and cutting new drains.
1/ These are the costs of reseals that would be needed if no pavement
strengthening was done.
2/ A fourth district will be added at Al Gheida when the road system is
extended to the eastern part of the country.



- 41 -
ANNEX rI
Page 3 of 4
-  embankment crew:      cleaning of drains and culverts, bridge
waterway cleaning, erosion control, minor
drainage improvements.
-  structures ciew:      repair of bridges, culverts, other structures
and road furniture, repainting of bridge
rails, other exposed steel work, kilometer
posts and road signs, maintenance of camps
and depots.
The composition of crews in the districts varies in accordance with local
needs. The responsibilities of crews and their staff and equipment require-
ments are summarized in Attachment 9.  Excluding its mechanical sections,
the Maintenance Department will have an establishment of 373 staff and 137
equipment units. Productivity has been assumed at levels that can be
expected with reasonable work planning and management but will initially
not afford an optimum level of maintenance. However, impiovements are
expected over time as a result of a staff training program (Annex III),
better work organization and management, incentive pay schemes and other
measures planned.
6.    The maintenance equipment requirements have been assessed on the basis
of the physical outputs needed in each district considering length, condi-
tion, construction standards of roads and traffic levels. Bitumen hot mix
for patching can be purchased in Aden, Shuqra and Mukalla, small asphalt
plants will be used in other locations. Almost all maintenance equipment
requirements will have to be purchased new. A detailed equipment list is
shown in Attachment 10 indicating the items included under the Fourth High-
way Project. Spare part requirements have been estimated on the basis of
20% of the value of existing equipment and 15% of new equipment. An equip-
ment replacement schedule to be reviewed annually with the Government is
given in Attachment 11.
7.    The Mechanical Department's Central Workshop will service and repair
the maintenance equipment of Aden district and carry out major repairs for
other districts. District workshops at Shuqra and Riyan (Mukalla) supple-
mented by depot workshops at Mahfidh and Haura will take care of most
regional needs. Attachment 12 summarizes the responsibilities of the
different workshops and related needs for staffing and for additional
installations and equipment. Estimated workshop equipment and tool
requirements which are being provided under the Fourth Highway Project, and
their costs are given in the Attachment 13.
8.    Preliminary assessments of needed rehabilitation, additions and new
construction of workshops, camp facilities and worker accommodations
included under the Fourth Highway Project, are given in Attachment 14.
Except in isolated areas, accommodations have been dimensioned for about
half of the workforce, assuming the other half would return home over-
night. Layouts of camp sites and typical drawings for building works



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
(using local construction technology) have been completed. The building
works are all covered under the Fourth Highway Project. Furniture for
offices and staff accommodations, estimated to cost YD 60,000, have been
included under the Fifth Project.
9.       As mentioned above, in designing the infrastructure for the road
maintenance program, the consultants tried to make the greatest possible
use of existing facilities, including the existing central workshop at
Majdalla in Aden. The Fourth Project therefore included allocations of
about YD 50,000 (Attachment 14) for rehabilitation and YD 28,600 (Attach-
ment 10) workshop equipment for Majdalla. However, since appraisal in
November 1984, one of the five buildings at Majdalla has started to
collapse and had to be closed. Based on an opinion provided by a struc-
tural expert, the Ministry of Construction and Housing believes chat the
others also have deteriorated to the extent that they are no longer struc-
turally sound. Because of Majdalla's location close to the sea and related
corrosion problems, the Ministry decided against rebuilding the workshop
and, based on ideas put forward by consultants, proposed that a new central
workshop be built at Dar Sa'ad outside Aden. This c3mponent was appraised
in June 1986. To cater for approximately 402 of the major repair and
maintenance needs of the Highway Authority's equipment and vehicle fleet of
about 1000 (including the road maintenance equipment), a small workshop
complex with 8 working bays for equipment and 16 for vehicles at a cost of
about YD 0.96 (US$2.8) million plus additional workshop equipment for about
YD 27,600 (US$80,000) has been included in the Fifth Highway Project. A
lay-out of the workshop complex is shown in Attachment 15 and z. complete
list of the workshop equipment to be purchased under the Fourth Project and
the proposed Fifth Project is given in Attachment 16.
10.      To make the new organization work, effective communication between
the Maintenance Department Headquarters, the Districts and sub-districts
and the field units is essential. To this end, radio communication equip-
ment of the type which has been used successfully under IDA's Roads Flood
Reconstruction Project (Credit 1295-YDR) at Shuqra would also be provided
to the other maintenance districts (Attachment 17). Additional equipment
is also needed to collect basic data for road maintenance planning. Fur-
ther, four small computers are required as implements for introducing
improved maintenance planning, cost accounting and equipment and spare
parts management systems. They are included under the Fourth Highway
Project and are being selected in consideration of the experience gained
with computers already in use in the Ministry of Construction, availability
of servicing in the area and availability of compatible software appro-
priate for the Maintenance Department needs. Lastly, materials and tools
for manufacture and installation of traffic signs and for road marking are
needed. They are being provided under the Fifth Project (Attachment 18).



- 43 -
Annex 1I
Attachment I
PEPLE' 5 OEItCAT   REPUULIC Of YERN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HI4iCY  PRJECT
Reads Included In Maintenance Proaram
A.  Aden Rnad Maintenanee District
Aden (Caltex Junction) - Nobsat Oukeim                57.5 km
Nobat Oukeim - Yme  Arab Republic                     43.2 km
Sabir - Al Waht                                        3.5 km
Lahej Town Road                                        1.8 km
Nobat Oukeim - Habilain                               34.7 km
Aden (Abyan Junction) - Al Kod                        43.7 km
Aden Urban Roads                                     210.0 km
Sub-total (A)        394.4 km
S.  Shugra Road    _Aintmeae DIsti
Al Kod - Zinjibar                                     10.9 km
Zinjibar - Shuqra                                     46.4 km
Shuqra - Am Ayn                                       60.7 km
AM Ayn - Km 250                                       88.3 Km
Km 2SO   Naqabah                                      85.0 km
Naqabah - Km 450                                     11S.o km
Zinjibar - Al Husn - Bata1s                           32.4 km
Shuqra - Ahwar                                       11S.9 km
Am Ayn - Lawdr                                        11.2 km
Naqabah - Nisab                                       72.0 km
Misab - Wasit                                         3S.0 km
As Said Branch                                        20.0 km
Sub-total (B)
692.8 km
C.  Mukalla Rand Maintenance Distriet
Km 4SO -  ukalla                                     188.5 km
Mukalla - RIyan Airport                               28.S km
Riyan Airport - Ash Shihr                             29.5 km
Ash Shihr - Sayhut                                   204.0 km
Nishtun - Tabut                                       20.0 km
Riyau - Al Qatn                                      270.0 km
Al Qatn - Sayun                                       43.5 km
Sayun - Tarim (as of 1967)                            33.0 km
Shuhair - Ghail Dawuir                                 8.0 km
Mukalla Urban Roads                                   22.0 km
Sub-total (C)           847.0 km
TOTAL                 1.934.2 km



PEMPLE'S DEHOCRATIt IPIELIC QF YU"
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Proaram, 1987-1991
1987      .            1988                   1989                  1990,                  199t             Total Cost
Lenoth  Cost           Length  C06            Lenot                 Lenth  Cost            Lenoth  Cost      1987-89  1987-91
(km)   (YOD)           (km)   (YDm)           (km)   (YOm)          (km)   (YOM)           (km)   (YOm)      (YOm)    (YOM)
I. Routine Maintenance
Labor"                           0.250                  0.407                  0.489                   0.503                 0.503      1.146    2.149
Equipment(excl. depre.)          0.124                  0.189                  0.270                   0.281                 0.281      0.583    1.145
Materials                        0.033                   0.050                 0070                    0.073                 0.073      0.153    0.299        1
Sub-tot. I         1934      0.407         1934     0.646        2060      0.829        2141      0.857       2141       0.857      1.882    3.596
II.  Periodic Maintenance
(i)  Asphalt overlays
Al Kod-Zinjibar           10.9   0.1652k                                                                                                0.911    0.911
Riyan-Ash Shihr          29.5   0.4802'                                                                                                 1.088    1.088
Shuqra-Am Ayn                                    60.7   0.911                                                                           0.165    0.165
Riyan-km 67                                                            67.0   1.088                                                     0.480    0.480
km 67-Al Qatn                                                                                203.0    3.299                             -         3.299
Al Qatn-Sayun                                                                                                       43.5    0.761       -        0.761
Aden Urban Roads                                 25.0   0.553           -      -               6.0    0.143          6.0i   0.l43       0.553    0.839
Sub-total 11(i)      40.4   0.645            85.7   1.464          67.0   1.088          209.0    3.442         49.5    0.904       3.197    7.543
(ii) Resal
Am Ayn-Km 206                                                          44.3   0.333
Km 206-Km 250                                                          44.0   0.330                                                     0.663    0.663
Km 250 - Naqabah                                                        85.0   0.638                                                    0.638    0.638
Naqabah-Km 450                                                                                                     115.0    0.862       -        0.862
Mukalla-Km 450             -_-                            -                                       _     _                     1.43      -         1.437
Sub-total II(i)       -      -                -     -             173.3   1.301            -      -            303.5    2.299       1.301    3.600
D >
Sub-total II         40.4   0.645            85.7   1.464         240.3   2.389          209.0    3.442        353.0    3.203      4.498   11.143        > z
Total                 -      1.032            -     2.110           -      3.218           -      4.299          -       4.060      6.380   14.739
Vt
1/  Including the cost of staff training.
2/ To be carried out by HA.
Note: All costs are without contingencies in prices of 1986.



- 45 -
Annex II
Attachment 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Periodic Maintenance Requirements, 1988-89
A. ASPHALT OVERLAYS
Total
Length       Width         Cost 1/
(km)         (m)        (1000 YD)
1. Interurban Roads
Shuqra - Am Ayn               60.7        6.0               911
Riyan - km 67                 67.0        6.5             1,088
Sub-Total (A.1)    127.7                         1,999
2.  Aden - Urban Roads
Salt Rd.                       7.2        8.0               144
Connaught Rd.                  2.2        6.8                37
Wali Rd.                       2.2        7.5                41
Mansura Rd.                    2.4       14.6                88
Dar Sa'ad Rd.                  2.9        7.5                54
Khormaksar Rd.                 1.2        7.0, 7.5           21
Harbor truck Rd.               1.9        7.0                34
Wharf Rd.                      0.7       10.1                18
Ma'alla Rd.                    2.8        8.9, 13.6          87
Crater Rds.                    1.5        7.0, 9.0           29
Sub-total (A.2)       25.0                         553
Sub-total (A)       152.7                        2,552
B. RESEALS
Interurban Roads
Am Ayn - Km 206                   44.3        6.0               333
Km 206 - km 250                    44.0        6.0              330
km 250 - Naqabah                  85.0        6.0               638
Sub-total (B)       173.3                        1,301
TOTAL            326.0                        3,853
1/ Excludine local taxes.



- 46 -
Annex II
Attachment 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Overlay Sections
First
Economic  Year       Net Present Value per Km
Return    Benefit   qIj^       @20%       @40X
S         %          -    YD million
1. Intertwban Roads
Shuqra - Am Ayn        36        25       22.6      10.4        1.1
Riyan - Km 67          17         12       3.8      -1.4       -6.2
2. Aden-Urban Roado
salt Rd.              142       122      106.1      66.8       25.3
Connaught Rd.          94        83       35.8      23.3        8.7
Wall Rd.               55        50       42.2       24.2       5.2
Nansura Rd.           106       101       97.8      61.6       22.2
Dar Sa'ad Rd.          81        75       72.4      44.1       14.3
Khoruakar Rd.         115        85       62.4      40.4       16.3
Harbor truck Rd.       83        73       32.7      20.8        7.2
Wharf Rd.             113        98      106.4      69.1       26.8
Pfaalla Rd.            59         56      37.9      21.9        5.3
Crater Rds.            93        80       49.5      31.8       11.7



- 47 -
Attachment S
PEPE'  ENOWRATZIC  *PJLI& OF YMEN
STAIF APPRtAIAL REPORT
FIZft  MICIRMY POEJT
Pavmnt Dtrba 
W~ith and Wdithout IrvdRa   qneM
Itetr-urban Reade J/
on"d                 rOfr  Bad
Y.AL  IrALLIL..ADoil Bda W7                  ALtB     Wo W EB Adt
var       Traffc. ADT         wa                    EQ WL     1 m          wa                    T 
1988       Over 1000         3S3.9  353.9           10.9   10.9           43.5   43.5            408.3
S00-1000          43.2   43.2              -      -           245.2  245.2           288.4
Under 500        2M.J  2lLS              UMA   ZL             GOA   M6 B2n
601.1  601.1           40.7   40.7          9S7.7  957.7           1599.5
1989       Over 1000         397.1  397.1           10.9   10.9           43.5   43.5            451.S
500-1000             -   173.3             -    60.7          24S.2   11.2           24S.2
Under 500         _kL4   liAJ            ZL.B   3L8           M9I  l6ei              102.
601.1  774.4           40.7  101.4          957.7  723.7           IS99.S
1990       Over 1000         384.3  384.3           23.7   23.7           43.5   43.S            4S1.S
500-1000             -   173.3             -    60.7          317.2   83.2           317.2
Under  00 SoLA   23M                     Li    LiLA 21J              UI5 Q 51.A
658.3  761.6           45.S  106.2          965.7  731.7          1S99.5
91         Over 1000         384.3  384.3           23.7   23.7           43.5   43.5            451.S
500-1000             -   173.3             -    60.7          505.7  271.7           SOS.7
Under SOO        IRA4  OLA                L l.    R           0164  LIU              GALA
58S.3  761.6           45.5  106.2          965.7  731.7          1S99.5
AdloLim I/
6me                  fair                    ad
as: LJdrllazi                        O      A   40- 9A Ls
ima       Traffit. ADt        WIU       w           ida       Y           bd;       Y            IQL
1988       Over 10000          -        -            2.6    2.6           16.8   16.8             19.4
5000-10000          -      2.4           20.S   20.S           19.2   16.8            39.7
Under 5000        _.i              7      L     - tl           _u; _5AA2.
-  2.4           30.2   30.2           41.0   38.6            71.2
1989       Over 10000          -      6.4            2.6    2.6           19.2   12.8             21.8
SOOO-10000          -       .            21.7  24.5            16.8    6.3            38.S
Under SGOO-                 -            _5.2   _5^            _  Q.L    5-0A         i
1 4.7            30.2   33.0           41.0   24.1             71.2
1 O        Ovtr I 0            -      S.7            S.O    S.7           19.2   12.8             24.2
SOOO-loOOO                 1.9           19.3   a8.7           16.4   S.S             36.1
Under SOO                  Li .J5.    _u^                     -_S t    21m
-  9.S           30.2   48.3           41.0   21.4            71.2
MI9        over 10000          -      4.4            S.O    7.0           19.2   12.8             24.2
SOOO-l@0OO                 2.2           19.3   28.7           16.4    S.2             1.1
Under SOO                  11             4.9   _5 1M _                L LQ
-  8.5           29.2   41.6           42.0   21.1            71.2
1/ Based an an  m^lysis of the ISMS. km of 1rt r-urb& ro Js th2t 4m1sted in e rty 1§|.
Vt Based on an onlyss of 71 km of mai roafst in Ade.
Note: The ewtthO case oerW sots improved rosd zsintobnfeo 1ncludi1 ressals, Ah11e the Owithouto case
represents pres nt road maitotenJes lovl.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1I
Attachment 6
PEQPLE'S DEMOCRATIC RgPIJILIC OF YEMEN
STAff APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operation Costs
Li&h and Without Imroved Road 4aintenance
Inter-Urban Roads 1/
Q194_           Fa ir           Bad
Y=1                        0I to 39       9I 40-49       Qx avgr So       TcQa
- - - - - - - -YO    million   ------- - - - - -
1988      Without            37.172         1.323           26.804        6S 299
With               27.122         1.317           2S.926       64,365
Savings                                                         0.934
1989      Without            40.535         1.433           29 153        71.121
With               47 694         3.676           18.16S       69 s3s
Savings                                                         1 586
1990      Without            42.534         2 95a           31.78S        1t2J77
With               50 568         S.384           19.780       75,731
Savings                                                         1 546
1991      Without            46.193         3.21S           34.600       84.008
Wi1th              54.876         S.839          21.455        92,170
Savings                                                         1.838
AdnRoads V
Gggid         Fair            Bad
YMa                        Or to 39       ax 4Q={2       gl ovr So        loaw
----------------YO million ------------------
188      WithOut             0             7.113           18.390       2S 503
With              1.102          7.481            16 537       2S5 120
Savings                                                         0.383
1989      Without             0             7.318           18.757       26.075
With              5.752          8.3S1           11.187        2S.290
Savings                                                         0.78S
ggo9      Without             °            7.S30           M9  27        27.056
With              3.727          11.4S1          10. 27AX.091
Savings                                                         1.4SS
1991      Without             °             7.719           20 50%       28.220
With              3 336         12. f34          11.216        L2a59B
Savings                                                         1.23S
I/  Based an an analysis of the 15993 kmb of inter-urban roads that existed
in early 198S.
2/ Based an an analysis of 71 km of main roads in Aden.
Note: the *with* case represents improved road maintenance 1n"1uding
reseals, while the "without" case represents the present road
maintenance level.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 7
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Onerating Cost Estimates
(YU a. IOO kml
1. Under Ideal Conditions 010 = 30)
4-wheel                10-ton      15-ton     25-ton      15 pass.
Pass, Car  Dr1ve       Pick-up    Truck       Truck      Truck       Bus
Variable Costs         16.61    34.86        33.27      75.68      99.19        112.57      42.93
Fixed Costs            27.77    93.03        64.i9     118.24     129.53        138.32      76iL2
Total            44.38   127.89         98.18    193.92      228.72       250.89      119.75
USz p.km               12.9     37.1         28.5       56.2       66.3          72.8       34.7
2.  As Function of Road Roughness (RI,)
Variable CostsFxed Cost
Pass. car                 e(2.68+0.00429 R)                          27.77
4-wheel drive             e(3.42+0.00429 Q)                         e(4,46+0.00229 R)
Pick-up                   e(3.36+0.00491 R)                         e(4.10+0.00229 R)
10-ton truck              e(4.1s+0.00S90 R)                         e(4.72+0.00190 R)
15-ton truck              e(4.45+0.00497S R)                        e(4.81+0.00177 R)
25-ton truck              e(4.63+0.00312 R)                         eC4.fl+0.00152 R)
IS-pass. bus              e(3.69+0.00262 R)                        e(4.31+0.00093 R)
Expressed In QI



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Authority Maintenance Department
Proposed Organlzation
DUXECT OF 
PA.N00*&                           ADEN                          SHUIRA                          tALLA                          AL GCf IDA
ESMAAMNG                           DISfR CT                        DIS1_CT                             C _rRCT
_ Plo r                           Patchin Crew                  -Datlct Vokshop                 - D,nct Wokshp                   To be pbnned
-Estrnoting                       (Aen)                           (S91a)                         (jo/in Rsoflmm)                 latet
-Costing                          Roodside & Gradn Crew           Embankment & Gradn Crew       -Patchtng Crew
Taffc Sign                     (Aden)                           (tvuQa)                        (Mukolka) 
WVmochop                      -Structues Crew                 -Potching Crew                  - Shuctues Crew
(Aden)                         (Shuq9o)                        (MLiclo)
- Road MaNkmrkg Crew           -Sructurs Crew                  -Embankmnt & Groding Crew
(Aden)                         (ShuqVr)                        (Bk/Ah/Mukolla)
Embrnmebon & Goadin Crew        Emrbanment & Groding Crew      Patchng Crew
(Nobot Diicewn)                ( ibftdj                        (smlg.)
Potchg Crew                     Patching Crew                -Embankment & GadiWg Crew
(Nobat ODkem)                   (fJth)                         (bum)
Sub CaOp                        Depot Wokhop                 -Depot Waorkhop
(Nobo D )  (m)                                                 (no1)
Embankment & Gxdn Crew
-Patching Crew
rt3
CT 1
World Bonk-30784!30  -



-*51 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 9
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pro psed Road Maintenance Establishment
Required Required No.
No. of    of Equipment
Organizational Unit              Task Su  arv               Staff       Units
1.  Maintenance        Coordination of:
Department E.Q.      (i) program  and budgets;         24             4
(ii) cost acc. and cost
control procedures; and
(iWi) procurement and recruit-
ment;
and provision of traffic sigs       -             _
Sub-total                24             4
2. Aden District
2.1 District H.Q.      - Plan & monitor implementation    25             13
of maintenance program for
394.4 km of road
- Manage district equipment pool
2.2 Crews based at
Aden
Patching           Cover 253.7 km                      14             6
Roadside and
grading            Cover 253.7 km                      17             5
Structures         Cover about 150 structures          17             5
and urban street drainage
Road MHarking      Cover 394.4 km                       5             2
2.3 Crews based at
Nobat Dukeim
Subcam D
Patching           Cover 140.7 km                     1 I           6
Embankment and
grading            Cover 140.7 km                      11             6
Sub-total               112            43
1/ Includes guard of Nobat-Dukeim subcamp.



ANNEX II
- 52 -                          Attachment 9
Page 2 of 3
Required   Required No.
No. of    of Equipment
Organizational Unit              Task Summary                Staff        Units
3. Shugra District
3.1 District H.Q.      - Plan and monitor implement-         24            10
ation of maintenance program
for 692.8 km of road
- Manage district equipment poo..
3.2 Crews based at
Shugra
Patching           Cover 277.5 km                        15             6
and road marking of 692.8 km
Embankment and
grading            Cover about 424.8 km                  15             5
Structures         Cover about                           15             4
1200 structures
3.3 Crews based at
Mahfidh Subcamp
Patching           Cover 415.3 km                        18             7
Embankment and
grading            Cover about 268 km                    15             5
Sub-total                 102            37
4. Mukalla District
4.1 District H.Q.      -Plan and monitor                     25            12
implementation of maintenance
program for 847.0 kmir-' road
Manage district equipment pool
4.2 Crews based at
Mukalla
Patching          Cover 276.5 km of road                 17             7
and road marking of 827.0 km
Embankment and
grading           Cover 254.5 km of road                 18             7
including sand dunes in
Bir Ali area
Structures        Cover about 900 structures            15              4
4.3 Crews based at
Haura subcamp
Patching          Cover 346.5 km of road                15              6
Embankment
and grading       Cover 346.5 km of road                15              5
l1  Includes Nishtun-Tabut road (20 km) whose maintenance will be directed
from Mukalla.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 9
Page 3 of 3
Required   Required No.
No. of    of Equipment
Organizational Unit                 Task Summary             Staff        Units
4.4 Crews based at
Sayhut Subcamp
Patching             Cover 204 km of road                13-            6
Embankment and
grading              Cover 204 km of road                17             6
Sub-total               135            53
TOTAL                   373           137
1/ Includes Guard of Sayhut subcamp.



- 54 -
ichment 10
PEPES OECKRATIC Ree'JIZ OFLY.EME
STAFF APPASAL REPOIIT
FIFTH MI Y  PROJEIT
Entimted Road Maintenance Eoj1nt Reouiremnts and CostS
2/                         Highway V
Replacme nt                            Purchases
Highway IV   Requirement                     Unit      Total
DescritiUn             Reguiremnt       Available     Purchases        lZ7-99       Deincy          Cu      _stl
(YO)      (YD)
Passenger Car                   4              0              -                           4           3.500      14,000
Pick-Up (Quarter-Ton)          26              2             10            2             16           1,800      28.800
Service Truck                   3              1 (1)          I                           I          15,000      15.000
Compressor (161 c.f.m.)         4              2 (1)          1                           1           3.000       3,000
Tipper 6 ton                   13              0                                         13           6.500      84.500''
Oropside Truck 6 ton           15              0              6                           9           6,000      54,000"
Front-End Loader
1 Cubic Meter                  3              0                                          3          10,000     30.000
Bitumen Heater 200 Liter        7              0                                          7           1.000       7,000
Asphalt Spot Mixer (300 kg)    7               0                                          7           9.000      63,000
Concrete Mixer 150 Liter        3              0                                          3             950       2.850
Poker Vibrator                  3              3(3)                                       0               -           -
Grader 12 ton                   7              0                                          7          29,000    203,0001"
Wheel Tractor. Heavy Duty       2              1                            1             2          32,500      65.000''
Water Bowser 6000 Liter         7              0                                          7          11,000      77.000, 1
Fuel Tanker 4000 Liter          3              1 (1)                                      2          10,000     20,000"/
Vibrating Roller.
Dual 4-S Ton                   7              0                                          7           7'000     49.0001"
Vibrating Roller,
Pedestrian Op.                 7              2 (2)                       2              7           2.200      15,400
Low-Loader 40 Ton Cap.          2              1 (1)                                      1          60,000     60,000
Rescue Vehicle, Sus. low
8 Ton                          2              0                                          2          22,000     44.000
Under Bridge Inspection
Vehicle                        I              0              1                           0          28,000
Mechanical Rammer               7              0              7                           0             700
Sludge Pump 4-inch              3              0             3                            0             800
Road Marker, Pedestrian Op.    3               0              3                           0           2,400
Generator 250 KVA               4              2 (1)                       2              4          11,000     44.000
Generator 10 KVA                6              0             6                            0           1,500
Equipment for making
Traffic Signs                  L.S         -                                                          L.S.     20L000
Subtotal                    149             1is5lo        21           .2             jlQa                    9.5
Spare parts for existing
and new equipment                                                                                             134 sOD
TOTAL                                                                                                      1.034,350
1/ Items to be procured through IC8.
U See Attachment 11.
Notes: Numbers in brackets represent equipwnt to be made available from
Shuqra Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit
74890



PEOPE'£WICRTIC IPOLIC OF MO
STAFF A 1ISK M PORT
FIFIH u11_1 PRCT
YOWl, FANS_  Rea0mst RenuvMmtS   to 19t        6
at silat  P      s    Sewice       199g         190            11            1992          1993          1994            199S              136
Duscrciti              tUnts       Cost        Year      Life      .    Cost  4s.    Cost  lb.    Cost  Pk.    Cot  1.    Cost   o             cost    lb.      Cost    lb.       Cost
(VD)                 (Vows)          (10)          (VD)           (VD)         btD)           (10)          (VD)             (1)               (1D)
PassengeCar               4         14,00D      (4)88      5                                                               4  14,000
PiCk-w pturte Ten)       26         46,900      (2) 84     S       2   3,60                                                               2   3,60
(10) 8t                                                      10 1O 8,000
(14) 83     s                                                              14  25,200
S1wlce Trod               3        45.000       (1) 84     I                                   1  15.000
(1) 8      7                                                                             1  15,000
(1) Be     7                                                                                             I  15,000
Ceqwassr (160 c.f.)    4            12.000      (2) 83     9                                                 2   6.000                                                      1   3.000
(1) 8      9
(1)8811    9
Tlw   6 te               13         84,5s0     (13) so     5                                                               13  84e.=
Grosid Trod 6 Too        15         90,000      (6) 8t     5                                                 6  36.000
(9) 88     5                                                               9  S4,.0D
1 Cuic  eter             3        30,000       (3) 88     7                                                                                             3  30.000
situ bater 2W0
Liter                    7          7,000      (7) 8S    10
Aspalt Spot IHxer         7         63,000      (7) 88     5                                                                7  63,000
Caot I"xar 150
Liter                    3          2,810      (3) S8     5                                                                3   2.SSO
PoeVr vibrator            3         3,000       (3) 83     9                                                 3   3,000
Grader 12 toe             7        203,000      (7) 8S     7                                                                                              7 189.000
bea  Tractr, HeWy Duty  2          65,000       (1) 82     7       1  32,5100
(1) Se     7                                                                                             1  32,SOO
Bateor B     Q 60                                                                                                 .                                          77,O0
Litor                    7         77,ew       (7) aS     7
Feel T_k  400W
Liter                    3         30,000      (1) 83     7                     1  10,000
(2) 88     7                                                                                             2  20,000
Dua 4-S too              7         49.000      (7) se     S                                                                7  49,000
Vibrating Roller.
Pedestrian  .            7         15.400      (2) 84     5       2   4,400
(S) 8e     5                                                               5  11,000
Low-Loader 40 Too Cap.    2        120.000      (1) 83     7                     I  60,000
(1) 88     7                                                                                             1  60.000
Resu Vdscl, S9n.
Tom, 8tmn                2         44,00      (2) 88     5                                                               2  44,000
Under Gridp laspction
baicle                   1         28,000      (1) 87     7                                                                              1  28.0S0
Hohoical It_              7         4,00       (7) S7     6                                                                7   4.90D
Sl1de Po  4-lack          3          2,400      (3) a7     6                                                               3   2.400
Road rtcr. Pedestrtl
00.                      3          7,2W       131 87     6                                                               3   7,20D
_watar 2SIKVA             4        44.000        2 81      8       2  22,000
(2) 8S     8                                                                                                               2  22,000
enrat  10 VA              6         9j0O        (6) 87     5                                                 6   9.000
Totals     149      1.097,050                         7  62,SW0     2  70,000     1  tS,000   27  72,000   77 362,0s0    4  46,60          22 4-23,500        3  25.000
Nots Figures to bracets reprent n_ers of units in pu     year.



- 56-                                          ANNEX It
Attachment 12
PEOPLE'S BE OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Eguipment Maintenance
Required    Additional Equipment
No. of       and Installations
Organizational Unit                 Task Summarv                 Staff            Needed
A. Mechanical Degartment
Central Workshop          Service and maintain 47 units    fully            New buildings (See
in Aden                   of Aden district; repair and        staffed      Chart 2); additional
overhaul road maintenance                        equipment and tools
fleet of 137 units                               (See Attachment 16)
B. Road Maintenanee
R*aartment
1. Shuqra district
(i) Shuqra workshop    Service 25 units stationed               19        Ramp drainage system;
at Shuqra and maintain all                       1 pick-up; 1 service
37 units of the district                         truck; generator 250 KVA
(0i) Mahfidh depot        Service 12 units stationed              9        New depot work shop;
workshop             in subdistrict                                   tools, service and
testing equipment,
air compressor;
I pick-up; 1 generator
250 KVA
2. Mukalla Oistrict
(1) Riyan workshop       Service 41 units stationed            20         Workshop rehabilitation;
at Mukalla and Sayhut and                        tools, maintenance and
maintain all 52 units in the                     testing equipment, air
district                                         compressor, forklift
truck; 1 pick up;
1 service truck;
1 generator 250 KVA
(1i) Haura subcamp        Service 11 units                       9         New depot workshop;
in subdistrict                                   tools, service and
testing equipment; air
compressor, 1 pick-up,
generator, 250 KVA



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIG HWAY PROJECT
Estimated Workshop Eauimuent and Tool Reouirements and Costs 1/
Mahfidh                     Haura
Description                        Central       Shuora      Depot          Riyan         Depot
Workshop     Workshop    Workshop       Workshop      Workshop    Total      lQtll
-- -__----------- -                   YD ----------------------------        USF
Oil and Grease Oispensing Equipment        (2)  3,000                  (1) 1,500   (2)  3,000    (1) 1,500    9,000    26,100
Air Compressor 100 cfm                     (2)  3,000                  (1) 1,500                  (1) 1,500    6,000    17,400
Air Compressor 200 cfm                                                              (1)  2,500                  2,500      7,250
Floor-Mounted Tools for Tyre Changing    (1)  5,000                                (1)  3,000                   8.000    23,200
Hand or Air Tools for Tyre Changing                                    (1) 1,000                  (1) 1,000    2.000       5,800
Welding Equipment                                                                   (1)  4,000                  4,000    11.600
Machine Tools                                                          (1) 2,000   (2)  5,000    (1) 2.000    9,000    26,100
Washing Equipment for Vehicles                                                      (1)  1.000                  1,000      2.900
Starter and Generator Test Bench           (1)  4.500                                                           4,s00    13,050
Hand-Held Electrical Test Equip.           (1)    500                  (1)   500   (1)    500    ll)   500    2,000        5.800         I
Battery Charging Equipment                                             (1) 1,000                  (1) 1,000    2,000       5,800
Hydraulic Hose Repair Equipment            (1)  1,600                               (1)  1,600                  3,200      9.280
Hydraulic Test Gear                        (1)  1.00t                               (1)  1,000                  2,000      5.800
Injector Nozzle Test Equipment                                         (1)   200   (1)    200    (1)   200        600      1,740
Four-Post Hydraulic Vehicle Lift
10-Tons Capacity                         (2) 10,000                                                          10,000    29,000
Hand Tools for Mechanics (Kits)                                        (1)   300   (3)    900    (1)   300    1,500        4,350
Fork-Lift Truck V                                                                  (1)  7,500                   7,500    21,750
Rup Drainage System                                      (1) 1,500                                              1,500      4,350
Stores Shelving                                                        (1) 2,900                                2.900      8,410
Workshop Fittings                                              _       (1) 1.500   (1)  1.500    (1) 1 SOO    4.500    13.0S0
Total                                24.kQQ        f.500       12,400        31.700         9 500   83.700   242.730
1/  To be purchased under the Fourth Highway Project (CR. 1617-YOR)
U  To be procured together with Road Maintenance Equipment.
Note:  Figures in bracket indicate number of units or items.                                                                          >
ot2j
x z



PIEOPLE*         I llRTC REPUBLUWO 
STAFF AIAISAL RKPOR
FIFT           PJECT
k       _a N          ructin Cost_             1/
Najdalla     Aden     lbat-      Sl"ura
Rate      Central   District  Okce1    District   Whftdh    Rtyan          Sir Ali  Sayhut   laura
lLm                   oumlatfLx     m.       Wrkshop      A-i- 2/   SlbEr      N.D.    SUh&M trkshoa   _onL   Deo                Sub&m..    Total
1. Facilties
Office                    10 2           60                   8.000 (so .2)                   1.600                1.600    1,600                 12.800
Tool Store                10.2          110                                                   1,100                1.100    1.100                  3.300
Oil Store                 16$           110                                                   1.100                1.100    1.160                  3,300
Elevated fuel Tanks       L.S.                                                                4.500                4.500    4.500                 13.500
Chain-Link Fencgn
For Fuel Oru CowW    40 a                30                   1.200                           1,200                1.200    1.200                  4,800
Open-Sided 3-6ev Gars   5so             1 0O                                                  S.000                S.000    S.000                 1S.000
Grease R                  20             so                                                   1.60                 1,600  1,600                    4.600
Toilets                   5 a           160                                                     600                  800      800                  2,400
WtCIM's Slut              5.2           160                     *00                             o00                  800      600                  3,200
Depot  orksho             40            150                                                   6,000                                    6.000      12,000
Rehabilitation            L.S.                    SO           -           -2-2-                                  _      _               -9.00O
Sub-total                                    S0.000    lO,10.                           231.00     29,000    17.700   17.700      6.000    154.100
2. .
Foreman's Nouse           50so          160                                                   8.000                8.000    8.000      6.000 3/  30.000
Acco. for 17 *on          240           IS 150                          51.000                                             51.000                102.000
AccOm. for 22 Sun         440  I' lSO                                                                             66.000                          66,000
Accm. for 50 sn           540 a         100                                                                                            54.000     54.000
Acco. for 34 _n          600.          150                                                 102.000                                              102.000
Acorm. For S0  n          1000.2        100         -- _slaM                                   -          -       _           _                  iaoo
Sub-total                   -           -     51.000   100.000   110.000          -    74.000   59.000      60,000    454.000
TOTAL                  50,000     10,000      S1l,O0    100,000   133.700    29.000    91.700   76.700      66.000    608.100
5S====  S=St=  SS===    SS==SS =u====1     ==~====     =-= ====           -==       ===_
1/  All building woks are to be carried out as part of the Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1617-YTR)
V/ To be located on Oar Sa'ad compound.
I/  Spae requ1rmont per man or rate per ml reduced in view of existing services.
b 3
3.-a



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Central Workshop at DAR SA'AD
300m
*- 1Xt- - --- '- # #y  It                       FX          3                   s     x
Fenoce
~L        I J                     L      WWashing
Shop                               Canen andf
union Meeting
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U,
ToNeft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It~~~~~~~~~~~
_ Lutb. Bys&                                _Sk& -_                                                                           e
vStes                               Vehicles                               _ Gooes        wquy                            Welding
wiShop                                                                               Fabrio
Stors       l d                           Raw Mo etlStore
|OL1   21  3 r  r&Spo PolAr r s   yr   Storesoice L                                      K    ]Ph
Shop
Tyre
39                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Repcfr 
Shop;                                                               Raw Material
Area for Ready Vehice                    TeStrsArea for IncominIg                                 Shed N,
~~F1~~~OflsPortP~~~~~~~Area                                                                     I Tyr Stre
Transport Pool Arf                             ~~~~~~~~~Vehicles & Plants                                              lbtui
_____________                                                        __     _     __     _    _                
K# VX               #lt                    K X                     -.X--                                       -KW    Ban#  -    I:2 _
World Bcnk-30781:2       



- 60 -
ANNEX I 
Attachment 16
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REULIC OF YEMENI
STAEF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Additional Eouigahnt and TooTi
For New CentrAl Workshee
Total
Cost
A.    Highways IV Purchases                                YO
Oil and Grease Dispensing Equipment         (2)    3.000
Air Compressor 100 cfm                       (2)    3,000
Floor-Mounted Tools for Tire Changing       (1)    s,000
Starter and Generator Test Bench            (1)    4,500
Hand-Held Electrical Test Equipment         (1)       SOO
Hydraulic Hose Repair Equipment             (1)    1,600
Hydraulic Test Gear                         (1)    1,000
Four Post Hydraulic Vehicle Lift
10-ton capacity                           (2)   10,000
Sub-total (A)                                28.600
S. Proposed Highways V Purchases
(1)   Lubrication Equipment                              11 400
Chassis Lubricator                          (1)       350
Lub Drum Set                                (2)    3,100
Oil Bucket Pump                             (2)       350
Two Post Lift                               (1)    4,400
Single Post Lift                            (1)    2.500
Other Small Items                                     700
(ii)  Tire Repair Equipment                               2 OOo
Air Compressor                              (1)       900
Other Small Items                                   1,100
(iii) Engine Repair Equipment                            3LSOO
Piston Heater                               (1)       300
Parts Washing Stand                         (1)       350
Parts Washing Stand                         (1)       450
Mechanic Set                                (4)       400
Other Small Items                                   2,000
(iv)  General Repair Equipment                           8AA00
Wheel Oolly                                 (1)       350
Hydraulic Press                             (1)    1,7SO
Deft Jack                                   (1)       400
Rigid Racks                                 (5)       300
Rigid Racks                                 (S)       700
OTC Hydraulic Tester                        (1)    1,SOo
Parts Washing Stand                         (1)       450
Work Benches                                (S)    1,000
Other Small Items                                  2,250
(v)   Inspection Equipment                               1A800
Side Slip Tester                            (1)    1,400
Other Small Items                                     400
Sub-total (B)                                27,400
Total                                  56,000



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 17
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Management Equipment Needed 1/
Description                                 Total cost 2/
YD
A.   4 personal computers including
software and setting up costs and
initial training.                                       33,000
B.   Communications equipment consisting of:
2 Base sets
5 Satellite sets
1 Satellite set
3 Car mounted sets                                14,000
C.   Maintenance planning equipment
consisting of:
8 traffic counters
1 bump integrator                                 15,000
2 weigh bridges
TOTAL                      62,000
1/ To be purchased under the Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1617-YDR)
2/ Sea or airfreight included.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 18
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Materials and Tools for Manufacture and
Installation of Traffic Sns and for Road Marking
Estimated
Item                     Unit        Quantity        Cost
(YD)
Aluminum Plates             sq.m.         1,100         38,000
Cutting Machine             each              1          1,500
Sign Painting Equipment     each              1            500
Galvnised Steel pipes       1.5.         13,000        119,000
Paint for Sigps             gl8.           1000          5,000
Paint for Line-mrking       gls.         22,000         33,000
Cement                      tons             75          5,000
Miscellaneous, hardware,
clips and small tools      L.S.           L.S.          8.000
210,000



-63-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Training Program
1.       The objective of the three-year (1987-1989) training program is to
strengthen the institutional capability of MOCH/HA to prepare, implement,
and supervise training programs to improve the skills and knowledge of HA
maintenance personnel at all levels. The program is designed for the train-
ing of some 400 maintenance engineers, road supervisors, foremen and
oversei"s, equipment operators, tipper drivers, mechanics, storekeepers,
and ac4buntants engaged in maintenance activities (Attachments I and 2).
The trdining program includes: (a) the setting up of a Training Steering
Comaitkoe; (b) the strengthening and expansion of POCH/HA existing training
orgahi\ation; (c) the setting up of a mobile Road Training Production Unit
(RPTU), tdr the training of road supervisors, equipment operators, and
drivers* (d) the setting up of mobile Mechanical Training Production Unit
(MTPUI) f6r the training of mechanical personnel; (e) the purchasing of
training equipment and materials; (f) the training of HA counterparts and
instructors; (g) the organization of periodic workshops on training and
maintenance management and related topics; (h) the limited rehabilitation
of the VTC and HA training center; and (i) fellowships training abroad for
selected MOCH/HA staff.
2.       Training of road supervisors, equipment operators, and tipper
4rivers would be carried out mostly in the field by adopting a system of
training through production. An RTPU, staffed with instructors/technicians
ootild be established to conduct training in the various districts in ordei-
of priority while, at the same time, carrying out maintenance/rehabilitation
operations on selected road sections within HA's annual maintenance program.
The RTP? would use road maintenance equipment assigned to the specific
districs. The trainees assigned to the RTPU would be trained to a large
extent under actual working conditions. The road training equipment
reugirtments are estimated to be:
1 Grader
1 Front - End Loader
1 Small Roller
1 Asphalt Distributor
1 Asphalt Heater
1 Water Truck
3 Dump Trucks
1 Dozer
3.       Training of mechanics would be conducted mostly by a mobile MTPU
at Majdalla, Shuqra, and Mukalla's workshops. In addition to general



- 64 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
theoretical courses, the training of mechanical staff would concentrate on
the repairs of road maintenance equipment under the supervision of experi-
ence mechanical instructors, thus enhancing HA's equipment maintenance
capabilities and raising the level of equipment availability. HA would be
required to provide adequate spare parts for the training of mechanics
estimated at YD 25,900 over the duration of the program (Attachment 3).
4.       The existing HA training building in Ataq will be "moved" to Aden
and is expected to be used inter alia for the theoretical training of road/
equipment maintenance personnel. The idea of using the VTC for training of
HA staff seems impractical because of (a) the nature of the center, and
(b) the fact that existing resources are not geared to the somewhat higher
level of experience of HA personnel. Nonetheless, limited physical and
technical improvements of the VTC would strengthen its effectiveness.
5.       Training equipment and materials would also be provided under the
project. All the training activities would be coordinated by a new Train-
ing Division (within MOCH's Department of Cadres) which would be assisted
on a full-time basis by an expatriate training adviser and six specialists/
instructors during the first two years of the program. The expatriate
specialists/instructors should be recruited from Arabic-speaking countries.
HA would assign counterparts to these staff, as well as technicians and
assistant instructors. They would work closely with the expatriate person-
nel and be expected to take over from the third year (1989) onward and
manage training activities directly.
6.       MOCH/HA technical assistance will provide a variety of short-term
training services as indicated in their terms of reference. Training of
cost-clerks (accountants) would be carried out under the guidance of the
accountant included in the technical assistance services to the Highway
Authority and with help of experts from the Central Organization for
Control and Auait (COCA).



- 65 -                               ANNEX III
Attachment 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF XEMEN
STAFf APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated HA Personnel to be rrained
Road Maintenance Personnel 1/
To be Trained              Not to be Trained
Present     Additional       Present      Additional
Qesignatign                NU.      Personnel    Personnel        Personnel    Personngl
Director                         1            I
Dist. Eng/Civ. Supervisor       4            4
Mech. Engineer                   2           2
Overseer                        4            4
Foreman                         10           9            1
Head Labourer                   11           10           I
operator                       46           42            4
Driver                          76          76
Mason                            3           3
Carpenter                        3           3
Painter                         5                                          5            -
Asphalt Labourer               40                                         40
Labourer                       87                                         81            6
Messenger                        4                                         4            _
Cleaner                          8                                         7            l
Guard                           30                                        27            3
Temp. Labourer                  34                                        30            4
Mechanic                         7           7
Welder                           4           4
Electrician                      2           2
Machinist                        2           2
Tyreman                         4            4
Greaser                         10           9            1
Storeman                        5            5
Clerical/Typist                 l5          15
Admin. Supt.                     1            1
Accountant                       2           2
Accounts Clerk                   2           2
Asst. Cost. Clerk                3           3
Cost Clerk                             s                  
l           ILu            7                            ]A
l/  This is only the Staff needed for routine maintenance by H.A.'s Maintenance
Department. In addition, the training program would cover the Bitumen works
(overlays and reseal) staff, presently totaling 53.
Source: MOCH/HA



- 66 -
ANNEX II I
Attaciment 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY 1'ROJECT
Mechanical Personnel 1/
Desianation                                              No.
Manager                                                    1
Clerk                                                     10
Typist                                                     3
Storekeeper                                               28
Driver                                                    12
Electrician                                               13
Elect. Supervisor                                          1
Elect. Foreman                                             2
Mech. Supervisor                                           2
Mechanics (gas)                                           12
Asst. Mechanic                                             4
Mechanic (Diesel)                                         20
Asst. Mech. (Diesel                                        4
Mechanics                                                 62
Heavy Plant Mechanic                                      25
Stores Supervisor                                          1
Heavy Plant Mechanic Supervisor                            1
Equip. Plan Engineer                                       1
Work-shop Superintendent                                   1
Asst. Work-shop Superintendent                             1
204
N.B.
All this staff is to be trained, with the exception of the 10 Clerks and the
3 Typists.
1/ This is the staff of the central workshop only;
Staff of regional workshops is included in Maintenance Personnel.
Source: MOCH/fA
(7429D)



- 6? -
Attacment 3
STAIf APftaAIIL REo?
fIf TH HIHUY  PEJC?
Litip tad Camital Cat at Tra&mnan Proar
it  t  ted Cast
QaMrJaUna                     ~~~~~~LWAI   E*LI
A.   Civil Works
(a)  Relocating Ataq Trining Suilding               1,000        4.000         5,0C0
to VTC in Aden
(b) Limited rehabilitation of VtC
facilities including:
(1)  More adequate Kitchen/Cafeteria        2,500         7.500        10,000
(ii) Small Hostel with sanitary
facilities for 25 HA trainees,
200 mg at YO 130 per *I                9.400        16.600       26,I00
(Mii)  Library, 602 at YO 130 per a'          3.600         6.600        10.400
(iv)  Seminar/Conference Ro"m 100m as        47.L          *.20 10     _LU
Total              21,400        43,000       64,64
S.    Training Equipment and Matorials  equ1iremets
(a)  Road Maintenance lmai  t J/
i Grader
i Front - End Loader
I Small Roller
1 Asphalt Distributor
I Asphalt Heater
I Water Truck
3 Dump Trucks
1 Oozer                                         -        (175,00)    (175,00)
(b) Workshop equipment (Majdalla, Shuqra
Mukalla)                                         -          1,000        31.000
11)   Mchanical Tools                           -           5.200        5,200
(ii)  Mobil Workshop (Truck)                    -          24,100       24,100
(k)  Spare Parts for Training of Mechanics I/         -        (2S.900)      (25,900)
(d)  Audio- Visual training Aids                      -          8,000        $.W00
(a)  Technical Sooks/Publications                     -          3.400        3,400
(f)  3 Trainees Buses (26 seats)                      -         21-Z         21-2
Total                       -         94.000      9".000
1J/ To be provided by the foad Maintenance Oistricts.
Z/  To be provided by Highway Authority.
(74290)



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Attachment 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Local Cost of Three-Year Training Program
Estimated Cost
1989
Description                               1988       & later
___---YD- -----
Incremental Annual Recurrent
Expenditure For Training Program
1.    Salaries of Yemeni Training Officers
and Instructors                                 25,000      25,000
2.    PER DIEM OF TRAINEES
- 400 Trainees x SYD 3 per Day
x 25 Training days per year                   30,000      30,000
3.    R.T.P.U. - Plant
(i)  Fuel and lubricants                      13,000     16,000
(ii)  Tires                                     1,400      2,000
(iii)  Miscellaneous                             1,300       1,600
(iv) Materials 1/
Bitumen
Cement
Aggregates                               30,000     30,000
Culverts
Miscellaneous
4.    MPTU
Miscellaneous
(fuel etc)                                       1,000      1,000
TOTAL                                     101,700    105,600
1/ Note: The type and and quantity of materials used will vary depending upon
the type of maintenance being executed at each RTPU Location;
allovance has been made for some overlay and reseal operations.
Source: Staff estimates



- 69 -                                          ANEX IV
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consolidated ImRlementation Action Plan for the Fourth and Fifth Hiahway Proiects
For the purposes of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause MOCH, with the
assistance of consultants as required, to implement the following by the dates specified, subject to such
modifications as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association:
Activiyt                                           Resonsibilty              Taragt Date
I. Project Organization and Management
(i)  Provide general direction for Project                Ministry of               Continuing
implementation, including (1) supervision            Construction and          throughout
and coordination of the Project;                     Housing (MOCH)            implement-
(2) coordination of the recruitment                  and its Highway           ation period
of consultants for the Project;                      Authority (HA)
(3) coordination and preparation of
documents for procurement; (4) preparation
of the separate accounts for the Project,
withdrawal applications and statements of
expenditure required to be furnished to the
Association; and (5) the preparation and
furnishing to the Assoriation of plans,
schedules, reports, records and other
information required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to Sections 9.05 and
9.06 of the General Conditions.
(ii)  Complete appointment of an advisor                   MOCH and HA               June 1987
to assist the project director in
managing the project.
1I. Road Maintenance and Training Programs
(i)  Complete selection and employ                        MOCH and HA               August 1987
consultants for road
maintenance and training
(0i)  Select candidates for (three) district                    MOCH                 August 1987
engineers, a cost accountant section
chief and a training section chief to
serve as counterparts to the consultants.
(iii)  prepare an implementation plan                       MOCH/HA/Consultants       May 1988
for the road maintenance program,
including: (1) detailed work targets
and operational plans for the
proposed three maintenance districts
and the Planning Section of
Maintenance Department; (2) the
division of responsibility for
equipment repairs between the HA
Mechanical Department's central
workshop and the workshops and



- 70 -                                           ANNEY IV
Page 2 of 3
Activity                                          &tSsgnsibility            larget Date
service centers in the districts:
(3) the division of responsibility
for cost accounting work between the
maintenance districts. the
Maintenance Department, the
Mechanical Department and the
proposed cost accounting sectionin
the NA Administration and Finance
Department; (4) assessments of needs
for staff, equipment, budgets and
other resources of all units
concerned with the road maintenance
program.
(iv) establish the cost accounting system              HA and Consultants          may 1988
and prepare implementation of the
proposed road maintenance program
through development of: (1) improved
procedures and guidelines for
planning and managing the road
maintenance program, incorporating
the same into an appropriate
maintenance manual; (2) incentive
pay schemes for maintenance
personnel; (3) safety procedures for
maintenance and trafic control
crews; (4) improved procedures and
guidelines for the effective
deployment of maintenance personnel
and resources; (S) an effective
system to monitor the condition of
the road network and plan future
maintenance work; (6) improved
procedures and guidelines relating
to accounting, inventory control.
inspection, renewal. operation and
maintenance of the road maintenance
equipment and vehicles.
(v) complete building works  at district             HA/Consultants/              June 1988               U.
centers and subcenters.                          Local contractors
(vi) Complete new HA central workshop at              HA/Consultants/              September 1988
Dar Saad.                                        Local contractor/
Foreign supplier
(vii) complete procurement of initial tranche           HA/Consultants/             April 1988
of maintenance and workshop equipment            Suppliers                    (maintenance) & August 1988
(workshop)
(viii) complete procurement of balance of                HA/Consultants/             June 1988
maintenance equipment                            Suppliers
(ix) establish training                               HOCH/HA                      October 1987
Steering Committee
(x) Di0cuss draft policy                             MOCH/IDA                     March 1988
Statement on training
(xi) Prepare strengthening of MDC training            MOCk/HA/Consultants          may 1988
capabilities by: (1) devising
detailed training program for road
maintenance and mechanical staff;
(2) determining related requirem nts
for additional facilities,
personnel, equipment and budget
resources; (3) determining the



- 71 -                                          AUNIX IV
Page 3 of 3
ActivitX                                       ResDonssb1ylk              TarUet Date
staffing and other requirements of
the proposed training section to
effectively adinister the program;
and (4) prepare a plan for the
implementation of the training program
and for setting up the training division.
(xii)prepare draft training program, including staff MOCH/HA                       August 1988 and each year
and budgetory requirements for following                                     thereafter for the duration
year for review with IOA.                                                    of the project.
(xiii) nominate (about 6) roads and (about 2)           HOCH/HA                     November 1987
mechanical engineers and (about 4)
training officers for fellowship
training abroad.
(xiv) Complete reconditioning of VtC and               MOCH/HA                     October 1988
and procurement of training materials
(xv) Complete procurement of training                 MOCH/HA                     August 1988
equipment
(xvi) Extend technical assistance                      KOCH/HA                     May 1988
consultants contract and start                   Consultants
implementation of road maintenance
and training programs.
(xvii) Prepare draft routine maintenance program        KOCH/HA                     August 1988 and each year
and equipment replacement schedule                                           thereafter for the
including budgetary requirements                                             duration of the proJect.
for following year for review with
IDA.
(xviii) Prepare draft periodic maintenance               MKOCH/HA                    August 1988 and each year
program for following five years                                             thereafter for the duration
including proposed financing for                                             of the project.
for review with IDA.
III.   Rad Kaster Plan
(xix) Complete selection and ewploy                    MOCH/HA                     January 1988
consultants for road master plan
study.
(xx) Prepare draft road master plan                   KOCH/HA                     February 1989
for review with IOA.                             Consultants
(xxi) Update road master plan for review               KOCH/HA                     August 1990
with IDA.                                                                    and each year thereafter
for the duration of the
project.



- 72 -
ANNEX V
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                        Cumulative Disbursements
and End of Quarter                         at End of Quarter
(US$) Million)
FY88
December 31, 1987                                   2.6
March 31, 1988                                      3.1
June 30, 1988                                       3.8
FY89
September 30, 1988                                  5.0
December 31, 1988                                   7.3
March 31, 1989                                      9.9
June 30, 1989                                      11.4
FY90
September 30, 1989                                 13.4
December 31, 1989                                  14.7
March 31, 1990                                     15.5
June 30, 1990                                      15.8
FY91
September 30, 1990                                 16.1
December 31, 1990                                  16.3
March 31, 1991                                     16.5
June 30, 1991                                      16.6
FY92
September 30, 1991                                 16.8
December 31, 1991                                  16.8
Closing Date: December 31, 1991
May 1987



- 73 -
ANNEX VI
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.       Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A.1      PDRY:  Transport Sector Memorandum, IDA, November 29, 1979.
A.2      Technical Assistance Mission, 1977-78, Ministry of Construction,
PDRY, Consultants: SOTECNI.
A.3      Organization Study on the Highway Administration, First Report
Ministry of Construction, PDRY, Consultants: Dorsch Consult, February 1979.
A.4      Transport Sector Study, Ministry of Communications, PDRY,
Consultants: RPT Economic Studies Group, June 1984.
B.       Reports and Studies Relating to Prolect
B.1      Technical Assistance Services 1983-1985, Ministry of Construction,
Consultants:  Kampsax International A/S.  In particular, the following
reports:
Title                                   Date
H.A. Construction Division Organization                  Nov. 83
Review of the Present Independent
Constructior. Units                                    Nov. 83
Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates                         Dec. 83
Benkelman Beam Survey Draft Report                       Nov. 83
Rod construction Programmes 1984/85 - 1986/90            Feb. 84
Axle Load Survey Project Report                          March 84
Traffic Counts Autumn 1983 Project Report                March 84
Management Accounting Report                             March 84
Maintenance Study Final Report                           July 84
Manpower and Training Review                             July 84
Justification for Establishment of a Const. Corp.        July 84
Feasibility Study of Nisab-Beiban Road                   Aug. 84
Cost Accounting within the Highway Authority             Oct. 84
Draft Cost Accountancy Manual                            Oct. 84
Review of Stores Procedures                              Oct. 84
Review of the Mechanical Service Organization            Sept. 84



- 74 -                                             CHART I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRASL REPORT OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organlzlon of the MInisty of Construction and Housing and Highway Authority
SIANNE DDPTPUvsiV
C84nm DEPT.MAIT.                    QCENT.             RN
FOenADeVNANCAMINTE OF.                                         L    GboR
FNAMECOMXDE                                                               ER
CORP. FOR  ep.ESEARCHO                                  &PLoboRtIS      CSORP FR ON
SupeivWon         RXS DENIR.AL HTOU9NGT
MNISIER  _   LNIMENT            Mc.w11LDINISAIEQ
;  OP.FR_ eERH &  _    _                 CADRE                           MP. w  F  ORCO
AUr'1RIY                                WARA                 D .STOES  _  D                  TRAFF
|GJJ_                          _SW~CTR SJDUTsR
|  IGFY_  ADME  _  TtiCD
O-SIGN                                                                                                         ASSIST AIOlY07M1:D
I CONTROLL          AI
_~~~CWA T CTQ.
COT c.dSAK
ViORKSHP.~  ACAORES Up|PWS  d                           EfI 
[ 7ANW. &                                                            REGION  KVHS  Monp I
'qxd                                                                                         Wool O*-30784:4



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APWRAISAL 2EPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR FOURTH AND FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECTS
..CY 1986    l         CY log?                     CY-   I  i         |       CY 1989 -
PROJECT ACTIVITY          _    314 r 1 1   2   1 3                 4 r  1       2 1 3   1 4    1 =t            1    2r3 T 4
HI-AYS I                                                                
WUILDtC6O IIDRKS            :::::: ::::::Z: m       oooooooooXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
WORKSHOP EQPT.                             ........... i                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
MAINTENANCE EQPT.           ::::::::::::::::::25000ooo00XXXXXYXXXXXXXX)
TECHNICAL ASSIST. & TOG.                                   ooooooXX)OXXXXXX) XX
RMDM  USER CHARGE STUDY     ..                             XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
WASIT-BEINAN RQAD M M                              I
CONSTRUCTION                m-'7'7c    o  a   XXNXXXX XX        NXXXXX       NXXXXXX XXXXX 'XXXXXX N XXXXXX' CXXXXXXCXIDOCCXXXX
CONSTQRUCTION SUPERV.              z2 aooooca eGooxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXN  XXKXN CXXXXXXXXXXXXN=
HIGHUYS V^
Neg.  Board  Sign.  E ff .
IDA CREDIT                                       -   o    a       o
TEnxCAL ASST. & TRG.                                                            XXXX K ,XXXXXJ( CXXua KXXXXXX CXXXXxK C2OCCKC Xxx
MAINTENANCE EQPT.                                  ::::: 77,     oo,  X XXXXXVXXXXXXI
REHMB. OF TRAINING FAC.                                 |      | ::::j  2o00Yfooooxxxxxx
CENTRAL WORKSHOP                                     :::.::: 1ZZZTZCoOxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXx
PERIODIC MAINT.                                         I      I      I      I
ROAD FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION                            ::o oXXXXX XXXXX XxXXXXX       I
URBAN ROADS                                             .::::::::: 00000ooXXXXXX NXXXXXXXKXXX
INTERURBAN ROADS                                           I    I        I      I      I
SHUORA-AM AYN                                           ........       ooooooXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
AM AYN-KM 206                                     I      I   :::::::::700 ooooooo0XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'XXx 
RIYAN-KM 67.O                                                                            X ::::::::::::::XZXooooooXXXXXXXXXXN ,XXXI
KM 206-KM 250                                     I                  8::::::::: : :voooooooXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX:X
KM 250-HAQABAN                                                       :::::::::::: Z77 oooooooXxxxxxxxxxxxxxyxxxxxx
ROAD MASTERPLAN STUDY                        ::::::::ZZ          nnKXooooooooooXXXXXXXXXXXXNXXXXXXXKXXXXXXX
Legend:        :::::    Document Preparation Period                oooooo   Bid/Proposal Evaluation Period
22a5ZtZ  Bid/Proposal Preparation Period            XXXXXX   Construction, Service or Delivery Period
May 1987
74890



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMN
STAFF APPRAISAL NEPOPiT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PEOJECT
DISDURSEMRNT PROFrLES
1Xx
90 
MWS V DISBURSE4BN  FORECAST
80 
70                                       /
60                       /                                              /EsTmTOmm                                I      TVES q
ALL RECIONS - ISf GHWYS
50_
40
30
20
10
0
4                                    6
YEARS FRO4 BOARD APPROVAL



To Lof.                                                 460
*To DjtDistrct Office   GREATER  ADEN   4T -l                                                           48'
AI_njlCal Workshop      AREA            tO Al 7
DAR SA'AD
lop Ahm.;d
SHAIKH OMHMAN
r              \                  /             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~180                                           /!
To Little Aden
\  't  KHORMAKSAR
// )~~~~
1TRAWAI      MA  LAA                         SIRA
CRAt ~~ISLAND ,/> *y
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-160              /
0°   . 1    2         4                                                       1/'
I I  I    I      i
KILOMETERS                                                            /'                     _
44°      To S                           Morib              0                       0b o                           a
SANAA         L                             ~~~~~~~Shob,wobe
/  1                       )    //    Se-<t  jH   /%         3 /i           w        X       C  %v)  1
\ ~~~ub/ ;-  r$    
To Hodeidoh                                             Hari
YErM EN  A RA B 
l         ~~~R E P Uf l Ci
mochaoSh )                                             7       kuqro
-..<          9    t    oh           A   Zlr4ibot
DN
(For Detoa See Inset)
L44'                                              460                                              48



______________________________________________ _                                    IBRD 1986:
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
_-soo"                        FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
YJr,1 t4in c. WAY PrOJ! CT
PRIMARY ROADS FOR ASPHALT OVERLAY
PRIMARY ROADS FOR BITUMINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT
--     SECONDARY ROADS FOR ASPHALT OVERLAY
2   MAINTENANCE DISTRICT OFFICES
C MAANIENANCE SUB-CAMPS
- . vit  {.   q"^   ^  <   ;  {                                    -      PRIMARY ROADS IASPHALT)
......... PRIMARY ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION (ASPHALT)
pThanwd                                                           -   SECONDARY ROADS
/                                                               ----MAIN TRACKS
Z                      ~~~~/  ,  __ 2?
Ih _NTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
A,f  AhiIPS RECEIVING SCHEDULED FLIGHTS
'r'' , '. s ? _'0 ',,  /  -- -.                                     4~  > /   FHARBOR
.   ,-; '2 {  /  _   ~   j   ~~_                1                    . ' / MINOR PORTS
->;  nm  .  _-_,>    G                 _ Ai __                7       AGRICULTURAL AREAS
- -Ghrr i  v.    .\  ,, , ,e Tt                         Am  -. LbutWADIS
Ghurof                                                                                                    E    '    ~  LFVATInN' IN' t.FTFPr
>       <RudjjiRudud                             1Fi /Rdt   2000
100°
o   TOWNS AND VILLAGES
~'  I                Ayhut.    BUILT-UP AREAS
0   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
.haii                                                                                        (ID*  NATIONAL CAPITALS
-       GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
W I -S.uhair   Shihr                                                                           -.- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.1 
.0     ''                                                                                               14t
0             S0             1 100          1S0           200
KILOMETERS
ba ,,L h. ue. a'ao fubU*1u ,e..f-"* {W Cu  0
tCF52°
._              .      {                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 198



