Page  1
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1823 YDR
                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                     (Fifth Highway Project)
                             between
              PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                               and
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 9, 1987
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 1823 YDR
                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 9, 1987, between PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (The Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance (the Cofinanciers) a loan or loans (the Cofinancier Loans)
in an aggregate amount equivalent to about $5,100,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement or agreements (the Cofinancier Loan Agreements) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW therefore the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings;
     (a)  "MOCH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction and
Housing, or any successor thereto; and
Page  2
     (b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE II
                           The Credit
     Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in the National Bank of
Yemen or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991, or
such later date as the Association shall establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) the Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b) The commitment charge shall be paid:  (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1997, and ending March 1,
2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                    Execution of the Project
Page  3
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOCH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                           ARTICLE IV
                  Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
           (ii)     furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than six
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records, accounts
                    and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                    from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
           (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the
                    completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                    Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Association's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
           (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
Page  4
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  Until the Closing Date, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by October 31 of each year or such later date as the
Association may agree, furnish to the Association for its
concurrence, MOCH's proposed:  (i) program for periodic road
maintenance over the following five-year period; (ii) program for
the routine road maintenance activities to be undertaken during the
following year; (iii) program for the training of MOCH's staff in
road and equipment maintenance for the following year; and (iv)
budgetary allocations for the carrying out of said programs during
the following year; and
     (b)  by December 31 of each year or such later date as the
Association may agree, ensure that annual budgetary allocations
required for the carrying out of the said programs during the
following year are made.
     Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  furnish to the Association for its review and comments,
a copy of the study referred to under Part C of the Project upon
its preparation;
     (b)  develop, by April 30, 1989 and thereafter carry out a
road master plan for the further development of the borrower's
highway system over the following five-year period agreed to by the
Borrower and the Association based on the results and conclusions
of the said study; and
     (c)  (i) by October 30 of each year thereafter, review, in
consultation with the Association, the details of the proposed
activities to be undertaken during the next following year pursuant
to the said road master plan; and (ii) on the basis of this review,
finalize, by December 31 of each such year, provide the budgetary
allocations for, and thereafter carry out the said activities
agreed to by the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall take all measures to ensure that
the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using the roads of its
highway system do not exceed limits consistent with the design
standards of such roads.
                            ARTICLE V
                   Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Cofinancier Loan Agreements shall have failed to
become effective by June 30, 1988, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
          (A)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
               pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
Page  5
               therefor; or
          (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
               prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
          (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
               prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
               Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
               such agreement; and
          (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
               consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     (c)  The allocation referred to in Section 4.02 (a) (iv) and
Section 4.02 (b) shall not have been included in the annual budget
of the MOCH.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                           ARTICLE VI
                   Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  that the selection of the consultant to carry out the
study referred to in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall
have been made;
     (b)  that the contract for employment of the consultant to
carry out the study referred to in Part A (7) of Schedule 2 to
Development Credit Agreement No. 1617 YDR between the Borrower and
the Association, dated October 4, 1985 ("Fourth Highway Project
Agreement"), shall have been signed; and
     (c)  that the contract for employment of the consultant to
provide technical assistance for road maintenance and training
programs referred to in Parts A and B of Schedule 2 to the Fourth
Highway Project Agreement shall have been signed.
     Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03.  The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
earlier.
                           ARTICLE VII
            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning
          P. O. Box 1193
          Aden
          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
          Cable address:                Telex:
               TAKHTEET                      2289 TKHTIT AD
               Aden
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D. C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable Address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                              PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                              By/s/ Abdulla S. Al-Astal
                                        Authorized Representative
                              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
                              By/s/ E. J. Stoutjesdijk
                                   Acting Regional Vice President
                             Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
            Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
                                   Amount of the          % of
                                   Credit Allocated
Expenditures
     Category                          in SDR's             to be
Financed
(1)  Works                                 5,450,000        68%
(2)  Goods                                 4,900,000        100% of
foreign
                                                       expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                      1,500,000       100% of
foreign
Page  7
     services and                                      expenditures
     training
(4)  Unallocated                           1,250,000
                                      __________
          TOTAL                            13,100,000
                                      ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 750,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1987.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                   Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to continue the development
of the Borrower's national highway system through the carrying out
of a routine and periodic road maintenance program and the
strengthening of the road maintenance, personnel training and
planning capabilities of MOCH.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Road Maintenance
     (1)  Carrying out of a three-year routine and periodic road
          maintenance program covering the period 1987 to 1989,
          including the provision of about 195 km of asphalt
          overlays and 175 km of resealing.
     (2)  Strengthening of the functions of the Maintenance
          Department of MOCH's Highway Authority, including the
          provision of road maintenance equipment, vehicles, spare
          parts, furniture for offices and staff housing and tools
          and materials for the manufacture and installation of
          traffic signs and road markings.
     (3)  Construction and equipping of a central works complex for
          the Mechanical Department of MOCH's Highway Authority at
          Dar Sa'ad to be utilized in the maintenance of MOCH's
          equipment.
Part B:  Staff Training
     (1)  Rehabilitation and expansion of MOCH's Vocational
          Training Center at Aden, including the provision of
          equipment, vehicles and training materials.
     (2)  Carrying out of a three-year training program covering
          the period 1987 to 1989 to upgrade the skills of MOCH's
          staff in road and equipment maintenance, including the
          provision of equipment, spare parts and training
          materials.
Page  8
Part C:  Road Master Plan
     Carrying out of a study to prepare a road master plan for the
further development of the Borrower's highway system.
Part D:  Flood Repair
     Repair of flood damages to the Borrower's highway system.
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
                           SCHEDULE 3
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for workshop and training
equipment shall be grouped in a single bid package together with
the workshop equipment to be procured pursuant to Part A.2 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement No. 1617 YDR, dated
October 4, 1985, between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $3,800,000, may, with the Association's
prior approval, be procured under negotiated contracts.
Part C:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more and for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more other than works procured under
negotiated contracts pursuant to Part B (3) of this Schedule 3, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information required
Page  9
to be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for
a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
Page  10
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
           (i) the Association shall have determined that all
               further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article V of the General
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
          (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
               allocated to the eligible Categories minus the
               amount of any outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Spacial Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit
Account.
