Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2400-TA
TANZANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A BANK LOAN
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK (TIB)
June 22, 1979
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA INVESTNFENT BANK
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =       T Shillings
T Sh 1.00                            US$0.12
US$1.00=                             T Shs 8.3
TarLzania Fiscal Year -- July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ABEDIA    -   Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
ADB       -   African Development Baia
BIS       -   Basic IndustryV Strategy
BOT       -   Bank of Tanzania
CFTC      -   Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
CIDA      -   Canadian International Development Authority
DDC       -   District De-velopment Corporation
EADB      -   East Africaen Development Bank
EEC       -   European Economic Community
KfW       -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NBC       -   National Bank of Commerce
NDC       -   National Developmiient Corporation
NIC       -   National Insurance Corporation
NORAD     -   Norwegian Agency for Development
NPC       -   Natibnal Price Commission
SIDA      -   Swedish International Development Authority
SIDO      -   Small Industries Development Organization
TDFL      -   Tanganyika Development 'Finance Company Limited
THB       -   Tanzania Housing Bank
TISCO     -   Tanzanian Industrial Stludies and Consultancy Organizati(:n
TPOSB     -   Tanganyika Post Office Savings Bank
TRDB      -   Tait; .ania Rural Develcpment Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK (TIB)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC  DATA  ....         ...............................................                           -  ii
I.    THE  ENVIRONMENT             ............................................                     I
A.    The  Industrial  Sector  .... .  .......................... .                    .     1
B.     The Financial  Sector                  ..................................    7
II.   THE  INSTITUTION  .............................................   10
A.     Institutional  Aspects  ......                 ...........................    10
Role  and  Objectives  ...............  .....................    10
Ownership  and  Board  .......... ..                ..................... ..   11
Management,  Organization  and  Staffing  ..............                     ...   11
Procedures  ..........................                  .......... ......    13
Investment  and Financial  Policies  ..................                      ...   13
Interest  Rate  and  Other  Charges  ....................                    ...   14
B.     Operations  and Finance                  ................................   15
Operations  ............................................    15
Portfolio  .............................................    16
Resources  .............................................    18
Financial  Situation               ...................................    18
Financial  Results             .....................................    19
C.     Economic  Impact  .....................  ... ........ .......   19
D.     Prospects  .............................................    20
TIB's  Strategy          ........................................    20
Projected  Operations  ............... ...................   21
Resource  Requirements                 .................................    21
Financial  Prospects               ...................................    22
III. THE PROJECT .................... 23
Objectives          ............................................    23
Description  of  the Project                   ............................   23
Project  Implementation  ...............                    .................   24
Benefits  and  Risks           ................. ...................   24
IV.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  .....................   25
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. Zia Ahmed and Yoshine Uchimura, which visited Tanzania in
November 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   -    Structure of Output and Employment in Medium- and Large-
Scale Manufacturing
ANNEX 2   -    Interest Rate Structure in Tanzania
ANNEX 3   -    Summary of Operations
ANNEX 4   -    Analysis of Loans, as of September 30, 1978
ANNEX 5   -    Historical Summarized Income Statements
ANNEX 6   -    Historical Summarized Balance Sheets
ANNEX 7   -    Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
ANNEX 8   -    Forecast of Operations
ANNEX 9   -    Projected Income Statements
ANNEX 10  -    Projected Balance Sheets
ANNEX 11  -    Projected Cash Flow
ANNEX 12  -    Projected Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 13  -    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
(US$1 = T Sh. 8.3)
1.   Date of Establishment:  November 1970
2.   Ownership
Authorized Capital                                 T Sh 200.0 million
Paid-up Capital                                          100.0 million
of which                                                Amount              %
Government of Tanzania                             T Sh 60 million             60
National Bank of Commerce 1/                             30 million            30
National Insurance Corporation 1/                        10 million            10
100                  100
3.   Resource Position (April 30, 1979) in T Sh millions
Sources                                            Domestic Funds   Foreign Funds
SIDA                                                                      367.0
KfW                                                        -               97.5
CIDA                                                       -               18.3
NORAD                                                      -              148.8
FINLAND                                                    _                4.4
ADB                                                        -               41.2
IDA Credit No. 460-TA                                      -               40.2
IBRD Loan No. 1172-TA                                      -              111.8
IBRD Loan No. 1498-TA                                      -              124.5
Paid-in Capital                                         100.0              18.8
Accumulated Profits                                      47.7                -
Depreciation and Provisions                              10.2
Treasury Fund                                            39.9             _
Total                                                197.8              972.5
Uses
Loans                                                 96.8              405.2
Equity Investments                                     29.3              16.9
Technical Assistance                                     -                2.9
Fixed Assets                                            2.5                -
128.6             425.0
Available for Disbursement                               69.2             547.5
Undisbursed Commitments
Loans                                                  47.5             432.5
Equity                                                 15.0               4.1
Technical Assistance                                     -                1.4
62.5             438.0
Available for Commitment                                  6.7             109.5
1/   100% Government-owned.



- ii -
4.   Summary off Operations and Finance
Year ending June 30                      1974    1975    1976    1977    1378
Operations
Approvals (T Sh million)
Loans                                  97.1   128.5   150.4   309.5   339.7
Equity Investments                      7.2      0.7    10.6       5.8      4.5
Total                             104.3   129.2   161.0   315.3   54 .2
Commitments (T Sh million)
Loans                                  54.3   131.4   120.8    43.1   221.8
Equity Investments                      5.2      0.7    10.6       3.8    _2.0
Total                              59.5   132.1    131.4    46.9   '23.8
Disbursements (T Sh million'
Loans                                  39.0    70.3    77.6   142.i    92.6
Equity Investments                      4.8     _         0.5      1.7     5.1
Total                              43.8    70.3    78.1   143.8    97.7
Finance                                  1974    1975    1976    1977    1378
Financial Results (T Sh C000)
Total Income                          8,484  13,807  20,060  29,365  '7,182
Profit After 'ax                      1,166   3,523   4,517   7,110  13,595
Profit After Cax as % of
Average Net Worth                    1.7     3.0      2.5      7.8      3.6
Financial Situation (r Sh million)
Net Worth                              78.0   159.0   206.9   302.4   c.66.2
Total Assets                          155.9   265.1   336.6   474.2   595.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                       1.0      0.6      0.6      0.5      3.4
5.   Interest Rate and Other: Chanes
Interest Rate on Loans:       Minimum of 10.0%.  Currently charging  1.0%
Commitment Charges:            1% p.a. on undisbursed balarces
Commission Fee:                1% on approved loan amount
Foreign Exchange Risk:         lorne by the subborrowers
6.   Status of Bank Group Lines of Credit (Oune 15, 1979)
IDA Credit      Bank Loan         Bank Loan        IDA Cred.ct
460-TA         1172-TA           1498-TA           601-TA
TechnicO.l
Assistanice
Date of
Effectiveness   Apr. 18, 197'4  Feb. 20, 1976   Apr. 3, 1973   Sept. 14, 1176
Amount of
Credit           S6 million       $15 million       $15 million    S6 milliolL
Authorized          S6 million      $15 million       $12 million    S3.9 million
Disbursed and
outstanding      $5.4 mil:Lion   $13.2 million   S3.5 million   $2.4 mill:oit
Foreign
Exchange Risk   Borne by
Sub-borrower   Same               Same             N.A.
.erminal date
of project
suDmiss4on       Dec. 31, 197  Dec. 31, 1977   Dec. 31, 1980  Dec. 31,  199
Closing date
for di sburse-
n.eats            Dec. 31, 1979  Dec. 31, 1980   Dec. 31, 1983  Dec. 31, 1g19
Free limit          S100,000        5400,000          S800,000         S50,C00
Afgregate
frae limit       Si *-illion      53 miil;cn        S7 mi liion     N. A.



I. THE ENVIRONMENT
A.   The Industrial Sector 1/
1.01      Industrial Strategy.  After gaining independence in 1961, Tanzania
adopted an industrial strategy which aimed at increasing domestic production
through import substitution, relying mainly on private foreign investment.
The Arusha Declaration of 1967 charted a completely new course for Tanzania
based on socialism and self-reliance. It involved the transfer of ownership
and control of a number of large enterprises from the private to the public
sector and sought to increase the rate of employment growth and improve the
income distribution between urban and rural areas. Henceforth, most major
industries would be publicly owned and most new investments would be in the
public sector.
1.02      The Government's present strategy towards the development of the
industrial sector is based on the Basic Industrial Strategy (BIS) which was
adopted in 1974. The two main goals of this strategy are structural trans-
formation and self-reliance. The strategy in its pure form emphasizes the
use of domestic resources for domestic needs. Priority will be given to
industries which cater for the basic needs of the majority of Tanzanians, such
as food, shelter, health, etc. Emphasis is also given to the development of
heavy industries, such as iron and steel and engineering. By using local
resources and producing for the local market, the BIS envisages a structural
transformation of the economy through a system of backward and forward link-
ages. Although basically oriented towards the domestic market, the BIS also
mentions the need to expand export-oriented, agricultural processing indus-
tries to increase the foreign exchange earning capacity of the country.
Large-scale national enterprises (in the public sector) will operate heavy
industries and produce export goods, whereas consumer goods and other day-
to-day items will be produced by medium- and small-scale industries.
1.03      The potential problems with the BIS are that attempts to restructure
the economy too quickly during a period of resource stringency may ultimately
frustrate both growth and structural change. A too-rapid expansion of the
metals sector (especially steel production) may lead to more reliance on
external finance, know-how and markets and the massive investment coordination
required by the strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning
capacity. Moreover, effective implementation of the strategy will require
specific changes in the macro policy framework towards a protection and tariff
structure which does not discriminate against backward linkage import substi-
tution, discourage domestic production of capital goods, nor confer high and
widely varying effective rates of protection to the production of consumer
goods.
..04      Institutional and Policy Framework.  The institutional structure of
Tanzanian industry derives from the system of economic management that has
been adopted since 1967. This system, with its emphasis on central planning
and direct economic controls to guide the direction and level of investment
and the distribution of income between the various segments of the community,
has necessitated direct public sector ownership and control of large units
1/   A detailed analysis of the sector is given in "Tanzania Basic Economic
Report: Annex V" (No. 1616-TA), December 1977.



-2-
in important economic sectors such as manufacturing, banking, insurance, and
wholesale trading.  Almost all large scale industrial production in Tan,;ania,
therefore takes place in wholly or majority Government-owned companies,
operating under the aegis of holding parastatals, which, in turn, are organ-
izationa]ly responsible to parent ministWries. 1/  The holding companies are
organizecd along product or process lines (e.g., National Textile Corporetion),
and serve as planners or advisors to and supervisors of the operating c(m-
panies under them.  They receive commissions and fees from the operatinE
companies to cover their costs of providing these services.  I-n additionl :o
this parastatal system all District Development Corporations (DDCs) are
charged with promoting productive investments in their districts, and may
therefore, sponsor and own industrial enterprises.
1.05      As noted, this institutional framework has been designed to enable
Government control over sectoral investmTent and production act-Lvities which
are considered of national importance. In the investment area,, attempts are
made to exercise this control through centralized approval of projects adcl
allocation of finance. Thus, although new project ideas in the public snctor
may originate from the parent ministry, holding company, operating company
or any other national agencies concerned with industrial development, ap:roval
of all investments is required at some stage by the Economic Committee o- the
Cabinet. In cases where funds for a project would require budgetary alloca-
tion, as is the case for all Government equity contribution to projects,
parliamentary approval is also required. Project preparation and appraisal is
mostly done by the holding parastatals with the aid of external consultants in
most cases.
1.06      At the same time that this institutional structure was being set up,
policies were introduced to facilitate and reinforce central planning and
control. In the macro area, a system of comprehensive import licensing is
operated by which Government, through parastatals, determines what indus rial
goods are to be imported. A system of annual foreign exchange allocatior-s
aims at ensuring that foreign exchange is only available for such approvcd
imports. In addition, a system of protective import duties exists to pr(tact
local producers. Wage scales are set by the Standing Committee on Parastatals
(SCOP) and conditions of service in all parastatals have been standardized,
salary levels being similar to those obtained in the civil service. Governl-
ment policy also aims at worker participation in management decisions. FrLces
of industrial output are controlled, along with all other prices, by a National
Price Commission, which has been using a cost-plus price system for setting
the ex-factory prices of locally produced goods. This central planning end
control system has therefore reduced the role of macro incentive tools
typical in free market economies in investment and production decisions in
Tanzanian industry. In practice, the system is faced with a series of
problems which are detailed below (paragraph 1.13).
1/   As of June 1977, there were 97 operating companies under 17 holding
parastatals, reporting to 4 operating ministries involved in industrial
development.



- 3 -
1.07      Two other institutions are involved with the industrial sector.  The
National Institute of Productivity, set up in 1967 with ILO's assistance, has
been providing consulting and management training services to middle-level
managers of parastatal enterprises. In order to provide facilities for
industrial studies and consultancy, the Government established the Tanzanian
Industrial Studies and Consultancy Organization (TISCO) in 1976, receiving
financial and technical assistance from SIDA. Although TISCO has the primary
responsibility for carrying out consultancy services in Tanzania, foreign
consultants have been engaged in areas where TISCO lacks the necessary
expertise. 1/
1.08      Small-Scale Industries.  On the basis of information available,
small-scale industries (SSIs) appear concentrated in those areas normally
associated with early industrialization, for example grain milling and
bakeries, clothing, wood products including furniture, printing and soap pro-
ducts.  Due to the lack of sufficient data, it is difficult to accurately
isolate the performance of SSIs; however estimates show that value added by
SSIs 2/ in manufacturing declined from 44% in 1966 to 23% in 1974. This
appears to be due to the emphasis placed by the Government on large-scale
projects in the public sector and lack of clear policies on the role of
private investors.
1.09      The Government has in recent years acknowledged the need to develop
SSIs (paragraph 1.02) and established the Small Industries Development
Organization (SIDO) in 1973 to have primary responsibility for planning,
promoting and providing all kinds of assistance to small-scale industries.
SIDO has set up three industrial estates for SSIs and has also set up 11
training-cum-production centers for imparting skill and craft training. Its
other activities include preparation of feasibility studies, provision of
hire-purchase finance, marketing and other technical assistance. The Govern-
ment envisages a larger role for SIDO in the development of the SSI sector and
has requested the Bank Group to assist SIDO in the matter. A reconnaissance
mission from the Bank visited SIDO last May and another mission visited
Tanzania in February-March 1979 to identify and prepare an SSI project. The
report is presently under preparation.
1.10      Performance and Structure.  Industry in Tanzania grew fairly rapidly
compared to the overall economy since independence in 1961. The share of the
manufacturing and handicraft sector which accounted for just under 4% of GDP
in 1961, increased to 8% in 1965 and has remained around 10% since 1970.
Total manufacturing employment increased from about 28,000 in 1965 to about
85,000 in 1977. Value added in manufacturing grew rapidly at an average rate
of 10.8% between 1965 and 1969, but averaged 7.4% between 1970 and 1973.
While limitations of sector data prevent any firm conclusions about the causes
I/   For example, TIB's Feasibility Studies Unit which was created to channel
funds under IDA's Technical Assistance Project has engaged foreign
consultants for feasibility and other studies.
2/   Defined as enterprises with less than 10 employees.



- 4 -
of this declining growth rate, indications are that there was an increase
in the incremental capital-output ratio, implying a lower rate of growth
in relation to investment in the latter years. The evidence further
suggests that this decline was due to both a shift toward more capital
intensive investment, and a decline in t'he productivity of capital. After
virtual stagnation in 1974 and 1975 because of the economic crisis in thcse
years and its attendantt supply problems for i'ndustrial inputs and parts,
industrial output appoears to have recovered, showing a growth rate averaging
about 6.4% in 1976 and 5.4% in 1977.
1.11      Tanzania's industrial structure has undergone a fairly rapid
change from the rudimentary structure inherited at independence in 1961
producing a very limited range of goods, to a more diversified structure,
producing a larger variety of basic food and non-food consumer goods, inter-
mediate goods such as saw-milling and plywood, leather, aluminum re-rolling,
chemicals and plastics and some capital goods such as vehicle assembly.
Tanzanian manufacturing is still dominated by production of consumer goods
for the domestic market. Consumer goods accounted for 71% of output and
68% of employment for manufacturing enterprises with 10 or more employees
in 1965.  In 1976, the share of consumer goods to total output and employ-
ment was 50% and 69% respectively.
1.12      Public Sector.  Following the Arusha Declaration of 1967, the
Government systematically transferred the control and ownership of a number
of large private- and foreign-owned industrial enterprises to parastatals,
and also established new enterprises, operating them as parastatals. Para-
statals accounted for 53% of the value added and 48% of the employment in
the industrial sector in 1976. However, notwithstanding the rapid growth of
public enterprises since 1967, the private sector in manufacturing remain::.
surprisingly large accounting for 47% of value added and 52% of employmen:.
1.13      Development Issues.  As may be expected, the institutional and
structural changes that have been taking place in Tanzanian industry over
the past decade, have -brought in their wake a number of problems which hai1e
affected sectoral performance. First is an apparent decline in labour
productivity, particularly in the parastatal sector. This can be traced
mainly to a lack of a clear-cut micro-incentive framework for parastatal
companies.  Clear and unambiguous criteria for judging performance are yet:
to emerge, and managers, even if they are competent, have lacked a system
of rewards and penalties for stimulating required performance from workers.
The cost-plus price system has also tended to work against cost reduction,
and has not therefore discouraged overmanning. Second, there have been
excess capacity problems in certain industries because of a tendency to
overbuild capacity in relation to supply. This gets exacerbated when short-
ages of raw materials and spare parts become acute (as is frequent if the
foreign exchange situation deteriorates). Third, the real rate of return :r
capital invested in parastatals has been falling, with the result that para-
statal surpluses have lagged in relation to the growth of output. This is
largely attributed to the decline in parastatal labour productivity.  Four -,



- 5 -
the central investment planning system has been ineffective. Originally
designed to ensure coordination in the choice of investments to meet overall
sector strategy, the system, in practice, has tended to place great focus
on the annual budget as a major instrument of control. The planning office
has not got the staff to coordinate investment plans of parastatals, and as
such most parastatals have been able to plan and undertake investments with-
out much central control. Fifth, because of the uncertainty and fear of
takeovers, the resources of the private sector have not been effectively
harnessed for sectoral needs. Finally, as discussed in paragraph 1.08, the
potential contribution of SSIs, especially to employment creation in the
sector, is yet to be realized.
1.14      Government is aware of these problems, and is making efforts to
resolve them. It has acknowledged the problems of low labor productivity
and low capacity utilization, and is stressing the need to increase pro-
ductivity through a review of the cost-plus pricing system. While decisions
on major policy changes relating to incentives, price and import control
systems and the control of parastatals will take time because of the import-
ance and breadth of the issues, there are already indications that at the firm
level a number of improvements have been made. Some of these improvements are
not due to any overall policy directives but are the result of individual
initiatives by firms' managers in a more favourable industrial environment.
The improvements include some cases of retrenchment in over-manned parastatals,
better discipline among workers mainly due to improved relations of the
managers with the Labour Union, JUWATA, better worker participation in certain
aspects of decision-making, introduction of incentive (in kind) system in a
few firms and relaxation of limitations on recruitment of expatriate experts.
Regarding capacity utilization, the National Development Corporation (NDC),
the largest parastatal holding company, recently implemented the recommenda-
tions of a firm of management consultants and has been able to achieve
improvement in the operating efficiency of some of its subsidiaries.
1.15      The Bank Group has also raised these issues in its discussions with
the authorities both within the context of its general economic work in
Tanzania and of specific projects in the industrial sector. It has also
provided funds under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit for carrying out
studies to improve efficiency in the industrial sector. Among the studies
currently in progress are (i) capacity utilization studies initiated by Texco
in respect of its subsidiaries and (ii) measurement and improvement of pro-
ductivity studies carried out by TIB with assistance from two experts from the
International Executive Service Corps. TIB is also contemplating to engage
experts to study inventory control practices in Tanzania and to suggest
*           improvements.
1.16      On the issue of the role of the private sector, the Government has
clarified, at the highest level, that the Arusha Declaration did not preclude
private investment in industry, and that the private sector would be encour-
aged in all areas not specifically reserved for full Government control. This
has been followed in practice by greater liberalism in processing of applica-
tions for industrial licenses and importation of spare parts and raw materials



- 6j -
to encourage the growth of private industries.  It may however be necessa-y
in future, to issue a new Guide to Investors clearly specifying policies
on price control, import licensing, dividend transfer restricticns, income
taxation, etc.  Regarding small-scale industries, Government is aware of
the unintended restrictions which its policies have placed on their develiop-
ment, and appears responsive to a specific effort by the Bank Group to
assist in reviewing such policies.
1.17      Prospects.  The Third Five Year Plan (1976-1981), currently undlr
implementation, is the first phase of implementation of this Basic Stratel;y.
Under this plan, the specific objectives are to improve the efficiency anc.
capacity utilization in the existing industries so as to increase output, t
expand and establish new industrial capacity for production for basic neecs,
and to lay the foundations for the implementation of the Basic Strategy.  The
targeted growth rate for the sector is 9.3% per annum compared to an overoll
targeted growth rate of the economy of 6.0%. In line with the important role
which industry plays in the plan, a total of Shs 5,147 million, (24% of tile
total investment allocation in the plan), has been earmarked for public
investment in the sector.
1.18      The Ministry of Industries will be directly responsible for imple--
menting projects involving T Shs 2,747 million or 53% of the total Governmelnt
development budget for the industrial sector projects; the remaining 47% wFill
be implemented by other ministries and agencies.  The sub-sectoral allocation
of the projected investment is as follows: construction and building matErLals
T Shs 929 million; metalworking, engineering and chemicals T Shs 820 milli DIL;
textile and garments T Shs 600 million; leather and leather goods T Shs 224
million; and Small-Scale Industries T Shs 178 million.
1.19      The Government's emphasis on productivity, work and discipline
(para 1.14) has had the effect of increasing investor confidence in the
sector and improving the overall investment climate. Following the Presi-
dent's statement late in 1977 encouraging private investors to establish
medium- and small-scale industries, there has been an upsurge in investmen:
activity by the private sector, In addition to the public outlays in the
Third Five Year Plan, Government expects considerable private investment,
especially in the small- and medium-sca:Le industries, to suppleme!nt the
resources it will provide in meeting the investment needs of the sector.
1.20      During the first two years of the plan, the average growth rates
achieved were 5.9% for industry and 5.3% for the overall economy.  The drop
in coffee prices, Tanzania's major export, has resulted in a marked deteri::-
ration in t'he country's balance of payments. Due to the lack of foreign
exchange, the Government has been forcecd to impose restrictions cn imports
and devalued the Tanzanian shilling by 10% in January 1979. Given the low
initial growth rates and the constraints presently facing the sector, it w>ll
be difficult for industry to achieve the growth envisaged in the plan.
1.21      Bank Group Experience in the Industrial Sector.  Apart from finar-
cing industrial projects through credit lines to TIB, TDFL and EADB, the B; n&
Group presently is fina-ncing four projects for a total amount of $143 million.



textile sector through the National Textile Corporation, first a loan of $15
million to expand an existing operation and second, a loan of $25 million and
an IDA credit of $20 million to set up a new integrated polyester textile
mill. The Bank also approved two loans totalling $23 million for an industrial
complex at Morogoro in 1977, wherein a canvas mill and a shoe factory will be
set up with the primary objective of exporting their output. Early this
year the Bank Group has approved a loan of $30 million and an IDA credit of
$30 million for the Mulfindi Pulp and Paper Project.  The project consists of
the establishment of an integrated pulp and paper mill with an initial capacity
of 60,000 tons per annum of paper and board as well as 1,400 tons of pulp for
sale outside the mill.  IDA has also approved a Small-Scale Industries compo-
nent in its Second National Sites and Services Project ($1.4 million) to
provide assistance to small-scale industries in Tabora and Tanga. The program,
which is being administered by SIDO, would provide infrastructure for industrial
clusters, credit for equipment and management and technical assistance to
selected small enterprises. IFC has recently approved investments of $3.3
million in two privately owned enterprises involving soap and metal products
manufacturing and is also looking at other project possibilities. The Bank
Group's experience with these projects, which are under various stages of
implementation, is generally satisfactory. Only the SSI component in the
urban project is experiencing delays in implementation.
B.   The Financial Sector
1.22      Institutional Structure.  In terms of appropriate institutions,
Tanzania's financial system is relatively well developed. In addition to the
Central Bank, the Bank of Tanzania and TIB, there are eight other financial
institutions: a commercial bank, three development banks, a savings bank,
a housing bank, an insurance company and a national provident fund. 1/ All
the institutions are state-owned except for the East African Development
Bank (EADB), the majority of whose shares are held jointly by the Governments
of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, and the Tanganyika Development Finance Corpora-
tion (TFDL) which is jointly owned by TIB and the bilateral aid agencies
of the U.K., West Germany and the Netherlands. Tanzania has no private
capital market and the bulk of equity investments is provided by the Govern-
ment directly through the budgetary process.
1.23      Six institutions carry out lending operations.  TIB, TDFL, EADB,
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) and the National Bank of Commerce
(NBC) lend to the productive sectors whereas the Tanzania Housing Bank (THB)
provides funds for commercial and residential buildings, including low-cost
housing. TRDB mainly operates in the rural sector and makes short-term loans
for seasonal inputs and also provides medium- and long-term loans for machinery,
transport, storage and livestock. Other short-term funds for working capital
are provided by NBC. Most of NBC's loans were extended to industry and
mining, and to the marketing of agricultural products.
1/   A Summary of the activities of these institutions is available in the
Project file.



- 8 -
1.24      Medium- and long-term financing for the modern sectors of manufac--
turing, agro-business, tourism, transport, etc. is provided by EADB, TDFL
and TIB.  Although there is a limited overlapping of functions among these
three institutions, their respective roles are well defined and t:here is ro
costly duplication of effort.  EADB's charter does not authorize it to mak2
more than 38.75% of its investment in Tanzania. Moreover, EADB's role has
diminished considerably because of the uncertainty surrounding its future With
the dissolution of the East African Community.  TDFL has a relatively small
equity base and provides funds mainly to medium-size, private enterprises.
Although TIB has increased its lending to the private sector, it has concei-
trated on large-scale enterprises. In FY 1978 the average size of a TIB loan
was T Shs 13 million (for private sector loans, T Shs 10 million) compared to
T Shs 2 million (T Shs 2.9 million for both loans and equity investments)
for TDFL.  Moreover, TIB owns 30% of TDFL's shares and has two directors oni
its board and thus helps to coordinate the operations of the two organizat:ons.
Resource Mobilization
1.25      'Mobilization of savings from the public is carried out by five
institutions, namely, NBC, THB, Tanganyika Post Office Savings Bank (TPOSB,
the NationaL Insurance Corporation (NIC), and the National Provident Fund
(NPF). NBC, THB and TPOSB, with branch networks, mobilize savings through
deposit accounts. NBC is the most important mobilizer of savings in Tanzan.ia.
As of December 31, 1977 its total deposits exceeded T Shs 6.2 billion.  TH].
had deposits of T Shs 226 million at the end of 1977 and TPOSB had mobilized
deposits of T Shs 118 million as of March 31, 1978.
1.26      Tanzania has a high level of savings compared to its income level.
The share of domestic savings to GDP has f:Luctuated around 17% since the
mid-1960's, except during the economic crisis of 1974/75 when it fell to
around 8%. The Government has been able to mobilize domestic resources
through a combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or
moderately progressive indirect taxes. The share of Government recurrent
revenue to GDP averaged about 20% in 1977.  With the emergence of public
enterprises as a result of the Arusha Declaration, the parastatal sector was
looked upon as the major saving entity in the country. The performance of
this sector, with the exception of the financial parastatals, has however,
not been up to expectations.  The Bank's Basic Economic Report concluded that.,
while interest rates will remain less important in resource allocation in
Tanzania's command economy than in less controlled economies, they could still
play a role on the mobilization side. It therefore recommended a more actiie
interest rate policy to stimulate savings particularly from the private
sector. The interest rate on deposits which varied between 4% and 6.5%
depending on term, was considered low in the light of the inflation rates
which, measured by GDP deflator, ranged between 14.5% and 16.2% during
1975 - 1977. Similarly a case was made for increasing the lending rates of
the financial parastatals, which had a proven record of being better savers
than other parastatals, to enable the former to generate more surpluses.



- 9 -
1.27      The Government's role in allocation of resources is more important
than in resource mobilization due to the centralized investment decision-
making. Allocations from the development budget are made to parastatals
annually in accordance with the Third Five-Year Plan targets. However, the
Government is able to influence resource mobilization from the parastatal
financial institutions by directing them to invest their surpluses in Govern-
ment stocks, bonds and Treasury bills. These institutions play an important
role in financing public investment in Tanzania. Medium and long term
government security sales to the financial institutions accounted for 27%
oF .h- development budget in FY1978. 1/ Furthermore, as of March 31, 1978,
the Government's borrowings from the banking system stood at over T Shs 3.1
billion.
Interest Rates
1.28      In an effort to revise the overall interest rate structure in
the country with a view to influencing resource mobilization and allocation
and reflecting Government priorities, the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) directed
NBC, THB, TIB and TRDB in May 1978 to adopt a new interest rate structure
(see Annex 2) effective July 1, 1978. The new schedule authorizes NBC and
THB to increase their deposit rates slightly.  It also permits the NBC to
increase its rates on loans across the board by 1%. On the other hand, BOT
has directed TIB and TRDB to reduce their rates on loans, with the exception
of sub-loans made out of foreign credit lines for which the terms and condi-
tions of the credit lines would be applicable. While the increase in the
deposit rates and the lending rates for NBC are in line with the recommenda-
tions of the Basic Economic Report, the reduction in the lending rates of
TIB and TRDB is contrary to the Bank's views (para. 1.29).
1.29      Issues.  There are two important issues in the Tanzanian financial
sector. The first relates to the recent BOT directive to TIB and TRDB to
reduce their lending rates to the levels desired by BOT. The Bank's view
is that the appropriate lending rate should be determined after taking into
consideration the existing and projected inflation rates, the rates charged
by other financial institutions for similar loans in Tanzania, the need for
an adequate spread and the opportunity cost of capital.
1.30      Secondly, because of the unusual risks involved in financing small-
scale industries, the high cost of administering such loans and the uncertainty
regarding the Government's policies in the sector, the financial institutions
have been reluctant in the past to provide short- and medium-term financing
to the sector. In view of the recent Government interest irn accelerating
the development of the Small-Scale Industries sector, there is need for the
financial institutions to evolve pragmatic policies and delivery mechanisms
designed to assist the sector and to coordinate their activities more closely
than in the past. This issue is proposed to be handled in the context of a
possible IDA Credit for the small scale industries sector in the near future.
1/   Loans and grants from external sources accounted for 55% of the
development budget.



- 10 -
1.31      Bank Experience in the Financial Sector.  The Bank has been extea-
sively involved with TIB since 1974. To date the Bank has made one IDA cradit
and two loans to TIB for a total amount of $36 million. Progress on these
projects has been sati.sfactory and TIB has grown into a well-organized il sti-
tution and an efficient allocator of medium- and long-term funds to the
productive sector.  Furthermore, the Bank has made two loans of $23 millf.ol to
EADB, of which equivalent of $9 million has been invested in projects loca:ed
in Tanzania. The Bank Group is presently expanding its role in the sectcr;
it has recently approved a loan of $11 million for TDFL and is appraising
TRDB for a credit of $8 million and is attempting to identify a Small-Scale
Industry project.
II. THE INSTITUTION
A.   Institutional Aspects
Role and Objectives
2.01      Since its establishment in 1970, TIB has been very ac;:ive in pro-
viding mediuim- and long-term financing to enterprises in the directly prc5luc-
tive sectors of the economy. TIB's emphasis has been on assisting the medium-
and large-scale enterprises, most of which are in the public sector. It aE.s
also provided financial assistance to the private sector although this ac2cunts
for a relatively small share. Over the years TIB has developed its capabi]ity
to make sound investment decisions and has thus been providing an indepeniEnt
check on the financial, technical and economic feasibility of projects su:-
mitted by parastatal organizations for financing. Its project appraisal 2epa-
bility is thus making a useful impact on the quality of resource allocati)r.
in Tanzania. Because of its reputation, it has become an import:ant inter-
mediary for channelling resources from international and bilateral agencies
into productive enterprises.  In recent years it has widened the spectrum
of its activities to include project identification and promotion, assistance
in project implementation and commissioning of a variety of stucdies.  As  h1.e
intermediary for channelling funds under IDA's Technical Assistance Projelt
(Credit No. 601-TA $6 million), TIB has been active in assisting parastatals
to have pre-investment and feasibility studies carried out by reputed con,ul-
tants in respect of several new project ideas developed by them. It has also
engaged consultants to carry out capacity-utilization and efficiency studIes
in respect of certain on-going projects which were experiencing operationil
problems and working at low capacity.
2.02      TIB has also taken initiatives in a few other areas; these are,
(i) commissioning a study for measurement and improvement of productivity in
public sector industrial enterprises, 1/ (ii) convening a seminar of TIB
1/   The first phase of the study, which is now complete, was undertaken
by two volunteers from the International Executive Service Corps. T.e
second phase will be undertaken in the near future.



- 11 -
clients, including senior officials of the parastatal organizations, to
explain to them TIB's objectives, policies and procedures and thereby to
help expedite the process of project implementation and (iii) planning a
study of inventory control practices in a few selected enterprises with a
view to suggesting improvements and laying down norms.
Ownership and Board
2.03      TIB was established in 1970 as a parastatal organization.
It has a paid-in capital of T Shs 100 million which is owned 60% by the
Government, 30% by the National Bank of Commerce and 10% by the National
Insurance Corporation. 1/
2.04      TIB's Board consists of nine members including the Chairman who is
also the Managing Director. The Chairman is appointed by the President and
the other eight members are nominated by the shareholders (five by the
Minister of Finance, two by NBC and one by NIC). The Board takes a keen
interest in TIB's activities and is quite independent in making decisions
on investment proposals and on policy matters.
Management, Organization and Staffing
2.05      TIB's Managing Director, who is very competent and dedicated, has
held that position since 1972. He concentrates on policy matters
and external relations and, with the help of a good management information
system, is able to provide dynamic leadership to the institution. He is ably
assisted in the day-to-day management of TIB by his General Manager, who was
formerly TIB's Director of Operations, and has occupied the present position
for about a year.
2.06      TIB has constituted four committees to assist the management in
operational and administrative matters. The Loan Committee, which is chaired
by the Managing Director, meets weekly and considers all financing proposals
before their presentation to the Board. The other Committees are the Manage-
ment Committee, Staff Appointment Committee and Housing Allocation Committee,
which are chaired by the General Manager.
2.07      TIB's organization consists of four departments:  Operations, Plan-
ning and Development, Finance and Administration, each headed by a qualified
Tanzanian.  The organization is appropriate for TIB's requirements.  The
Operations Department is responsible for project appraisal and follow-up.
TIB carries out a thorough appraisal of projects; its capability in this
area has shown consistent improvement. The Follow-up Division, although still
short of professional staff, has made considerable progress in recent years.
Early this year a wood technologist from Sweden joined this Division and is
concentrating on evaluating the performance of wood processing projects and
I/   Both NBC and NIC are wholly Government-owned.



- 12 -
also on strengthening pre-disbursement procedures.  Another technical exp:ert
from Norway is expected to join this Division in the near future.  With  taese
two experts, TIB expects to improve considerably its monitoring of project
implementation. TIB's proposed recruitment program (paragraph 2.13) shoi:lf
take care of the Department's staffing needs.
2.08      The Planniig and Development Department has the responsibility for
project identification and promotion.  The Department has so far identifie,d
and promoted a number of projects, seven of which have been approved by TIII
for financing, two are currently under appraisal, and ten others are beinig
studied fcor promotion. TIB is also promoting five sub-sectoral studies on
animal feed, building hardware, pharmaceuticals, sisal and raw materials
for soap and detergents.
2.09       The Department has also taken over the management of the FeasibiLity
Studies Unit, which was set up in 1976 to implement the Technical Assistance
Project for which IDA had approved a credit of $6 million. This unit is
required to (i) process requests from the parastatal organizations for pra-
investment and feasibility studies, and efficiency studies, (ii) prepare
terms of reference for consultants to be engaged for carrying out the stuijes,
(iii) evaluate the studies and (iv) provide training to the staff of the
parastatals. Initially, a consultancy firm was engaged to man this unit, hut
the contract with the firm was allowed to lapse in October 1978 as TIB di(d not
consider its performance up to expectations.  TIB's professional staff, which
has gained some experience in this area, should be able to manage this unit
adequately with the assistance of the expatriate technical experts present:ly
working with TIB.
2.10      The Finance Department has three divisions:  Accounts, Controll'irs
and Disbursements. The Department is respons:ible for financial planning .nd
control, preparation of accounts and financia:L reports, disbursement of lPans
and equity investments and collections.
2.11      Trne Internal Audit Unit, although administratively a part of the
Finance Department, reports directly to thle General Manager. It provides aa
independent: check on T:[B's operating procedures and has helped strengthen
accounting records.
2.12      The Administration Department is responsible for personnel manaie-
ment, general administrative services and Board secretarial work.
2.13      As of December 31, 1978, TIB had a professional staff of 43, of
whom eight were expatriates, funded by UNDP, SIDA, CIDA, NORAD a:ad CFTC.
Of the latter, seven are technical experts with specialization in chemical
engineering' mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, mining, wood
technology and agronomy and one in financial management. Two more expatriat:e
engineers are expected to join shortly. In view of the acute shortage of
engineers in Tanzania, TIB has on its staff only three Tanzanian engineers; it
is making efforts to recruit fresh graduates with technical quallfications,
with a view to training them further in various engineering disc.plines.
Until it is self-sufficient in technically, qualified Tanzanian personnel, ElB



- 13 -
will continue to recruit experienced expatriates to fill the vacancies. The
professional staff is distributed as follows: Operations Department 18, of
whom 4 are expatriates (Appraisal Division - 8 Tanzanians and 3 expatriates
and Follow-up Division - 6 Tanzanians and one expatriate); Planning and
Development Department - 11, of whom 3 are expatriates; Finance Department -
10 including one expatriate; and Administration Department - 4 Tanzanians.
In order to cope with the projected expansion of its operations, TIB is
planning to recruit 14 Tanzannian professionals and two expatriate technical
experts in the near future. These professionals will be assigned as follows:
Operations 5 (including two expatriates), Planning and Development 4, Finance
and Accounts 5, and Internal Audit 2.
2.14      Staff Development.  TIB runs a very well organized staff development
program which has enabled it to upgrade the levels of skill of most of its
professional staff and to man all its key middle-level management positions
by internal promotions. The program involves a one-year in-house training
followed by one year's training in project appraisal at the local Institute
of Finance Management. Thereafter the staff spends another year at TIB
and finally is sent abroad to one of the recognized training institutes in
Massachusetts or the Hague.
Procedures
2.15      Operations.  Over the years TIB has evolved adequate procedures
covering all aspects of its operations. It has an Operations Manual which
provides guidelines for appraisal and supervision of projects. TIB's
appraisal of projects is thorough. In recent months TIB has improved the
quality of its project supervision by strenghthening its staff and by paying
special attention to its problem projects. It is in the process of tightening
its pre-disbursement conditions to ensure that the project sponsors (mostly
parastatals) are in a stage of readiness to implement projects before dis-
bursements are made.
2.16      Procurement and Disbursement.  TIB requires competitive quotations
for all procurements involving T Shs 100,000 or more. It also insists on
consultations prior to awarding contracts for goods and services to be financed
by TIB. Both procurement and disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
2.17      Legal.  TIB is required to use the services offered by the Tanzania
Legal Corporation, owned by the Government. The Corporation provides legal
services timely and adequately. TIB's loan agreement is also satisfactory.
2.18      Audit.  TIB's accounts are required by statute to be audited by the
Tanzania Audit Corporation which is a parastatal agency. The audit of TIB's
accounts continues to be satisfactorily conducted.
Investment and Financial Policies
2.19      The following are the important provisions in TIB's Statement
of Investment and Financial Policy which has remained unchanged since its
approval by the Bank at the time of first TIB appraisal in 1974:



- 14 -
(a)  TIB will only finance projects which are technically and finan-
cially viable, economically justified, and which are consistent
with national priorities as set out in the national development:
plans.
(b)  TIB's minimum commitment is set at T Shs 100,000 (US$12,000).  The
maximum financial commitment in any project is set at 75% of the
project's total capital cost sC) long as it does not exceed 20% vf
TIB's net wcrth. (TIB's net worth as of December 31, 1978 was
T Shs 530 million). In addition, TIB's total commitments in eqaity
investments should not exceed its own net worth.
(c) TIB should under no circumstances assume the exchange risk on i:c
foreign borrowings.
2.20      TIB's policy statement has not set any limit on its borrowing
capacity. However, in our loan agreements with TIB we have set a debt-eqllity
limit of 3:1.
Interest Rate and Other Charges
2.21       It is TIB's policy to charge an interest rate which substantially
reflects the cost of capital in Tanzania. Its policy statement has set
this rate at a minimum of 10% per annum.  The general aim of TIE's financ>al
policy is, inter alia, to maintain the value of its capital and to achievl:} a
profit margin which would enable it to cover its administrative costs, build
up adequate provisions and reserves and remunerate its share capital.  FoI1Dw-
ing these policy guidelines, TIB increased its lending rate three years ag-o
to 11% for all its ordinary operations.  Recently TIB has even charged 12: Dn
some of its loans to the private sector.  TIB also charges a flat 1% comm:s,ion
on the loan amount and another 1% on the u-ndisbursed commitments. Furthel:mjre,
since TIB passes on the exchange risk on its foreign borrowings to the
sub-borrowers, the effective rate on its loans is somewhat higher than 11i'.
2.22      TIB's rates are among the highest on medium- and long-term loans -o
productive sectors in Tanzania (See Annex 2).  Although these rates were Uo:
positive during the last three years, given Tanzania's inflation rate which
ranged between 14.5% and 16.2% during 1975-[977, they were considered by the
Bank Group to be adequate because (i) they provided an adequate spread to TFB,
(ii) the effective cost of capital to the ultimate borrowers (including the
unquantified exchange risk) was reasonable, (iii) other development banks were
charging similar rates on medium/long-term loans, and (iv) there were indica-
tions of a substantial decrease in the inflation rate in the foreseeable
future.  According to present estimates, the domestic inflation :-ate, measnred
by the GDP deflator, during 1979-1981 is projected to be 12%, 10% and 9% 1,
respectively.  Furthermore, since about 70% of TIB's operations are in foraign
currency and as TIB passes on the foreign exchange risk to the ultimate
borrower, TIB's interest rates, given the projected international inflatic.i
rates of 7% to 6% for 1978-81, are considered positive.
1/   The increase in the consumer price index for 1978 is estimat:ed to be L2%.
Estimates for the GDP deflator are not available.



- 15 -
2.23      The Bank of Tanzania (the Central Bank), as part of a general
directive, asked the Tanzanian banking institutions to modify their interest
rates effective from July 1, 1978, in accordance with a schedule prepared by
it (Annex 2). However, as this directive specifies that sub-loans out of
foreign lines of credit would be governed by the terms and conditions of the
credits, it was agreed at the negotiations that TIB will charge 11% on all
sub-loans out of the proposed loan of $25 million and the EEC Special Action
Credit of $15 million. In accordance with its policy, TIB will continue to
pass on exchange risk on all these sub-loans to the ultimate borrowers. An
understanding was also reached with the Tanzanian delegation that TIB's
interest rate structure will be determined by the relevant authorities in
Tanzania in consultation with TIB and that the latter's analysis will continue
to be based on the principles laid down in its policy statement. As in the
past, TIB will review this analysis with the Bank's supervision missions.
B.   Operations and Finance
Operations
2.24      Annex 3 provides a summary of TIB's operations through March 31,
1979. As of that date TIB had approved, net of cancellations, 137 loans
aggregating T Shs 1,119.5 million. It had also approved net equity invest-
ments of T Shs 64 million in 13 enterprises, including an equity investment
of T Shs 30 million and income notes of T Shs 20 million in TDFL, another
development finance company. Considering the volume of its operations, TIB's
level of equity investments is low reflecting its major involvement with
financing parastatal enterprises which are provided with equity funds from
the Treasury and the decision not to tie up sizeable amounts in investments
which are difficult to turn over. The level of TIB's loan approvals has
increased rapidly from 9 loans for T Shs 29 million in FY 1972 to 23 loans
for T Shs 285 million in FY 1978.  The real rate of growth of TIB approvals
averaged 26% during 1972-1976 after which it showed a dramatic increase of
85% per annum in FY 1977.. However, it levelled off in FY 1978.  The growth
of commitments and disbursements has also kept pace with approvals.  As of
March 31, 1979, about 73% of TIB's net approvals by amount and 91% by number
had been committed and over 70% of the committed amount had been disbursed.
Due to streamlining of TIB's loan administration procedures, the pace of
commitments and disbursements has improved significantly in recent months.
2.25      An analysis of TIB's loan operations by size, terms and sub-sector
is shown in Annex 4.   A majority of the loans (54% in number) is for T Shs 5
million or less, but 32 loans (23% in number) for over T Shs 10 million each
account for about 65% of the loan approvals by amount. The average size of
the loan has increased from T Shs 6.2 million in FY 1977 to T Shs 8.2 million
and the median size is around T Shs 5.8 million. About 67% of the loans by
number (66% by amount) have maturities between 5 and 10 years. Over 71% of
the loan amount carries interest at 11% and above; the mean interest is 10.7%.
TIB's operations are spread out over a wide variety of sectors, with manufac-
turing and agricultural processing accounting for 70% of the loan amounts,



- 16 -
tourism 7%, engineerirng 7%, transport and storage 6% and forest and wood
industries 3%. Other sectors which have also benefited from TIB financinig
are fish processing, miining, construction, power and communications.  Because
of the lack of adequate infrastructure in many parts of the country, TIB's
projects are mostly located in urban areas, the largest concentration being
in Dar es Salaam and its vicinity.
Portfolio
2.26      As of December 31, 1978, TIB had a loan portfolio of T Shs 476 uil-
lion outstanding in 81 projects, owned mostly by parastatal organizations.
(This is a substantial increase over the portfolio of T Shs 298 million oIt-
standing in 58 projects as of June 30, 1977.) A breakdown of the loan po--t-
folio according to the status of the projects, and arrears is provided beLcw:
Portfolio              Arrears over Three Months
Total Affected                    Interes': and
Principal   by Arrears over                    Commitnent
Outstanding   Three Months       Principal        Charles
Number Amount  Number Amount   Number Amount  Number laount
(Amount in T Sh million)
Operating Projects
Serioujs Problems    5      23.0       5    23.0        5     7.6      5      6.8
Moderate Problems   5       33.0       5    33.0        5     9.3       5    14.6
Other Projects      40     234.6      16    40.7       15     9.6      11     __7
SubtotaL         50      290.6     26    96.7       25    26.5      21    25.1
Projects Under
Implementation
On Schedule         14      71.2       -     -          -      -               - -
Behind Schedule    17      114.2       6    38.7        4     3.2      6       .7
Subtotal.        31      185.4      6    38.7        4      3.2      6      1-7
TOTAL          81      476.0     32   135.4       29    29.7      27    ?J'.8
2.27      As of December 31, 1978, about 28% of TIB's loan portfolio was
afferted by arrears of over three months. (This is an improvement over
the position in June 1977 when this percentage was 39.)   Of the 50 operat-
ing projects, 40 involving about 81% of the portfolio outstanding in these
projects were making satisfactory progress and 10 were experiencing moderai:e
to serious problems. However, the size of the arrear-affected portfolio does
not reflect the quality of TIB's loans because 30% of the portfolio affect!d
by arrears was in projects which were experiencing temporary problems and 18%
was in projects under implementation which were behind schedule for reason:
beyond the borrowers' control. The overall quality of TIB's portfolio is
satisfactory.



- 17 -
2.28      TIB's experience with project implementation by parastatals has
not been satisfactory. Of the 31 projects under implementation, 17 (mostly
sponsored by parastatals) were behind schedule due to delays in starting
civil construction and in ordering machinery and equipment. Although in
some cases the delays are due to factors beyond the control of the sponsors,
in many cases they are due to parastatals' inadequate project management
capabilities. In order to improve the situation TIB has taken certain actions
in recent months which, in due course, should go a long way towards more
efficient project implementation. It organized a seminar of TIB clients
including key officials from the concerned parastatals to explain to them
TIB's objectives, policies and procedures; this seminar resulted in a better
appreciation by the clients of TIB's requirements. It has also tightened
pre-disbursement conditions with a view to ensuring that appropriate project
planning and management expertise is available before TIB disburses funds.
Consultations with the clients (mostly parastatals) have also become more
frequent with the result that actions on problems are taken more rapidly than
in the past.
2.29      TIB's improved project supervision capabilities and intensive
follow-up of chronic problem projects have yielded good results. Of the six
projects which had been identified as chronic problem projects in 1977 at the
last appraisal, one is already profitable and three have shown marked improve-
ments in their operating results. As regards the remaining two, the loan to
one of them is being taken over by the Government whereas the sixth project is
still having serious problems arising out of originally poor project conception
and design. During the last year five other projects, four involving fishing
operations and a motel, were categorized as problem projects. Since all the
problem projects are owned by parastatals or the District Development Corpora-
tions, there are fair prospects of TIB recovering its dues although salvaging
of these projects may take a little time. Meanwhile, based on an annual
review of the recovery prospects of its dues, TIB increased its provisions
against doubtful debts from T Shs 5 million to T Shs 7 million, which is
considered adequate.
2.30      As of December 31, 1978, TIB's equity portfolio amounted to T Shs
37.8 million, of which T Shs 12.8 million was in common shares of 5 companies
and T Shs 25 million in preferred shares of 9 companies. About 77% (T Shs 10
million in common shares and T Shs 20 million in income notes) was outstanding
in the Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited, another development
bank in Tanzania where TIB's investment represents the Tanzanian participation
(30%) in that institution which is owned 70% by foreign institutions. 1/
While TIB has been receiving interest on its income notes and preference
shares, it has so far not received dividends on its investments in ordinary
shares (except very small amounts from TDFL) partly due to the poor financial
performance of some of the companies and partly to the fact that some of
the projects are still under implementation. TIB has also made a provision
of T Shs 1.2 million against possible losses on equity investments; this
is considered adequate.
1/   TDFL is owned 70% by:  DEG (30%) , FMO (30%) and CDC (10%).



- 183 -
Resources
2.31      TIB has been quite successful in mobilizing resources from a r.unber
of foreign countries; the main donors are SIDA, NORAD, CIDA, KfW, Goverr'nents
of Finland and Netherlands, ADB, IDA andl the Bank. As of Apri:L 30, 1979, TIB's
foreign resources amounted to the equivalent of T Shs 972 million. SIDA, which
traditionally has been the largest donor, had provided T Shs 367 million (38%),
the World Bank Group T Shs 276 million (28%) 1/, NORAD  T Shs 149 millioi
(15%), KfW T Shs 97 million (10%), and others (ADB, CIDA, Netherlands an,1
Finland) the remaining T Shs 83 million. With the exception of the crediLt
lines from the Bank Group and ADB, which were made available at: rates be :een
7.25% and 8.5%, TIB's foreign currency resources are on soft terms (repa7able
over long--terms and interest from 0.75% per annum to 4% per annum). TIB s
local    currency resources amounted to T Shs 198 million, of which T Sh; 148
million represented TIB's capital and reserves, T Shs 40 millicn treasurr and
special funds and T Shas 10 million depreciation and provisions.
Financial Situation
2.32      TIB's audit(ed balance sheets for the years ending June 30, 197i1
1978 reflect rapid growth in its operations. Despite this growth, TIB's
financial situation has remained very sound. Its long-term assets, cons-.s:ing
mainly of portfolio investments, have more than tripled during this pericd,
from T Shs 124 million as of June 30, 19,74 to T Shs 404 million as of Junie 30,
1978.  This increase has been financed mainly out of grants from SIDA ancl
NORAD and long-term foreign loans from a number of bilateral and multilater:al
donors, including the World Bank Group. The grants have contri1uted to a.
remarkable increase in TIB's net worth from T Shs 78 million at the end cf
June 1974 to T Shs 466, million as of June 30, 1978. TIB's long--term debt
equity ratio which was already sound at 1.0 in 1974, further improved to ).4
by end FY 1978. TIB has all along maintained a sound liquidity position,
its net current assets improving from T Shs 30 million in 1974 to T Shs 25E
million in 1978. The bulk of the current assets (T Shs 259 million as of June
30, 1978) was in cash and short-term investments.
2.33      As of June 30, 1978 TIB had provided T Shs 8.4 million for doub:ful
debts and investments (T Shs 7.2 million for debts and T Shs 1.2. million :cr
equity investments) based on an annual review of the status of projects il
difficulties.  This represents 2.2% of the total outstanding portfolio, c:m-
pared to a level of provisions of 0.5% at the end of 1975 and 1.7% at the end
of 1977. A review of TIB's statement of provisions for losses indicates t:hat
the level of provisions is adequate.
1/   Reflecting an increase in the proportion of foreign currency resourc's
provided by the Bank Group which amounted to 23%, as of June 30, 197.



- 19 -
Financial Results
2.34      Annex 5 shows TIB's audited income statements for FY 1974 through
FY 1978 and Annex 7 shows selected financial ratios. While TIB has progres-
sively increased its spread on borrowed funds from 4.4% in 1974 to 5.4% in
1978 and has been able to hold down its administrative expenses at an aver-
age 1.5% of the average total assets during the last four years, its profit-
ability during this period has remained modest at around 3% of average net
worth because of the remarkable expansion of its equity base. This level of
profitability has not been adequate for TIB to consider declaring dividends.
Furthermore, TIB is prevented by its statute from declaring dividends unless
its retained earnings grow to half the size of its authorized capital, which
is presently T Shs 200 million. However, being a Government-owned insti-
tution, failure to declare dividends has not come in its way to mobilize
resources.
C.   Economic Impact
2.35      An assessment of the actual economic impact of projects financed
so far by TIB has not yet been made but all projects were estimated at the
time of their appraisal to be well justified. The projects approved during
the last fifteen months have average forecast financial and economic rates
of return of 20% and 23% respectively. These projects involve a total fixed
investment of about T Shs 1.5 billion and are estimated to create approxi-
mately 9,135 jobs at an average cost per job of about $13,400.
2.36      The improvement in the investment climate in Tanzania during the
last year or so as a result of the pronouncements of the Government leaders
urging the private sector to make investments in small- and medium-sized
industries also led to an increase in applications with TIB from the private
investors for term finance. During FY 1978, 44% of TIB's gross approvals by
number and 33% by amount were made in favour of manufacturing enterprises
which were majority-owned by the private sector. The average size of these
approvals is T Shs 10 million (as compared to TDFL's average loan approval of
T Shs 2 million). TIB approved T Shs 106.4 million in loans and T Shs 4.5
million in equity investments in these enterprises helping mobilize another
T Shs 87 million from the private investors in these projects.
2.37      Performance under Previous Credits/Loans.  The Bank Group has so
far provided three lines of credit to TIB aggregating $36 million for its
lending and investment operations, of which about $33 million was committed
as of June 15, 1979. The first two lines of credit are fully committed and
the third is committed to the order of $12 million. The first IDA credit
of $6 million is likely to be fully disbursed by the end of December 1979.
Under these lines of credit TIB has so far financed 26 sub-projects involving
manufacture of textiles, garments, soap, cement, plastics, glassware, car
spares, aluminium, soft drinks, tanning, processing of navy beans, cashew nuts
and oilseeds, hotels and transportation. On completion, these sub-projects
are estimated to create 9,500 new jobs at an investment cost of $14,000 per
job. Their average forecast financial and economic rates of return are 21%



- 20 -
and 31% respectively. Eight of these projects have been completed and, vith
one exception, are operating satisfactorily.  Our experience with TIB reRe.rd-
ing commitments and disbursements under these credit lines has been very
satisfactory.
D.   Prospects
2.38      Tanzania's Third Five-Year Development Plan (1976-1981) involvis
an investmnent outlay of T Shs 21 billion, of which T Shs 5.1 billion (249')
is earmarked for the industrial sector. TIB's financing has historicall'
constituted about 20% of the outlay, but it is now contemplating to incrl-ase
its share of financing to 25% of the proposed investment in the industriLl
sector.
TIB's Strategy
2.39      In formulating its strategy for the medium term, TIB has follov;e1
the priorities and the guidelines in Tanzania's Third Five-Year Developmen:
Plan (1976-1981). TIB's strategy is as i-ollows:
(i) to increase its share of financing the industrial sector
from the historical 20% to 25% of the planned investment,
particularly by financing projects recommended in the
Basic Industrial Strategy;
(ii)  to commission capacity-utilization and efficiency-
improvement studies in respect of problem projects
in its portfolio as well as those under the control
of other parastatals.
(iii) to take steps to improve project implementation by
parastatal borrowers by stressing adequate project
preparation and administration capability at the
appraisal stage;
(iv)  to reduce the portfolio's arrears situation by improv-
ing debt collection mechanism as well as by improving
communications with the parastatal clients and the
respective ministries.
(v) to place special emphasis on technical manpower develop-
ment by recruiting technically qualified staff and
training them in appropriate institutions abroad in
diverse disci'plines such as forestry, agriculture and
transportation in addition to conventional training
in business nianagement, finance and economics.
(vi) to mobilize resources from commercial sources abroad
to meet TIB's; growing financial requirements.



- 21 -
We consider the above strategy to be appropriate for TIB, and within its
capability to accomplish. Already TIB has taken certain actions towards
achieving these goals.
Projected Operations
2.40      TIB's existing pipeline of projects, as of March 31, 1979, consisted
of 19 projects needing financing amounting to T Shs 215 million, of which 8
projects needing TShs 37 million are sponsored by private investors. Having
achieved an approval level of T Shs 344 million in FY 1978, TIB is projecting
a modest increase of 2% in FY 1979 and an increase of 15% (over FY 1979 level)
in FY 1980; thereafter a constant level in nominal terms is projected until
FY 1983. In real terms TIB is projecting a growth rate of 6% in FY 1980 and
negative rates for the remaining years. The reason for the latter is that due
to the country-wide shortage of qualified manpower, TIB is uncertain about the
availability of staff with the necessary background. It has therefore decided
to base its operations on a conservative basis. Annex 8 shows TIB's projected
operations through FY 1983. During this period the approvals are projected to
amount to T Shs 1.95 billion, of which T Shs 1.94 billion will be in loans and
T Shs 10 million in equity investments. This is in line with TIB's policy to
have a low exposure in equity investments, as prospects of turning them over
are virtually non-existent. Some 70% of loans approved would be in foreign
exchange and all equity investments in local currency. Commitments during this
period are projected to exceed T Shs 2 billion and disbursements T Shs 1.7
billion. These targets are reasonable in the light of the country's invest-
ment plans and TIB's administrative capability.
Resource Requirements
2.41      In order to finance its projected operations for the period May 1,
1979, through June 30, 1981, TIB will need to raise considerable amounts of
foreign and local currency resources. The projected resource requirements
and financing plan are as follows:
Estimated Commitments
(Amounts in T Shs million)
Local Currency    Foreign Currency
Loans                                          361              703
Equity Investments                               4               -
Total                                     365              703
Financing Plan
Existing Uncommitted Resources
(as of April 30, 1979)                              7              109
Internal Cash Generation (net of debt
repayments)                                       244
New Resources                                         -               110
TOTAL                                          251              219
Resource Surplus (Gap)                              (114)            (484)



- 22 -
2.42      TIB proposes to finance its foreign currency needs (about $58
million) by borrowings from its conventional donors as well as by tappin.;
new commercial sources for which it is beirig encouraged by the Tanzanian
Government.  TIB has been assured of foreign resources equivalent of T Sls
110 million from (a) NORAD (T Shs 42 mil:Lion), (b) CIDA (T Shs 28 millior)
and (c) the Nordic Investment Bank (TShs 40 million) during the projectiR:n
period.  In its efforts to further diversify its sources of foreign currency
funds, TIB is planning to contact ADB, ABEDIA, the OPEC Special Fund, the
Saudi Fund and some European commercial banks. TIB's prospects in this regard
appear good.  The size of the operation proposed in this appraisal, a Bar.k
loan of $25 million and an EEC Special Action Credit of $15 mil:Lion (for -;hich
IDA is the administrator), reflects a good pipeline of projects with TIB arLd
its institutional capability to handle large resources.  These resources -7ill
together cover about 47% of TIB's projected foreign currency conmitments.
2.43      TIB's projected local currency resource gap on a commitment bas-is
is quite large (T Shs 114 million) altlhough on a disbursement basis it would
still have substantial liquid resources. At the negotiations, both the
Government and TIB confirmed that the latter could establish credit lines
with the Bank of Tanzania to cover its local currency needs. The BOT charter
was amended some time ago to enable it to provide credit lines to locally
established development financing institutions.
Financial Prospects
2.44      TIB's projected financial statements and ratios for 1979-1983 are
shown in Annexes 7, 9, 10 and 11. TIB's return on average net worth is
projected to improve from 3.6% to 5.6% by the end of 1983. Although modest,
it would enable TIB to maintain to some extent, the value of its equity.
Since TIB retains all its after-tax profits, TIB's reserves are likely to
exceed T Shs 100 million in 1981 which would entitle it thereafter to declare
dividends, if the shareholders so desired. 1/  TIB's administrative expenses
are expected to stay below.1% of average total assets during the period of
projections. As TIB resorts to increased borrowings from more expensive
sources, its financial expenses as a percentage of average total assets
increase from 1.9% in 1978 to 2.8% in 1983. The cost of debt as a percentage
of average total debts also increases from. 6.1% to 6.3% and although incomle
from loans increases from the average 9.7% during the last five years to alout
11.3% during the projection period, the interest spread progressively decl:.nes
from 5.4% in 1978 to 4.8% in 1983.  While TIB expects to receive interest :n
TDFL's income notes and other preference shares, it has not projected any
dividend income as the few companies in which it has made equity investmeni:s
have not had a dividend payment record in the past. TIB's debt service
coverage remains very satisfactory throughout the period improving from 2.,i
times in 1979 to 4 times in 1983. This provides adequate cushion against i.ny
unforeseen shortfalls in collections.
1/   TIB's statute requires that its reserves should be at least 50% of
its authorized capital before it can declaEre dividends.



- 23 -
2.45      TIB's long-term debt-to-equity ratio which has been around 0.5 since
1976, is projected to stay below 1 even by 1983. This is due to a massive
build-up of its equity base by grants from SIDA and NORAD and a satisfactory
growth of its profitability. TIB's liquidity is also expected to remain very
sound because its donors, mainly SIDA and NORAD, advance funds to TIB well in
advance of disbursements to projects resulting in accretions of substantial
cash and short-term investments. Although these items decrease gradually over
*        the projection period, they are still expected to result in a current ratio
exceeding 2 by 1983. TIB is projecting to make provisions against doubtful
debts and investments at 3% of annual disbursements which would increase their
level to over 3% of TIB's loan and equity portfolio from 1981 onwards.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The main objective of the project is to provide TIB with a part
of its foreign currency requirements for investments in projects in various
productive sectors of the economy. TIB is probably the most important develop-
ment financing institution in Tanzania. Under the dynamic leadership of its
management and with assistance from the Bank Group and other donors, it has
developed into a mature institution pursuing sound financial and investment
policies. Apart from expanding its volume of operations, TIB is also having
a qualitative impact on implementation of projects by parastatals and their
performance. The Bank's continued association with TIB will enable the Bank
to influence the channelling of funds into financially sound and economically
viable projects and to the improvement of their overall performance.
Description of the Project
3.02      The project involves a fourth credit line from the Bank Group of
$25 million and an EEC Special Action Credit of $15 million in favour of TIB
to be used by it for meeting a part of its foreign resource gap in making
investments in projects in the various productive sectors of the economy, in
accordance with the provisions of its charter.
3.03      Terms and Conditions.  The Bank loan will be on the Bank's usual
terms and conditions for a loan to a DFC. Interest would be charged at the
appropriate rate and commitment fee at 3/4 of 1% on the undisbursed amount
of the loan. The loan will be for a maximum period of 15 years including
an appropriate grace period, with a flexible amortization schedule conform-
ing substantially to the aggregate amortization schedules of the sub-loans
financed under the loan. In view of the continuing improvement in the quality
of its appraisals, it is recommended that its free limit for approval of
individual sub-projects be increased from the present $800,000 to $1 million
with an aggregate free limit of $8 million. This would still enable the Bank
to review sub-projects involving more than 2/3 of the amount of the loan.
The foreign exchange risk on the sub-loans would be assumed by the ultimate
beneficiaries. It is expected that the sub-loans will be made by TIB at its
present interest rate of 11% or higher.



- 24 -
3.04      The EEC Special Action Credit will be made available to the Tanzanian
Government on IDA terms for on-lending to TIB on the terms and conditions
spelled ouit in paragraph 3.03 with two exceptions: (a) procurement will be
limited to countries mentioned in paragraph 3.07 below and (b) the aggre,;ate
free limit under this credit will be $5 million.
Project Implementation
3.05      TIB would have the sole responsibility for the implementation cf
the project.  Requests for withdrawals would be made for financing free .imit
sub-projec:ts approved by TIB or sub-projects approved by the Ba-nk. TIB's
record of implementation of projects in the past three credit lines has been
very satisfactory.
3.06      Reporting Requirements.  The Bank has established with TIB an
adequate system of reporting progress of operations, the status of the port-
folio and financial condition.  TIB's submissions in this regard have beea
very regular, thorough and comprehensive, reflecting the existence of an
efficient management information system.
3.07      Procurement.  Procurement for the sub-projects finance!d under
the Loan and the EEC Special Action Credit would be in accordance with the
standard DFC practices. With respect to the latter, procurement will be
permissible only from the member countries of EEC and from developing cou:i-
tries which are members of IDA and which could themselves be the recipients
of a Special Action Credit (paragraph 2.16).
3.08      I)isbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan and the
Special Action Credit would finance 100% of the foreign cost of imported  ioods
and services, 60% of the local cost for goods previously imported and 40% of
the total cost for civ.l works.
Benefits arLd Risks
3.09      Economic Justification.  TIB is planning to enhance its role in
the               financing of the industrial and other productive sectors
during the Third Five-Year Development Plan.  Having built up a sound orgaliza-
tion with adequate policies and procedures, TIB is in a position to alloca-E
resources to financially sound and economically viable projects. Since TI3,
through its improved project supervision procedures, is able to (i) monito-
the progress of project implementation by its borrowers more closely than
before and (ii) assist in identifying causes of low capacity utilization, :.ts
impact on project implementation by parastatals which are TIB's major clie its,
and on improvement of their operational efficiency is likely to be substantial:
financial assistance to TIB will, therefore, result in an efficient allocaiAon
of resources and improved performance by the industrial sector in Tanzania,
Through its increasing involvement with the financing of private enterpris:s
in recent months, TIB is also likely to play a significant role in mobilizctLon
of private savings in the country.



- 25 -
3.10      Risks.  There are no major risks associated with this project.  TIB
is a mature and creditworthy development financing institution, having the
support of the Government and a number of bilateral and multilateral financing
institutions, performing a well-charted role within the framework of the
country's development plan. The only risk is that it may not be able to
mobilize in time all the needed foreign resources, on acceptable terms and
conditions, to meet its operational targets. This could somewhat reduce
TIB's level of operations and projected profitability in the near future.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      This report recommends a Bank loan of $25 million and an EEC Special
Action credit of $15 million in favour of TIB on the terms and conditions
specified in paragraphs 3.03 and 3.04 respectively.
4.02      During negotiations the following agreements and understandings
were reached:
(a) it was agreed that TIB will charge an interest rate
of 11% per annum on all sub-loans made out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan or the EEC Special Action
credit (paragraph 2.23);
(b) an understanding was reached with the Tanzania delegation
that, as in the past, TIB would continue to review its
analysis of the interest rate structure with the Bank's
supervision missions (paragraph 2.23); and
(c) an understanding was reached with the Government and TIB
that the latter could mobilize local currency resources
through facilities provided by the Bank of Tanzania
(paragraph 2.43).



ANNEX ;L
- 26 -
TANZANIA
Structure of Output and Employment in -qedium- and Large-Scale Manufas>. g
In Tanzania 1972-1976
Absolute Amount (in current terms)
(Shs LH1llion)             Share Total (,_
I.  Output                           1972      1974     1976      1972      1974     197'
Consumer Goods                  1.533.1  2.044.9  2.639.4   61.3       53.0      50.3
Food Proces-ing                752.9    925.5   1,057.6   30.1       24.0      20.2
Beverages                      128.7    178.6      277.5    5.1        4.6      5.3
Tobacco K-nufacturing          1.07.6    162.4     232.4    4.3        4.2      4.4
M1anufacture of Textiles       429.9    599.9      816.1   17.2      15.6      15.6
Manufacture of Footwear
and Other Apparel           114.0    178.5       255.8    4.6       4.6       4.8
Intermediate Goods               711.4   1,406.9  2,026.7   28.4        36.5     38.6
Wood (except furniture)         49.3     63.9       93.2    1.9        1.6      1.7
Furniture & Fixtures            22.8     28.6       34.4    0.9       0.7       0.,
Paper Products, Printing
and Publishing                77.3    173.9      239.1    3.1       4.5       4.6
Leather Products                29.6     48.5       61.8    1.2        1.3      1.2
Rubber Products                 65.3    141.1      189.3    2.6       3.7       3.6
Chemicals, Chemical
Products, Petroleum         230.0    519.9       773.9    9.2      13.5      .4.7
Non-metallic Mi.neral
Products                     61.6      92.6      119.8    2.5       2.4       2.3
Basic Metals, & Metal
Products                    175.5    338.4       515.2    7.0       8.8       9.8
Capital Goods                    187.8    296.0      428.5    7.5       7.7       8.2
Manufacture & Repair of
of Machinery                  72.2    102.5      169.0    2.9       2.7       3.2
Assembly & Repairs.of
Transport Equipment         115.6    192.5       259.5    4.6-      5.0       5.0
Other Manufacturing               70.1.   108.7      151.6    2.8       2.8       2.9
TOTAL          .2,52.5  3o56.5   5 246.2  100.0    100.0    ICO.0
II.. Employment
Number (in 000's)            Shar,- Total (Z)
Consumer Goods                 44.7      48.7       52.4   71.1      69.3      69.4
Intermediate Goods             14.6      17.,2      18.5   23.2      24.5      24.5
Capital Goods                   2.3       3.1        3.3    3.6       4.4       4.4
Other Manufacturing              1.3      1.3        1.3    2.1       1.8       1.7
TOTAL                        62.9      70.3       75.5  1;00.0    10'0.0    .03.0
Source: covernment of Tanzania Economric Surveys: 1975-76.and 1977-78
1/ Enterprises with 10 or more employees
2/ Provisional
EAPID
June 1979



ANNEX 2
- 2;7 -
TAN ZANIA
Intere.st R_ate_Structure ims T_nziIl ia
1976            1977           July 19h7
1. Bank of Tanzania
Rediscosuts _and Addvances
Cormecrci al Bills
Crop:    90 days                        5.00            5.00               5.00
91 - 180 days                 5.00            5.50               5.50
Other:   90 days                     5.25-6.00       5.25-6.00         5.25-6.00
91 - 180 days              5.75-6.50       5.75-6.50         5.75-6.50
Treasury Bills (35 days)
Rcdiscoants                             4.27            4.27               4.27
Advances                                 4.77            4.77              4.77
2.  National Bank of Commerce
Deposits
Sa in_s                                  4.00            4.00              5.00
Fixed
up to 91 days                           -             3.50               3.50
3 - 6 months                          4.00            4.00              4.00
6 - 9 months                          4.25            4.25              4.25
9 - 12 months                         4.50            4.50              4.50
1 - 2 years                           5.00            5.00              6.00
2 - 3 years                             -               -               6.50
3 years and above                       -               _               7.00
Lending                                6.00-10.50    6.50-10.50           7.5-11.50
3.  Post Office Svings Bank
Deposits
_Sv3n                                    4.00            4.00              5.00
Fixed
1 - 2 years                             -               -               6.00
2 - 3 years                             -               -               6.50
3 years and above                       _               _                7.00
4.  Tanzania_ousing Bank
Deposits
Savings                                  4.50           4.50               5.00
Deposit Accou2t                          5.50            5.50              5.50
Fixed
1 - 2 years                           5.50            6.00              6.00
2 - 3 years                           5.50            6.50               6. S
3 years and up                          -               -                7.00
Lending                              5.00-10.00      5.00-10.00        5.00-11.00
5.  Tanzania Rural DeveLopment Bank
Short Term Lending                         8.50            8.50              7.50 -/
Long Tertm Lending                         7.50            7.50              7.50 -
6.  Tanzania Investment Bank                    j0.00         10.00-11.00       7.5-12.00V
7.  Past African Development Bank               10.00           11.00              11.00
8.  _nganYika Development Finance Co.Ltd  9.00-9.50   10.00-11.50              11.00-12.00
1/ The July 1978 rates were mandated by the Bank of lanzania, and are the
subject of dispute between it and TRDB and TIB.
2/ The rates set by the Bank of Tanzania are as follows:
SSI (rural)                                                 7.50
SSI (urban)                                                 8.00
Commercial Farms and Agrobusiness                           9.00
Plantations, Medium- and Large-Scale Industries            10.00
However, TIB is still continuing to charge 11.0% to 12.0% on its loans.
EAPID
June 1979



TANZANIA IN9F.SIHIT BANK
Sou.ourv o          i pperotlaus  1971 - 131 8
(A,mo...ts ie T Sh. millio-s)
NI77e mouthsn
'Ce   979  u1~                          1975       -              ..1(........                          1977     -                     1978                                                      C,miulstlve            Of which ~r1976l19r7r1oas
eh,e  N0mh er L                 ouqnt         Nisehit       hount            Number        hnoLer Ntumber                   M ouser          lumber        Annuo            Number  978       cut          NUmber        lemoume          Number C  lAmo_             0   Ibmimt           mL_-t-
I.oales                      33           95.0              25           97.1              22          128.5                20         151.4              23           109.5              26          339.7              22          211.b-/           171          1 335.0              13           5,
EqlIty                        _1           _1.6               4            7.2               2            _.                  3           10.6              4             5.8              4             4.5               L                            .32  _2t         33.4              -
Tot-S                       i6           96.6              29          004.3              24          129.2               23          164.4              27          315.3              30          344.2              23          215.3              192          1,316.39            1             52.11
co-et lin- -
I os                          18           54.9              10           54.3              31          131.4               17          120.8               6           43.1              16          226.8               6            53.2             104            684.5               5           47.6
IquIty                         3            1.6               3            5.2               2            0.7                3           10.6               4             3.8              3            2.0                1            2.5              19              26.4              -           _
Total                       21           56.5              13           59.5              33          132.1               20          131.4              10           46.9              19          228.8               7           55.7             123             710.9               5          41.6
tLuber-eumeers 
torusl            .           .            18.7             ...           39.0             .. .          70.3                            77.6             ...          142.1              ...          92.6               ...          70.1             ...            510.4               5           33.4
:quiLy                                      1.8             ..             4-8             ...                                            0.5                            !.7              ..            5.1i                            -               _               13.9               -                      7
'ril                       ...            20.5            ...          43.8             ...           70.3              ,             78.1             ..    ,      143.8              ...          97.7               . ..         70.1             ...             524.3              5           33.4
l.oos                          9            9.8               3            8.5              -            _                   2           13.1               3           71.5               3           55.2               1             5.4             21             163.5               -
Eqo,ity                      __                                            -  _                         .  . .               2           12.4              _             _                 3            7.o0'             -             ,                 5             19.4
Total                        9            9.8               3            8.5              -            -                  4           25.5               3           71.5               6           62.2                1            5.4              26             182.9
I/   ee l ode  'I She 50 mil Ifl-o Be ZMFI. oAhree end ime-ue mutes, af chicl1 T Shs    millio'    ha-e bhe-  paid  in.
l- eldos T  sh. 3.5 mill,Ion  Ie Mttbwa S,gut -m-ers ele-db core  edseeed, sAd T She t.5 mtlli-m 1s Twee--mic ToLra Limited Ahble   ete.t c--eerted  lure a 1eam.
3/  -orloleo  lIS- 1).7 mi-ii l                                           pp- -,tlooel (loate Ce lasts uypreied be  ,-eoIus year.



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Analysis of Loans Approved- as of  Mrrch 31.  1979
(Amounts in T Shs thousands)
Number                     Amount
A.  Size
Up to T Shs 2.5 million                         48            35          59,304         5
Over T Shs 2.5 up to 5 million                  26            19         101,074         9
Over T Shs 5 up to 7.5 million                  20            15         130,728        12
Over T Shs 7.5 up to 10 million                 11             8          96,358         9
Over T Shs 10 million                           32            23         732,043       65
Total                                      137            100       1,119,507       100
Mean Size:  T Shs 8.2 million;  Median Size:  T Shs 5.8 million
B. Maturity
Up to 5 years                                   20            15          54,652          5
5.1 - 7 years                                   41            30         198,196         18
7.1 - 10 years                                  51            37         541,832         48
Over 1C years                                   25            18         324,827         29
Total                                      137            100       1,119,507       100
Mean Maturity: 8.0 years
C.  Interest Rate
7%                                               1             1           7,000          1
8%                                               4             3           6,605          1
8.5%                                            15            11          51,002          5
9%                                              20            15          78,467          7
9.5%                                             3             2           9,500          1
10%                                             29            21         160,856         14
11%                                             61 ,          44         730,157         64
12%                                              4             3,         75,920          7
Total                                      137            100       1,119,507       100
Weighted -/ Mean Interest: 10.7%
Subsector
Manufacturing                                61            45         623,279-        56
Agriculture and Agricultural Processing  20                15         153,917        14
Tourism, and HUtel Develogment        .      14            10          80,745          7
Lng'ac,,ring,,                              10              7          80,705          7
Transport and Storage                         9             7          71,170          6
Fishiing and~ lish Proccssing                 5             2          14,900          1
Fore,st and h4ood Industries                  9             7          34,091          3
nGonstruction                                  3             2          22,500          2
Mining                                        4             3          17,700          2
Power                                         1             1           7,500          1
Co wmuniations                                1             1          13,000          1
137           Ino       l,119,507          00
11 FxcIe-hs>t A'rnc'v tThoratIonn
EAPID
June5t 10170



- 30 -
ANNEX 5
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Income Statements   l/
(Amounts in T Sh '000)                                     :.a1f-yea.r
l:n ing
Year ending June 30                  1974       1975      1976        1977        1978    9 8
RE_ENUE
Short-Term Investment Income        522        855      3,211        3,176       7,776    3,2659
Interest Income and
Commitment Fees
- TIB Portfolio                 3,411     9,594      12,596       23,416      35,975    25,372
- NBC Portfolio                 4,537     3,271       2,853          813         319         79
Comission
on Loans                          -         -         1,087        1,769       2,935       856
Other Income                         15         87         313         191         177        112
Total Revenue                   8,485    13,807      20,060       29,365      47,182    29,688
EXPENSES
Salaries and Other
Personnel Expenses              1,776     1,983       2,076        2,663       3,124    1,615
Depreciation                        204        229         221          242        296       141
Other Administrative
Expenses                          975     1,156       3,260        2,694       1,816   :1jS'L5
Total Administrative
Expenses                        2,955     3,368       5,557        5,599       5,236    2,901
Interest and Commitment
Charges                         3,244     3,052       4,876        6,729      11,109     7,147
Provisions                          286        884      1,322        2,638       32          -
Total Expenses                  6,485     7,304      11,755       14,966      19,647    10,000
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES             2,000      6,503      8,305       14,399      27,535   19,640
Income Taxes                          834      2,979      3,788        7,289      13,840    9,820
NET PROFIT                          1166      3 523      4,517        7_110      13,695     8.820
EAPID
qJun  1979
1/ Exclude income from agency operations



ANNEX 6
- 31 -
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Balance Sheets 1974 - 1978
(Amounts in T Sh Million)
As of
As of June 30                         1974      1975    1976a/ 1977a/              197         Dec.31
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Deposits and Short-term
Investments                      23.4       66.8    75.3          114.8       259.0        253.5
Advances, Prepayments and
Other                             0.2        1.0      1.6           3.2         4.7          7.8
Receivables                         3.7       11.6    19.5           24.1        27.3         33.4
Special Deposit with NBC            4.5        0.1      -             1.7         1.7          1.6
Total Current Assets               32.0       79.5    96.4          143.8       292.7        296.3
Long-Term Assets
TIB - Loans                        54.2      122.2   186.3          300.7       376.4        476.48
Equity Investments                  6.4        6.4      6.9           7.6         7.8         (8.
Less: Provisions for Losses        (0.3)      (1.2)   (2.5)          (5.1)       (8.4)         8
Investment in TDFL                                                                            10.0
Shares                           10.0       10.0    10.0           10.0        10.0         1
Income Notes                      5.0        7.9      7.9           9.0        15.0         20.0
NBC Portfolio                      46.6       38.1    29.4            6.1         1.3          1.2
Fixed Assets (Net)                  1.9        2.2      2.2           2.1         2.1          2.5
Total Long-Term Assets          123.       185.6   240.2          330.4       404.2        509.5
Total Assets                        155.9      265.1   336.6          474.2       696.9        805.8
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                    1.2        2.0      5.9           4.9        10.9          5.1
Tax Payable                         0.8        3.1      3.9           7.3        13.8         10.0
Total Current Liabilities         2.0        5.1      9.8          12.2        24.7         15.1
Long-Term Liabilities
NBC                                46.6       38.1    29.4            6.1         1.3          1.2
Foreign and Other Borrowings       29.2       62.9    90.5          153.5       204.7         259.1
Total Long-Term Liabilities    75.8        101.0   119.9          159.6       206.0         260.3
Net Worth
Paid-in Capital                    50.0       70.0    92.7          100.0       100.0         100.0
Retained earnings                   4.3        7.9    12.4           19.6        33.2          43.3
Grants                             23.7       81.1   101.8          182.8       333.0         387.1
Total Net Worth                  78.0      159.0   206.9          302.4       466.2         530,4
Total Liabilities and Net Worth   155.9        265.1  =336.6          474.2       696.9         iua
a/  Includes only operations on which TIB bears the risk.
EAPID
June 1979



TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Actual and Prolected Financial Ratios, 1974   1983
Actual                                                Projected
Year ending June 30                        1974    1975    1976    1977       1978        1979        1980        1981          1982          1983
A. Incame Statement Items as Percentage of Average Total Assets
Gross income                                              5.7     6.6      6.7     7.3       8.1        8.1         8.6          9.5          10.0          10.2
Financial expenses                                        2.2     1.5      2.1     2.3       2.5         2.5        2.8          3.0           3.4           3.4
Administrative expenses                                   2,0     1.6      1.8     1.4       0.9        0.8         0.8          0. 8                        0.9
Gross profit                                              1.5     3.5      2.8     3.5       4.7        4.8         5.0          5.7           5.8           5.9
Net earnings                                              0.7     1.7      1.5     1.8       2.3        2.4         2.5          2.8           2.9           3.0
B. Administrative Expenses as Percentage of                    2.6     2.4      3.3     1.8       1.5         1.8         2.0         2.5           3.0           3.8
Amount Approved
C. Selected Income and Cost Items
Income from loans as percentage of average
loan portfolio                                         8.4      9.9     8.2      9.0      10.6       11.7        11.1         11.2          11.1          11.1
Cost of debt as percentage of average
long-term debt                                         4.0      3.5     4.4      4.7      6.1         6.0         6.3          6.0           6.6           6.5
Spread                                                   4.4      6.4     3.8      4.3       4.1        5.7         4.8          5.2           4.5           4.6
D. Neet Profit
Net profit as percentage of year-end net worth            2.3     2.2      2.2     2.3       2.9        3.1         3.5          4.3           4.8           5.5
Net profit as percentage of average net worth             1.7     3.0      2.5     2.8       3.6        3.6         3.7          4.5           5.1           5.6
E. Structural Ratios
Long-term debt/equity based on outstanding deb ts         1.0     0.6     0.6      0.6       0.4        0.4         0.5          0.6           0.8           0.9
Provisions as percentage of TIB loan and
equity portfolio                                       0.5      0.6     1.0      1.5      2.2         2.4         2.8          3.0           3.2           3.4
P. Debt Coverage
Debt Service Coverage (DSC) (excluding NBC)               8.8    15.0      1.4     1.7       2.6        2,8         3.2          3.4           3.7           4.0
EAPID
June 1979



- 33 -
ANNEX 8
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Forecast of Operations
(in T Shs millions)
Year Ending June 30           1979          1980          1981          1982          1983
Approvals
Loans
Foreign                  243.6         278.6         278.6         278.6         278.6
Local                    104.4         119.4         119.4         119.4         119.4
Subtotal               348.0         398.0         398.0         398.0         398.0
Investments                2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0
Total                  350.0         400.0         400.0         400.0         400.0
Commitments
Loans
Foreign                  350.1         267.1         278.6         278.6         278.6
Local                    150.0         114.5         119.4         119.4         119.4
Subtotal               500.1         381.6         398.0         398.0         398.0
Investments                2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0
Total                  502.1         383.6         400.0         400.0         400.0
Disbursements
Loans
Foreign                  136.1         224.5         273.9         289.5         276.3
Local                     58.3          96.2         117.4         124.0         118.4
Subtotal               194.4         320.7         391.3         413.5         394.7
Investments                7.2           2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0
Total                  201.6         322.7         393.3         415.5         396.7
EAPID
June 1979



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Income Statements (1979 - 1983)
(T Shs '000)
Year Ending June 30          1978       1979       1980       1981        1982        1982
REVENUE
Interest on Short-term
Investments                   7,776      9,125      8,007       6,252       4,977       3s3L'14
Interest on Loans              32,852    45,234    67,702        98,709    132,566    163g558
Commitment Fees                 3,442      3,057      3,665       3,732       3,578       3,6i1
Commission                      2,005      5,001      3,815       3,980       3,980       3,980
Sundry Income                   1,107      2,000      2,000       2,000       2,000       2,0Q00
Total Revenue                47,182    64,417    85,189    114,673    147,101    177,0.3
EXPENSES
Salaries and Personnel
Expenses                      3,124      3,748      4,497       5,386       6,463       7,7C6
Other Administrative
Expenses                      1,817      2,360      3,068       3,988       5,184       6_739
Sub-Total                     4,941      6,108      7,565       9,374      11,647      1lb,49.
Interest and Commitment
Charges on Borrowings        11,109    13,734    18,013        24,664      37,231      47,8101
Depreciation                      296        300        400         400         500
Provisions                      3,302      5,893      9,621      11,739      12,402      11.84
Total Expenses               19,648    26,035    35,599        46,177      61,780      74,64Qi
Net Income Before Taxes        27,534    38,382    49,590        68,496      85,321    102,411J
Provision for Income Tax       13,840    19,191    24,795        34,248      42,661      51,20"I
NET PROFIT                   13.694    19 191    24.795        34,248      42 660      rj 203
EAPID
June 1979



- 35 -
ANNEX 10
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Balance Sheets
(T Shs Million)
As of June 30                        1978    1979    1980       1981   1982      1983
Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash at bank & in hand           44.3    58.6    41.9       27.5    25.8    20.0
Short-term investments          214.7   214.7   162.1    132.1   102.1    82.1
Receivables                      27.3    30.0    33.0       36.3    39.9    43.9
Other Current Assets              6.4     6.4      6.4       6.4     6.4      6.4
Total Current Assets          292.7   309.7   243.4    202.3   174.2   152.4
Long-Term Assets
Loan Portfolio                  377.7   536.4   795.8  1,107.1 1,418.4 1,678.1
Equity Investments               32.8    60.9    62.9      64.9    66.9    68.9
410.5   597.3   858.7  1,172.0 1,485.3 1,747.0
Provisions                       (8.4)  (14.2)  (23.8)   (35.5)  (47.9)  (59.7)
Net Portfolio                   402.1   583.1   834.9  1,136.5 1,437.4 1,687.3
Fixed Assets                      2.1     2.2      2.3       2.4     2.6      2.8
Total Long-Term Assets       404.2
TOTAL ASSETS                        =       B95.0 1,080.6  1,341.2 1,14.2 1,842.5
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                 10.9    12.0    13.2       14.5    15.9    17.5
Tax Payable                      13.8    19.2    24.8       34.2    42.6    51.2
Total Current Liabilities    24.7    31.2    38.0        48.7    58.3    68.7
Long-Term Borrowings            206.0   248.4   324.4    496.1   672.7   839.6
Total Liabilities               230.7   279.6   362.4    544.8   731.0   908.3
NET WORTH
Paid-in Capital                 100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Grants                          333.0   463.0   541.0    585.0   629.0   629.0
Retained earnings                33.2    52.4    77.2    111.4   154.0   205.2
Total Net Worth              466.2   615.4   718.2    796.4   883.0   934.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH       if6.9   89=50 1j080.6   .341. 2  .1*64.2 1..842.5
EAPID
June 1979



- 36 -
ANNEX 11.
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Projected Cash Flow
(T Shs '000)
Sources                                1979         1980         1981         1982         1983
Net Profit before tax                38,382       49,590       68,496       85,321      102,417
Depreciation                            300          400          400          500          50J
Provision                             5,893        9,621       11,739       12,402       11,841
Funds from Operations               44,575       59,611        80,635       98,223      114,753
Loan collections                     35,748       61,300       80,000      102,000      135,00(
Draw down from short-term
investments                                    52,550       30,000       30,000       20,000
Increase in Accounts Payables        1,090         1,200        1,320        1,450        1,590
Long-term borrowings                60,000      100,000       200,000      206,000      198,000
Grants                             130,000        78,000       44,000       44,000         -
Total Sources                    271,413      352,661      435,955      481,673       469,348
Uses
Loan Disbursements                  58,330
Local CuLrrency                                96,200      117,400      124,000       118,40(1
Foreign Currency                 136,102      224,500      273,900      289,400       276,300
Total                          194,432      320,700      391,300      413,400      394,70C
Equity Investments                  28,100         2,000        2,000        2,000        2,OOC
Tax Payments                        13,840        19,191       24,795       34,248       42,661
Long-term debt repaymeent           17,599        24,064       28,358       29,438       31,123
Increase in Receivables              2,730         3,003        3,300        3,630        3,990
Increase in Fixed Assets                400          500          500          700          700
Total Uses                       257,101      369,458      450,253      483,416      475,174
Increase/Diecrease in Cash          14,312       (16,797)     (14,298)      (1,743)      (5,826)
EAPID
June 1979



- 37 -
ANNEX 12
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Bank Loan and
EEC Special Action Credit
IBRD Fiscal Year                                Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                      at end of Quarter
($'ooos)
1980                                            IBRD       EEC S.A. Credit
June 30, 1980                                    200               800
1981
September 30, 1980                               500            1,750
December 31, 1980                                800            2,950
March 31, 1981                                 1,500            6,500
June 30, 1981                                  2,200            8,500
1982
September 30, 1981                             3,500           12,000
December 31, 1981                              5,000           15,000
March 31, 1982                                 7,000
June 30, 1982                                  8,000
1983
September 30, 1982                            10,000
December 31, 1982                             12,000
March 31, 1983                                15,000
June 30, 1983                                 17,000
1984
September 30, 1983                            19,000
December 31, 1983                             21,000
March 31, 1984                                23,000
June 30, 1984                                 25,000
EAPID
June 1979



- 38 -
ANNEX 13
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Information Related to TIB
1.   TIB' s Statement of Investment and Financial Policy
2.   Board of Directors
3.   Organization Chart
4.   Projection Assumptions
5.   Pipeline of Projects as of October 1, 1978
(Documentation)
6.   TIB, Information for the World Bank Appraisal Mission (October 1K'.79)
7.   TIB, Follow-up Report for the Quarter Ending September 30, 1978
8.   TIB, Annual Report, July 1977 - June 1978 (Draft)
B.   General
9.   Financial Institutions
(Documentation)
10.   Bank of Tanzania, Economic Bulletin, March 1978
11.   United Republic of Tanzania, The Economic Survey 1977 - 1978
(in Swahili)
12.   United Repulbic of Tanzania, Mpango Wa Maendeleo Wa Mwaka
(Development Budget for FY 1979)
13.   United Republic of Tanzania, Speech by the Minister for
Finance and Planning, NDugu E.I.M. 34tei, Introducing
the Estimate of Public Revenue and Expenditure for
1978/1979 and the Development Plan 1978/1979 to
the National Assembly on June 15, 1978.
14.   Un:ted Republic of Tanzania, Speech by the Hon. C. d. Msuya,
Minister of Industries, to the Budget Sessin of the National
Assembly for the 1978/1979 Session.
EAPID
June 1979



