Document of                -            < ,
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2606-T.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
July 12, 1979
t  This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Tanzania Shilling (TSh.)
US$1.00                 =  TShs. 8.30
TSh. 1.0               -  US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in
relation to a basket of currencies, the US Dollar/
Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to
TShs. 8.30 which is close to the 1979 average exchange
rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIS     =  Basic Industrial Strategy
EADB    =  East African Development Bank
EEC     m European Economic Community
NBC     -  National Bank of Commerce
NDC     =  National Development Corporation
NIC     =  National Insurance Corporation
SIDO    =  Small Industries Development Organization
SSI     =  Small-Scale Industries
TDFL    -  Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
TIB     =  Tanzania Investment Bank
TRDB    =  Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TIB       :  July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER              :  TanzaLnia Investment Bank (TIB) for IBRD loan and United
Republic of Tanzania for EEC Special Action Credit
GUARANTOR             : United Republic of Tanzania for loan
AMOUNT                : US$25 million equivalent loan
US$15 million equivalent Special Action Credit
TERMS                 :  Loan to TIB would be repayable substantially in con-
formity with the aggregate amortization schedule for
sub-loans and investments for which withdrawals from
the loan account are approved or authorized. The
interest rate would be 7.9 % per annum.
Special Action Credit would be on standard IDA terms
to Government; it would be onlent to TIB under a
subsidiary loan agreement on terms equivalent to
the IBRD loan.
RELENDING TERMS          TIB would relend the proceeds of the loan and Special
Action Credit at an interest rate of 11% per annum.
The maximum maturity of sub-loans will be 15 years
including adequate grace periods. The exchange
risk would be assumed fully by sub-borrowers.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION              The purpose of the proposed project is to meet part of
TIB's foreign exchange requirements for investments
in rnedium and large scale industrial, agro-processing,
and tourism development projects through June 1982.
FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SlJBMISSIONS:  Banlk Loan - June 30, 1982
Special Action Credit - June 30, 1981.
CLOStNG DATE          :  Bank Loan - June 30, 1984
Special Action Credit - December 31, 1981
DEBT COVENANTS        : Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
RISKS                 : There are no major risks associated with this
Project.
This document has a restrictecl distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contients may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATES:
(US$ million)
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
IBRD Loan:  Annual                         0.2    2.0      5.8    9.0    8.0
Cumulative                    0.2    2.2      8.0   17.0   25.0
EEC Special Action Credit:  Annual         0.8    7.7      6.5
Cumulative  0.8    8.5    15.0
APPRAISAL REPORT:             Report No. 2400-TA, dated June 22, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) with the guarantee of the United
Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$25 million and a proposed EEC
Special Action Credit of $15 million equivalent to the United Republic of
Tanzania for onlending to TIB to help finance the foreign exchange component
of investm[ents by this development finance company in Tanzania. The interest
on the loan would be 7.9% per annum and its amortization will conform sub-
stantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the
specific investment projects financed out of the loan. The credit would be
made to the United Republic of Tanzania from the EEC Special Action Account in
accordance with the terms of the agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Associa-
tion and the European Economic Community (EEC). Credit funds would be onlent
from the Government to TIB on terms equivalent to the IBRD loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1977 of US$200. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 45% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector has also remained at about 40% of GDP in current prices but
has risen to 46% in 1966 prices (with agriculture falling to 38% in constant
prices; thus a price shift has offset the real growth of the service sector).
Overall population density is low, though a few areas are considered over-
populated. Population growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum with both
fertility and mortality at relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, and wholesale trade are under state
control. Controls are used extensively to direct economic activity, including
import licensing, foreign exchange control, price control, the reservation of
some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and detailed Government
I/   This section is esserLtially the same as that of the President's Renort
on the Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Limited (TDFL) project
dated June 8, 1979.



-2-
investment planning. The second major feature of Tanzania's development
strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development and social programs to
benefit the poor. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in its decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1967-77 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.6%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
has recovered well, with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978.
6.        The Government has an impressive record of domestic resource
mobilization. Between 1966-67 and 1976-77 the share of recurrent revenue
rose from 14.3% to 20.2% of GDP. This has been achieved through a combina-
tion of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960's through 1973, fell
to half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976-77. These are extremely high levels of savings for a country
at Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban-rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend of
an increasing gap in the early 1960s. It is likely that the gap has been
slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of agricultural produc-
tion and higher producer prices. Regional income differentials in rural areas
have tended to widen slightly. Within the urban sector there has been a
dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential between the highest-
paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50 to I in 1961 to
8 to 1 in 1975. However, the overall formal urban sector earnings structure
has remained relatively stable while a large informal sector has emerged com-
prising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed workers with earnings
significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies of wage
restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should have a bene-
ficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution and the basic
needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in universal primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in public
expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite satisfactory performance on growth, domestic resource mobil-
ization and income distribution, there are other areas in which performance
has been less satisfactory. The most worrying long-term trend is the slow
growth of agricultural production. In the period 1967-77 agriculture grew at
an annual rate of 2.7%, the same as the rate of growth of population. In the
-t three years agricultural growth has been higher, but this was primarily
a reflection of the recovery to the long-term trend from the drought years



- 3 -
1973-74. In addition, the recovery has been limited to subsistence agricul-
ture; monetary agricultural production was only 2.2% higher in 1977 than in
1972.
9.       Slow agricultural growth has been largely responsible for a second
problem, the disappointingly slow growth of export volume -- the volume
of exports of goods alone was actually 35% lower in 1977 than in 1966.
While increaLsed levels of foreign assistance and service receipts as well
as high coffee prices mitigated the worst effects of the decline in export
volume in 1976 and 1977, with the end of the coffee boom export performance
has again become a serious problem.
Recent Economic Performance
10.       The economy contintLed its recovery in 1977 and 1978.  Total GDP
increased by 5.9% in 1977. There was no significant change in export volume
but the boom in coffee prices helped raise commodity export receipts from
TSh. 3,828 million to TSh. 4,585 million. Preliminary data show a GDP growth
rate of 5.6% in 1978. International reserves rose to US$280 million at
the end of 1977 and import restrictions were relaxed. However, with the
fall of coffee prices in 1978 and increased import levels, reserves have
fallen rapidly; by January 1979 they had fallen to less than $100 million,
equivalent to about one montlh of imports at the 1978 level.
11.       The Government has continued to adhere to the principal elements
of the policy package introduced at the time of appraisal and negotiation of
the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. These include reallocation of
investment in favor of directly productive sectors, higher agricultural pro-
ducer prices, constraints on wages and salaries, and price and tax increases
to restrain private consumption. In the fiscal years of 1977 and 1978 the
Government also succeeded in bringing Government spending under control
and relaxed. import controls. Because excessive Government spending and
borrowing from the banking system were threatening to undermine financial
stability and the entire program of recovery in early 1976, a program of
budgetary control was developed by the Government and supported by IMF assis-
tance and a Program Credit (No. 688-TA) in early 1977. Through the imposition
of new budgetary control measures and the reimposition of a progressive tax
on coffee exports, the Government was able to reduce Government debt to the
banking system and in 1977-78 hold bank borrowing to nearly zero. The Program
Credit was also designed to support selected relaxation of import controls in
order to provide needed imports of spare parts and raw materials for increased
capacity utilization. After some delays, the availability of essential main-
tenance imports has increased. However, the recent fall in expgrt receipts
(particularly coffee) and the subsequent decline in reserves will lead to large
cuts in even high priority imports of raw materials, spare parts and caDital goods
unless additional external balance of payments assistance can be obtained. In
addition, while the growth in Government revenues was reduced by the decline on
coffee prices (upon which there is a sharply graduated export tax), Government
expenditures began to grow rapidly again in early 1978. The fall in customs
and excise revenue resulting from a short-fall in projected imports will also



- 4 -
force the Government to increase its borrowing from the banking system.
Finally, the conflict with Uganda has further strained both the budget and the
balance of payments. As a result of these trends Tanzania is again facing a
balance of payments crisis. To begin to address this the Government announced
a 10% devaluation in January, 1979 and reached an agreement with the IMF for
the use of the first credit tranche and drawings under the trust fund and
export compensatory facility. The problem of increasing Government expendi-
tures has been the prime focus of the budgetary review for FY 1980.
12.        In recent months the Government has experimented with measures to
increase labor productivity. These have included layoffs of some redundant
workers,trial incentive schemes at the firm level and consultancy studies
of the operational problems of individual firms. Of potentially greater
importance, in the Budget Speech in June 1978 the Finance Minister called for
the adoption of a payment-by-result wage system to stimulate productivity;
discussions on this matter are now in process between the Ministry of Finance
and the other involved ministries.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government s reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has remained low. Including a notional 40% share of the debt of the
East African Community Corporations, it was less than 8% in 1977. Future debt
service developments will depend on how the balance of payments difficulties
(para 11) are resolved. Assuming the Government's increasing use of modest
amounts of commercial funds continues, the debt service ratio is projected to
increased to about 15% by 1985; this development is being closely monitored.
In 1977 the Bank held 14% of Tanzania's external debt (for the Bank Group, it
was 26%) and received 27% of Tanzania's debt service (29% for the Bank Group).
We were projecting these to remain at about 30% through the 1980s, but the
recent decisions of many donors to switch to grant terms and to forgive past
debts will lead to a somewhat higher level of Bank exposure unless the Govern-
ment turns to more significant commercial borrowing and supplier's credits.
However, with the Bank debt service ratio at only about 3%, this is not
expected to be a problem.
14.       Tanzania has a well conceived development program which will require
resources in excess of domestic savings and external capital made available
solely to finance the foreign exchange costs of projects. Given the Govern-
ment's efforts to mobilize domestic resources and in view of our support
for its increased emphasis on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank
Group will continue to finance a high proportion of total costs including, in
appropriate cases, a portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports to
the Partner States on the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corpora-
tions and the General Services. The next phase of the mediator's work will be



- 5 -
to make recommendations on the allocation of these assets and liabilities.
The mediator's reports and recommendations on the future structure of the East
African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted in principle by the Partner
States and he is now preparing to revise EADB's Charter to reflect the agreed
r_ ommendations.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on Tan-
zania's budget as new national corporations take over the services formerly
provi-ded by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIAY'
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 38 IDA credits and 18 Bank loans, of
which two are on Third Window terms, amounting to US$722.0 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
developmenl: of the common services and development bank operated regionally by
Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial dlifficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Goverrment. An IFC investment of US$1.75 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978 and ain investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979.  Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of May 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are incresasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY 1972 Bank Group operations
were directed mainly on infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the
operations approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects.
Furthermore, a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure projects
have been closely linked with specific productive activities. For example,
the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1976,
will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and
1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No.
833-TA). Directly productive projects recently approved include the Second
Cashewnut Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling
Project (Credit No. 802-TA), the Mwanza/ Shinyanga Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 803-TA), the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and
Credit No. 875-TA) and the TDFL Project (Loan No.1745-TA).  In addition,
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's ReDort
on the TDFL Project dated June 8, 1979.



a Tourism Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 860-TA), a Sixth Education Project
(Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were
approved by the Board in FY79. Projects which have been appraised include a
Second Urban Water Supply Project, a line of credit to the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (TRDB), a Smallholder Tea Consolidation Project, a Foodgrain
Storage and Milling Project, and a Harbours Project. A rural development
project in Mara, an education project, a small scale industries project, an
urban project, a coconut project and an agricultural services project are
also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic admi-
nistrative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, difficulties have
been most severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural
sector. As our lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector,
these problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By
contrast, the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the
Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, and Morogoro Industrial Estate
Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement for relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank
Group financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The need to
establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible
Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems was one
of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two profes-
sionals in October 1976.  In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group
review of project implementation was established. Monthly discussions on the
Bank Group program chaired by the Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank
Group staff and officials from implementing agencies deal in detail with
individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project imple-
mentation across a number of sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has
been a noticeable improvement in project implementation. Actions agreed to
during the reviews have been completed relatively fast and coordination and
communication between the Ministry of Finance and the various ministries and
agencies responsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project



implementation review system, the Ministry of Finance has set up a unit to
oversee project performance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent
responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project
problems raised by Bank Staff. As a consequence, the disbursement records of
Bank Group financed projects have improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is
about equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, the Government is implementing its invest-
ment program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more
effectively than in the past.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General Backrground
22.      At Independence Tanzania had an extremely limited industrial sector
dominated by private firms. Three major features have characterized the
sector sinces that time: rapid expansion, a diversification in output and a
major shift in ownership from private to public hands.  The share of manufac-
turing in G:DP rose from just under 4% in 1961 to 10% in 1970, and has remained
around this level since. Secondly, Tanzania's industrial structure has under-
gone a change from a rudimentary structure producing a very limited range
of goods to a more diversified structure, producing a larger variety of
food and non-food consumer goods, intermediate goods and some capital goods.
Finally, following the Arusha Declaration of 1967, the Government systematic-
ally transferred the control and ownership of a number of large private and
foreign-owned industrial enterprises to Government-owned parastatals. By 1976
parastatals accounted for 53% of the value added and 48% of the employment in
the industrial sector. Notwithstanding the rapid growth of public enterprises,
the private sector has remained an important participant in industry.
Performance and Problems
23.       The industrial sector grew fairly rapidly in the sixties but later
experienced. a decline in its rate of growth. Value added in manufacturing
grew at an average rate of 10.8% between 1965 and 1969, but the growth rate
fell to 7.4% between 1970 and 1973. After a virtual stagnation in
production in 1974 and 1975 because of the economic crisis in those years and
its attendant supply problems for  a wide range of industrial inputs, output
has recovered, showing a growth rate of about 6.4% in 1976 and 5.4% in 1977.
24.      Tle overall decline in the industrial growth rates from the high
levels in t:he late sixties reflects a number of factors. Most important,
the Government has not yet developed the administrative capability to monitor
and coordinate effectively the operations of the control system which was
instituted along with the irncreased public ownership of manufacturing enter-
prises.  Major components of this control system include centralized decision
making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign exchange through import
licensing, an extensive regime of price controls and rules of procedure



- 8 -
operated by the National Pricing Commission, and wage-setting by the Permanent
Labor Tribunal and the Government. While the Government feels these controls
are needed to achieve its development goals, their effect has largely been to
insulate public enterprises from the discipline of market forces; this is
particularly serious as performance indicators consistent with the macro
systems and clear guidelines for evaluating performance are still lacking.
In addition, there is a scarcity of trained managerial personnel and skilled
labor, and most enterprises have to live with periodic shortages of other
key inputs.
25.      The Bank Group has raised these issues in its discussions with the
Government on general economic work and in specific projects in the indus-
trial sector; the Government is aware of the problems, and is making efforts
to resolve them. It has acknowledged the problems of low labor productivity
and low capacity utilization, and is stressing the need to improve per-
formance. While decisions on major policy changes relating to incentives,
price and import control systems, and the oversight of parastatals will take
time because of the importance and breadth of the issues involved, the future
policy on incentives is under active discussion at present (para. 12). In
addition, a number of improvements have already been made at the firm level.
These include some cases of retrenchment in over-manned parastatals, better
discipline among workers mainly due to improved relations between managers
and the labor union,greater worker participation in certain aspects of
decision-making, introduction of incentive systems in a few firms and relaxa-
tion of limitations on recruitment of expatriate experts. In particular, the
National Development Corporation, the largest parastatal holding company,
hired a firm of consultants to advise on operational efficiency in some of its
subsidiaries. Some parastatals have also commissioned studies under the IDA
Technical Assistance Credit (No. 601-TA), with a view to identifying causes
for low capacity utilization and improving overall operational efficiency.
26.      The emphasis on productivity and capacity utilization has had the
effect of increasing confidence in the industrial sector and improving the
overall investment climate. Furthermore, the Government has clarified, at the
highest level, that the Arusha Declaration did not preclude private investment
in industry, and that such investment would be encouraged in all areas not
specifically reserved for full Government ownership. This has been followed
in practice by increased licenses for the importation of spare parts and raw
materials for private industries. The effect of these actions has been a
marked increase in private sector investment in industry over the past year.
While the recent developments in the balance of payments have already led to
some fall in import licenses, the expansion in investment activity by the
private sector has been maintained.
Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five-Year Plan
27.        The Government's present strategy for the development of the
industrial sector is based on the Basic Industrial Strategy (BIS) which was
adopted in 1974. The two main goals of this strategy are structural trans-
formation and self-reliance; it emphasizes the use of domestic resources
for domestic needs. Priority will be given to industries which cater for the
basic needs of the majority of Tanzanians, such as food, shelter and health,
and to the development of heavy industries, such as iron and steel. By using



-9 -
local resources and producing for the local market, the BIS envisages a struc-
tural transformation of the etconomy through a system of backward and forward
linkages. Although the BIS stresses the domestic market, the Government
also recognizes the need to expand export-oriented agricultural processing
industries to increase the foreign exchange earning capacity of the country.
The major potentia.l problem with the BIS is that attempts to restructure the
economy too quickly during a period of resource stringency may ultimately
frustrate both growth and structural change. A too-rapid expansion of the
metals sector (especially steel production) may lead to excessive reliance on
external finance, know-how and markets and the massive investment coordination
required by the strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning
capacity.
28.       The Third Five-Year Plan (1976 - 1981), currently under implementa-
tion, incorporates the first phase of the BIS. Under this Plan, the specific
objectives are to improve the efficiency and capacity utilization in existing
industries and to expand and establish industrial capacity for production to
meet basic needs. The targeted growth rate for the industrial sector is 9.3%
per annum compared to an overall GDP growth target under the Plan of 6%.
While reasonable growth in industrial production was achieved during the first
two years of the Plan (as noted above), it did not match the targeted growth
rate. In line with the important role which industry plays in the Plan, a
total of TShs. 5,147 million (24% of the total investment allocation in the
Plan), has been earmarked for public investment in the sector.
Small-Scale: Industry
29.        Although it is difficult to accurately isolate the performance of
small-scale industries (SSIs) due to the lack of data, SSIs appear to be
concentrated in those areas associated with early industrialization, for
example, grain milling, bakeries, clothing and furniture. As the share
of SSI production in manufacturing appears to be declining, the Government has
decided to promote the development of SSIs. In 1972, it established the Small
Industries Development Organization (SIDO) to have primary responsibility for
planning, promoting and providing all kinds of assistance to small-scale
industries. SIDO's major activities are the setting up of industrial estates
and training-cum-production centers for imparting skill and craft training.
Its other activities include preparation of feasibility studies, provision of
hire-purchase finance, marketing, and other technical assistance. The Govern-
ment has resquested the Bank Group to assist SIDO and a Bank mission recently
visited Tanzania to identify a suitable project.
The Financial Sector
30.       Tanzania's financial institutions are relatively well developed for
a country of its size. In addition to the Bank of Tanzania (the central bank
responsible for overall monetary policy), there are nine other financial in-
stitutions: a State-owned ,commercial bank, a State-owned insurance corpora-
tion, a national provident fund, four development banks (three dealing
with the modern sectors of manufacturing, transport, etc., and one with rural
development), a savings bank and a housing bank. Of these, the commercial,



- 10 -
savings and housing banks are authorized to accept deposits from the public.
Tanzania has no active private capital market and the bulk of equity invest-
ments is provided by the Government through the budgetary process. Overall,
the respective roles and functions of the financial institutions are clearly
defined and there is no costly duplication of effort.
31.       The three development banks dealing with the modern sectors are
the East African Development Bank (EADB), the Tanganyika Development Finance
Company, Limited (TDFL) and the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB). EADB, an East
African Community Corporation, whose majority shares are held by the Govern-
ments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, is directed by its charter to make
38.75% of its investments in Tanzania. With the dissolution of the East
African Community, EADB's role has diminished considerably because of the
uncertainty surrounding its future. TDFL, which is jointly owned by TIB and
bilateral aid agencies of the U.K., West Germany and the Netherlands, has
a relatively small equity base and provides funds mainly to medium-size
private enterprises. TIB, discussed in detail below, provides medium and
long-term finance primarily to parastatals in the industrial sector. Although
there is some overlapping of functions between TDFL and TIB, their respective
roles are well defined, with TIB concentrating on larger and public enterprises.
Furthermore, as TIB owns 30% of TDFL's share capital and appoints two directors
on its Board, reasonable coordination of operations of the two organizations
is assured. In FY78 the average TIB loan was TShs. 13 million compared to
TShs. 2 million (TShs. 3 million including equity investments) for TDFL.
Bank Group Experience in Industry
32.       The Bank Group has been extensively involved with TIB since 1974,
and has made one IDA credit and two Bank loans for a total of US$36 million.
Progress on these operations has been satisfactory as TIB has developed into
a well organized institution and an efficient allocator of medium and long-
term funds to the industrial sector. The Bank Group is expanding its assis-
tance to Tanzania through financial intermediaries; a loan of US$11 million
to TDFL was recently approved and an appraisal for a credit of US$10 million
to TRDB is being completed.
33.       The Bank Group has also provided US$143 million to four industrial
projects. Two investments totalling US$60 million have been made in the
textile sector through the National Textile Corporation, the first to expand
an existing operation, the second to set up a new integrated polyester
textile mill. The Bank Group also approved US$23 million for an industrial
complex at Morogoro in 1977, wherein a canvas mill and a shoe factory will be
set up with the primary objective of exporting their output. Early this year
the Bank Group approved a total of US$60 million for the Mufindi Pulp and
Paper Project. The project consists of the establishment of an integrated
pulp and paper mill with an initial capacity of 60,000 tons per annum of
paper and board as well as 1,400 tons of pulp for sale outside the mill. The
Bank Group has also provided an IDA credit of US$6 million for a Technical
Assistance Project. In the SSI sector, IDA has approved a US$1.4 million
component as part of the Second National Sites and Services Project which will



- 11 -
provide assistance to small-scale industries in Tabora and Tanga. The program
will provide infrastructure for industrial clusters, credit for equipment and
management and technical assistance to selected small enterprises. In view
of the reemergence of the private sector, IFC has approved investments of
US$1.75 million in soap manufacturing and US$1.5 million in metal project
manufacturing (para. 17) and is studying other project possibilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed loan would be the Bank Group's fourth line of credit
to TIB; the first was an IDA credit (No. 460-TA for US$6 million) approved in
1974, the second and the third were IBRD loans (No. 1172-TA and No. 1498-TA
for US$15 million each) approved in 1975 and 1977, respectively. TIB also
administers the IDA Technical Assistance Credit of US$6 million (No. 601-TA).
A report entitled "Appraisal of the Tanzania Investment Bank", dated
June 22, 1979 is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The project was appraised in ODctober/November 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington in June 1979 and the Tanzanian Delegation was led by
Ernest Mulokozi, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning. A Loan,
Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report, and a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is in Annex III.
Ownership and Role
35.       Established in 1970, TIB is wholly owned by the Tanzanian Govern-
ment.  It has an authorized capital of TShs. 200 million of which TShs. 100
million was paid-in as of December 31, 1978. The Government holds 60% of
the paid-in capital, the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) 30% and the National
Insurance Corporation (NIC) 10%. Both NBC and NIC are wholly owned by the
Government. Within the system of financial institutions in Tanzania, TIB's
main role has been to finance projects in the directly productive sectors in
the form of medium and long-term loans. As almost all sizeable projects are
now promoted and implemented by parastatals, equity financing is usually
provided directly through the; budget. Through its independent appraisal and
investment decision-making process, TIB has provided a critical independent
check on the technical, financial and economic feasibility of parastatal
investments which are presented to it for financing, thereby improving the
quality of resource allocation in Tanzania. Having built up its capacity and
gained the confidence of the industrial sector, TIB is gradually extending
its activities from loan financing to project identification and promotion.
As the intermediary for channelling funds under IDA's Technical Assistance
Project, TIB has been assisting parastatals to carry out (i) pre-investment
and feasibility studies in respect of several new project ideas and (ii)
capacity utilization and effiLciency studies in respect of projects facing
operational problems.
Board of Directors, Management and Organization
36.       TIB's Board is chaired by its Managing Director, who is appointed
by the President, and has ei,ght other members. They include the Commissioner
of Sectoral Planning of the M4inistry of Finance and Planning, a senior



- 12 -
economist in the President's Office, a representative of the labor union, the
General Manager of NIC, the Director of the Institute of Finance Management
and three representatives of NBC. TIB's Board is actively involved in TIB's
work with the sole power of approving loans and equity investments. A General
Manager assists the Managing Director in overseeing TIB and its organizational
structure consists of four departments: Operations, Planning and Development,
Finance, and Secretary's and Administration. Tanzanians head all these
departments. As of December 1978, TIB's total professional staff numbered
43, of which eight were expatriates. TIB has developed an excellent training
program for its staff, and is making good use of overseas training programs
and its expatriate staff in training Tanzanians.
Operations and Portfolio
37.       TIB's operations have grown rapidly since its founding in 1970.
The level of TIB's loan approvals increased from 9 loans for TShs. 29 million
in FY72 to 23 loans for a total of TShs. 285 million in FY78. TIB's cumulative
loan approvals for ordinary operations as of March 31, 1979 amounted to 137
loans for TShs. 1,119.5 million. In addition, it has made equity investments
in thirteen enterprises for TShs. 64 million. TIB assists a broad range of
economic sectors and most TIB-assisted projects utilize domestic raw materials.
The most important sectors are food and food processing, transport, chemical
and rubber products, tourism development, textiles and metals. Projects
approved during the fifteen months ending September 1978 are expected to
create 9,135 new jobs at an average investment cost per direct job created
of about US$13,400 which is reasonable given TIB's primary focus on medium
and large-scale industry. These projects have an average estimated financial
rate of return of 20% and economic rate of return of 23%. The growth of
commitments and disbursements has kept pace with approvals; as of March 31,
1979 about 73% of TIB'S net approvals by amount and 91% by number had been
committed and over 70% of the committed amount had been disbursed. By
improving its follow-up during project implementation, TIB has increased
its disbursement rate appreciably in recent years.
38.       As of December 31, 1978, TIB's loan portfolio amounted to TSh. 476
million for 81 projects of which TShs. 135 million (28%) in 32 projects was
affected by arrears of over three months. While this represents an improve-
ment from the level outstanding at the time of the third TIB line of credit
(39%), it does not fully reflect the emphasis TIB has placed on addressing
its portfolio problems. Over the past two years, TIB has considerably
strengthened its follow-up capacity. It has conducted comprehensive reviews
of each problem project, made specific recommendations for resolving the
causes of the problems and used its influence as a financier to ensure that
appropriate steps are taken in response to these recommendations. These
actions have yielded good results; of the six projects identified as problem
projects at the last TIB appraisal, one is already profitable and three others
have shown improved operating results. During appraisal, TIB's efforts in
problem follow-up were assessed in detail and were found to be adequate. In
addition, as noted above, TIB has begun actively to promote use of the IDA
Technical Assistance Credit for studies of capacity utilization problems.
Finally, the size of the arrears affected portfolio does not fully reflect



- 13 -
the quality of TIB's loans because about 30% of the portfolio in arrears over
3 months involves projects which have temporary problems where arrears are
likely to be collected in the near future and 28% of the arrears affected
projects are under implementation, requiring extensions of grace periods due
to delays in project completion. The remaining ten projects were facing
technical and marketing problems; while five of these are classified as havirng
moderate problems with a reasonable chance of overcoming their difficulties,
the others (involving TIB loains of TShs. 23 million) are in poor condition and
TIB nxi,y 1-se? a portion of its investments in them. Since all these problem
projects are parastatals, there are good prospects that TIB will recover most
of the amounts due from the r,elevant holding companies.
39.       TIB's equity portfolio was TShs. 37.8 million as of December 31,
1978 including investments in the common stock of 5 companies (TShs. 12.8
million) and the preferred stock of nine companies (TShs. 25 million). Its
major investment (TShs. 30 million) is in the common and preferred stocks
of TDFL. While TDFL has been paying interest on its income notes, TIB's
other investments yield no return because the projects involved are expe-
riencing various problems or are under implementation.
Financial Condition
40.       As a result of the rapid growth of its operations, TIB's total
assets increased from TShs. 156 million in 1974 to TShs. 697 million by
June 30, 1978. This increase has been financed mainly through grants from
bilateral donors, long-term borrowings, and increased equity.  TIB's net
worth during this period increased from TShs. 78 million to TShs. 466 million,
mainly due t:o grants (TShs. 309 million) and increased paid-in capital and
retained earnings. This rapid increase in TIB's equity base has resulted in
an improvement of its long-term debt to equity ratio from an already sound
position of 1:1 in 1974 to 0.4:1 in 1978. The return on TIB's average net
worth, as of June 30, 1978 was only 3.6%; however, in view of the low leverage
in its capit:al structure this is adequate. TIB's administrative expenses were
reasonable at 0.9% of the total assets. TIB's liquidity situation continues
to be sound and the debt service coverage at 2.6 is adequate.  TIB carried out
a project-by-project review at the time of the 1978 audit and made provisions
of TShs. 8.4 million which were satisfactory to its auditors. Considering
its strong equity base, TIB would continue to be creditworthy even if it
were necessary to write off av sizeable portion of its investments facing
difficulties.
Bank Group Experience with TIB
41.       Since its formation, TIB has developed rapidly into a well organized
and professional financial intermediary. Its pragmatic willingness to iden-
tify and resolve institutional problems and its continuous efforts at increas-
ing its effectiveness in guiding Tanzania's industrial development has earned
it considerable respect withiin Tanzania and with bilateral and multi-lateral
agencies. TIB's project appraisal work has considerably improved and it now
has the ability to undertake comprehensive financial and economic analysis of
investment proposals. In response to implementation and operational difficul-
ties with SDme of its investments, TIB has expanded and improved its follow-up
activities.



- 14 -
42.       The Bank Group has supported TIB since its founding and has worked
closely with TIB in developing its ability to be a key participant in
Tanzania's industrial development. Under the previous three lines of credit,
TIB has financed twenty six sub-projects including projects in leather tan-
ning, textiles, garments, cement, plastics, glassware, soap, vehicle spares,
aluminum, oilseeds, hotels, transportation, soft drinks, farming and marketing
of navy beans and cashewnut processing. Eight of these sub-projects are in
operation and only one project (navy beans) has operating problems; TIB is
following this up closely. The first two lines of credit and about US$12
million of the third are committed. The sub-projects financed under the Bank
Group's lines of credit are estimated to have an average economic rate of
return of about 31% and upon completion will provide employment for almost
10,000 persons.
TIB's Future Strategy
43.       In formulating its investment strategy, TIB has been guided by the
Third Five-Year Plan's investment priorities (para. 28). Over the medium-
term TIB's strategy is:
(a) to increase its share of financing public investments in the
industrial sector from 20 to 25%, particularly by financing the
types of projects recommended in the Basic Industrial Strategy;
(b) to pay more attention to the operational problems of projects
it assists and to make funds available for studies aimed
at identifying and resolving technical problems of operating
companies;
(c) to help improve project implementation by parastatals;
(d) to build up an adequate cadre of technical staff by recruit-
ing and training engineers in different specialties;
(e) to reduce portfolio arrears by improving debt-collections
and communications with parastatals;
(f) to mobilize resources from commercial sources abroad to
meet its growing financial requirements.
44.       We consider this strategy appropriate for TIB; it is consistent
with the Government's development priorities, fits well into TIB's role in
the Tanzanian economy and is within TIB's administrative capability.
Projected Operations, Resource Requirements and Financial Results
45.       TIB's level of lending is expected to increase by 6% in FY79 and
15% in FY80; thereafter, a constant level in nominal terms is assumed until
FY83. TIB is expected to approve about TShs. 1.9 billion in loans and
TShs. 10 million in equity investments in various subsectors from FY79 to
FY83. Of the expected loan commitments of about TShs. 2.1 billion during



- 15 -
this period, about TShs. 1.7 billion will be disbursed. These medium-term
operational targets are withirL TIB's administrative capability and imply that
it will finance about 25% of Tanzanian industrial investment.
46.       TI:B's projected commitments in foreign currency from May 1979
through June 1981 are TShs. 703 million (US$84.7 million). To meet these
requirements TIB will utilize TShs. 109 million presently available for
commitment and it has been assured of additional foreign resources from
bilateral sources equivalent to TShs. 110 million. This will leave a gap of
TShs. 484 million (about US$58 million), of which it is proposed that the Bank
would provide US$25 million and the EEC Special Action Account $15 million.
TIB is making efforts to raise the remaining amount from its traditional
sources and from commercial sources in Europe. TIB is also expected to face
a local currency gap of TShs. 114 million. It anticipates obtaining adequate
local funds from the Tanzanian Government or the Bank of Tanzania.
47.       TIB's return on average net worth is expected to increase from
3.6% in 1978 to about 5.6% by 1983. This level of profitability would enable
it to consider dividend payments to shareholders after 1981 when its retained
earnings will exceed TShs. 100 million, the level which must be reached
according to TIB's Charter before dividends can be declared. TIB is projected
to hold its administrative expenses below 1% of its average total assets
although its; financial expenses are expected to rise as TIB resorts to in-
creased borrowing. The projected return on TIB's equity is rather modest
owing to the large equity base.  TIB's long-term debt to equity ratio of
0.4:1 in 1978 is expected to increase to 0.9:1 by 1983. Unless the Bank
Group agrees otherwise, TIB's long-term debt to equity ratio would not exceed
3:1 (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the draft
Special Action Project Agreement).
Interest Rates
48.       It: is TIB's policy to charge an interest rate which substantially
reflects the cost of capital in Tanzania. Its policy statement has set this
rate at a mLnimum of 10% per annum. The general aim of TIB's financial policy
is, inter aLia, to maintain the value of its capital and to achieve a profit
margin which would enable it to cover its administrative costs, build up
adequate provisions and reserves and remunerate its share capital. Following
these policy guidelines, TIB increased its lending rate three years ago to 11%
for all its ordinary operations. Recently TIB has charged 12% on some of its
loans to the private sector. TIB also charges a flat 1% commission on the
loan amount and another 1% oni the undisbursed commitments. Furthermore, since
TIB passes on the exchange r:Lsk on its foreign borrowings to the sub-borrowers,
the effective rate on its loans is higher than 11%. Indeed with the current
Balance of Payments difficulties forecast (see para. 11) this may add greatly
to the effective interest rate.
49.       TIB's rates are among the highest on medium- and long-term loans to
productive sectors in Tanzania. Although the nominal rates were not positive in
real terms during the last three years given Tanzania's inflation rate, they were
considered by the Bank Group as acceptable because (i) they provided an adequate
spread to IIB, (ii) the effective cost of capital to the ultimate 'borrowers



- 16 -
(including the unquantified exchange risk) was the highest in Tanzania, (iii)
other development banks in the country were charging comparable or often lower
rates on medium/long-term loans, (iv) TIB passes on the foreign exchange risk
to its borrowers, and (v) there were expectations of a decrease in the inflation
rate in the future although the war with Uganda and recent oil price increases
will delay this. Within the overall structure of interest rates in Tanzania,
TIB's are adequate but this structure is expected to be a topic of discussion
with the IMF and the Bank. The interest rate on all subprojects financed under
the loan and Special Action Credit will be 11% (Section 2.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 2.08 of the draft Special Action Project Agreement).
Terms of the Loan and Special Action Credit
50.       Procurement for the subprojects financed under the loan and the
Special Action Credit would be in accordance with TIB's normal procedures,
which have been reviewed and found acceptable.   Disbursements under the
Special Action Credit would be limited to expenditures in local currency or
for goods and services supplied from the nine EEC countries or any developing
country which is a member of the Association and potential recepients of a
Special Action Credit (Section 2.01(b) of the draft Special Action Credit
Agreement). The proposed loan and the proposed Special Action Credit would be
disbursed against foreign exchange requirements, i.e. 100% of the foreign cost
of imported goods and services, 60% of the local cost of goods previously
imported and 40% of the costs of civil works (Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 2.02(b) of the draft Special Action Credit Agree-
ment).
51.       The IBRD loan to TIB would be repaid according to a flexible amort-
ization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules of TIB
sub-loans, which have a maximum maturity of 15 years including adequate grace
periods (Section 2.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Special Action
Credit to the Government would be on standard IDA terms. It would be onlent
to TIB under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and TIB on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01(b) of the
draft Special Action Credit Agreement); these would include terms consistent
with those of the IBRD loan (Section 2.08(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Execution of this subsidiary loan Agreement will be a condition of
effectiveness of the Special Action Credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Special
Action Credit Agreement).
52.       TIB will not require the Bank Group's prior approval of projects
using less than US$1 million from the proposed loan or Special Action Credit
but it will not be able to approve more than an aggregate of US$8 million
equivalent through this procedure under the loan or more than an aggregate
of US$5 million equivalent under the Special Action Credit (Section 2.02(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02(c) of the draft Special Action
Credit Agreement). Under the last IBRD loan the individual project limit was
US$800,000 and the aggregate limit was US$7 million; the proposed increases
are in recognition of TIB's continuing improvement in appraisal work.



- 17 -
Project JustiLfication and Risks
51.       TIB is a well organized and competently managed institution which
is making positive contributions to the economic development of Tanzania
through the selection and financing of economically justified, financially
viable and technically feasible projects. In the past few years, it has
directed increasing attention to problems which have arisen in the industrial
sector. In particular, it has increased its technical assistance to operating
firms through seminars and increased follow-up work and assisted project
preparation through the Technical Assistance Project. It has an appropriate
medium-term strategy involving, among other things, increased lending to the
productive sectors in accordance with the Basic Industrial Strategy. Further-
more, it is helping improve the operational efficiency of parastatal enter-
prises by its willingness to fund consultants to carry out efficiency studies
and to provile training opportunities under the Technical Assistance Project.
To meet its lending targets TIB will need foreign resources; the proposed loan
and Special kction Credit wou:Ld help meet part of its foreign resource require-
ments through June 1981. There are no major risks involved in lending to TIB.
It is a mature and creditworthy development financing institution, having the
support of the Government and a number of bilateral and multilateral financing
institutions and performing a well-charted role within the framework of the
country's development plan. The only risk is that it may not be able to
mobilize in time all the foreign resources on acceptable terms necessary to meet
its operational targets; this could somewhat reduce TIB's level of operation
and projected profitability. In view of TIB's past performance in mobilizing
resources, this risk is not viewed as excessive.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Tanzania Invest-
ment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Republic of
Tanzania and, the Bank, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement between the
United Republic of Tanzania and the Association (acting as Administrator of
the Special Action Account), the draft Special Action Project Agreement
between the Association (acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account)
and the Tanzania Investment Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for
development finance company operations.
53.       Special features of' the draft legal agreements are reflected in
Part III of Annex III. As a condition of effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit, the Government and TIB must enter into a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Association.



- 18 -
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and that the Special Action Credit would comply with
the criteria established by the Agreement of May 2, 1978, between the Associa-
tion and the European Economic Community.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 12, 1979



ANNEX I
- 19-                                        Page 1
TAJLE 3A
TANZANIA - VCI AL I1K1CATn tS DATA SHEEr T
TfuLt NCE Ct0ours (ADJUSTED AVLRACES
LAND AJ'A (THO'JSAND        )                  TAKMA,IA                        _- tOST RECYrT YSTD4ATY)
TOAL            945.1                                                      SAM~         SAME     NEIT HIGHER
ACRIClULTULA1     508.3                                  MUST UcrN    CEOCGiRPHIC    INCOIZ           INCOISE
1960  ilk   1970 /b ESTMAEZ lb         REGIOM /e   GROUP 2d    CROUP /
CNP 17R CAPITA (ICSS)                   70.0 /f    110.0 ff  200.0 /1           223.6       182.9       432.3
ENERCY Cf"t2HP-ION PER CAPITA
(KILOCGAMU  OF COAL ILqUtVALENT)      41.0        62.0       69.0       -      6.7        58.9        251.7
POPU.ATION A-t0 VITAL STATTSTICS
TOTAL PMULATIOu, mli-YEAR
ItILLIONS)                          9.6 lf      12.9 /1   15.5 If
RJAN PDPULATICtN (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.6            5.5        7.3             13.6        15.0         24.2
PO'IULATIONl DENSITSm
PER SQ. K1.                         10.0         14.0       16.0             18.4       46.8          2.7
lPER SQ. KS. ACRICJLTURAL LAND      20.0         26.0      30.0              53.6      254.1          95.0
POlPULATION ACE STRUCTURLE (PERCETr)
1)14 TAS.                           42.5 LL/    44.4 /h   46.7               44.4       43.6         44.9
11-64 YRS.                         55.5 /f     53.0 /h   50.9               52.7        53.3         52.8
6S TRS. A,SD ABOVE                    2.0 /f       2.6 Lb    2.4               2.8         2.9          3.0
POI'uLATiON CROtvrE RATE (PERCENT)
fXITAL                              2.3          3.0 If    2.7 If            2.6         2.4          2.7
I72JAN                               5.0          5.6        7.5 /I           5.8        4.0           8.8
CrUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.5         50.5       47.0             46.9        44.3         2.2
CRUIDE DEATH RATE ,P R THOUSASD)      27.1         23.0       20.1             20.6        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTIEO  RATE                ..          3.2        3.3              3.1         2.9          3.2
PAlfl LT P1J;S LN G   
LCCEPTORS. ANNLAL (TETOSANDS)         ..           ..         ..
ISERS (PEiCENT OP  "RLED  .EONl)   ..             ..         ..              2.5        14.6         14.2
OOD AMD NUTRITION
INDEX OF kJ000 PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               91.6        100.0     107.5              94.2       96.4        104.3
ELR CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (PERCEST OF
KEQUI!RM:ETS)                     69.0         88.0      86.0              90.1       92.3         99.5
fOTEINS (CRASS PER -AT)             42.0         U3.0      7.1              55.2       50.0         56.5
0C WEIC3 ANDLAL AND PULSE         22.0 Li      23.0      20.0              17.1       13.9         17.5
CEW_  (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..         ..               ..          ..          7.5
tRALTI
LIFE EXPECTA4C! AT BIRTH (YEARSS    3S.7          41.8       44.5             43.7        45.8         53.3-
117-AT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TuOSuSAD)                            190.0        160.0 /h      ..            138.4       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PEfCESfT Ol
POPULATION4)
TOTAL                                 .          13.0      39.0              22.4       26.4         31.1
UVtAN                                 ..         61.0      88.0              66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..          9.0      36.0              10.4        14.1        18.2
4 CESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
0S' POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 .            .       17.0              23.9        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..      88.0              70.3       65.9         69.5
RURAAL                                ..           ..       14.0             14.2         3.4        25.4
)PPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21750.()L.k 21570.0 /f20760.0 /f         21757.5    13432.7       9359.2
ff)PULATIOY rER NC1STNC PERSCN      9240.0-Okl  4890.0 If 3180.0 /f          3473.8     6;83.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL.                             570.01.,k   700.0 /E       ..            645.4     1157.6        786.5
ORRSN                                 ..           ..         ..            172.9      183.3        278.4
iURAL                                 ..           ..         ..           1292.6     1348.8       1358.4
AD]MISSIONCS PER EISPITAL BED           ..           ..         .              19.2        19.S         19.2
HOUS ING
AiERACE SIZE OF HOUSEBCLD
TOTAL                                 ..          4.4 ,h      ..              4.9         5.2
URBAN                                 *-            32 /b     ...0                        4.S
LURAL                                 ..                                      4.7         5.3
AVrERACE NLIfBER O PERSCtIS PER lOOm
TOT&L                                 ..           ..         .....
t'RSsAI4I: l.t                                     .          ...                         18           2 i
StU SAL                               ..           ..         ..
AMt"S T) ELECTliCITY (PERCERT
or DVLL! S;,!
;LR S                                    4N                                              25.9         28.3
RSlAL                                                                                     8.i         10o;



-20 -
TARLT. 2A                                             ANNEX  1
TAN7ANIA - SOCIAL IhlICATORS DATA SIFET                    Page  2
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJIUSTED AVKrAGES
TANZANIA                        - MOST RPGSET FSTIHATF.)  1
SAME         SAh1E    NEXT HIGHiER
IMST RECENT      CEOGRXPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 tb ESTLMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLKENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  24.0         35.0       57.0             52.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                16.0         28.0       46.0             37.6        45.9         67.9
SECONDART:   TOTAL                   2.0          3.0        3.0              8.0        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0        2.0              5.0         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0             ..         ..              7.2         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         47.0       53.0             43.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           20.0         19.0       20.0             22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5         28.1 A    49.0 /a           20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          2.5        2.6              3.9         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         11.0       16.0             40.1        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.3         ..              2.2         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION      -             3.0          5.0        3.0              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINDiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER.CAPITA  0.5             ..         ..              1.2         1.4          1.6
EXPLOTKENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAliDS)      4900.0 lo   5600.0ff .b6300.0 /n
TALE (PERCENT)                      37.1         36.6       36.3             32.6        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               96.0 to      91.OIth  83.1              73.3        60.7         54.1
INMSTRY (PERCENT)                    3.8          5.0         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7         43.5       42.2             42.0        39.8         37.8
KALE                                  56.9         55.7       54.3             54.8        53.3         50.3
-EMALE                                32.8         31.5       30.3             27.Z        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1 /o       1.2/f.h   1.2                1.2         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
PECEIVED BY                                                                                                _
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.5         ..             25.7        20.3         19.5
SICHEST 20 PERCEST OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           63.3         ..             55.1        45.1         48.9
WWEST 20 PERCESS OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          2.3         ..              5.8        '5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENS OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          7.8         ..             14.5        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI.KATE) ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCHB
LEVEL (USS PER CAWITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      117.0            108.8        88.5        155.9
URAL                                  ..           ..       89.0             74.1        71.9         97.9
ESTnIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      146.0            124.4       100.8        143.7
NLA.AL                                ..           ..       45.0             59.6        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENS)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       25.0             26.8        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       85.0             47.6        48.0         36.7
Not  vasilable
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    Th  adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geomtric mans, excluding the extrene
values of the indicator and the most populated country ln each group.  Cov rage of countries &wng the
indicators depends on aval ability of data nd is not uniform.
lb    Unless othervlse noted, data f,r 1IQO refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; *nd for M-.t R-cent EIcl'te, between 1973 *cd 1977.
Li    Africa Sooth of Sahars;   jd  Lov Income (5280 or Iess per c.pitt. 1976);   fe  Lover Middle Incom
($281-SSQ p-r C-poi-. 1976);  L.  H.Inl..d T.n ...n;   ft  1957;   /h  1967;   /t  1967-73;   Yj  1961-63;
fk  1962;   11  Regist.red. not all practice In the country;   /a  1958, Zdnsibar only;   /n  1972;   lo  1963.
September 197S



- 21 -
ANNEX I
DEFTNITIONIS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                                    Page 4
Notes: Although the data are draws fron sources generally judged the mcat authoritativ end reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be inter-
notiocally comparable because of the lack of standardised definitions end concepts used by different countries in collecting the date. The data are, nonetheless,
usful to deacribe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterise certain major differences between countries.
The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extrene values of the indicator and the neat
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries anong the indicatora depends on availability of data and iu not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
prop-averoges for Ctpital Surplus oil Euportera and indicators of ac..es to water and escrets dieposal, housing, imom. distribution snd poverty are
uirnple populotion-weighted geometric oeans without the excluaion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kh)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (totel,
Total - Total surface area comprieing land area and inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hoepital beds
Agiciultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specislised hospital and re-
or permanently fur crops, pasturea, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and mdi-
(IiP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or diecharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       fron hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sisz of household (persons per household) - total, urban, end rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total Population., mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger my or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                              the hoasehold for statistical purposes.  Statiatical definitions of hou.e-
'rban copulation (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urb-n areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of dcta srong countries.                                                                  bar of persons per room in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
PcpuLition denuity                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km.  - Mid-your population per square kilometer (100 hecttres)                     unotcupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, ad rural -
Pfr s   km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Pu2ulation age otruct-re (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth nates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude hirth rate (per thonan,d) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengthe of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year populotiom; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary  chool - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic av-ragea ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gons re             r      - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
apecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational sorollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           dude technical, industrial, or other programs which oporate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions
acceptoro of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary leve1s divided by numbers of teachers in the carte-
Family planning - urers (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           spending levels.
macrrid women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult liter-cy rate (percent) - Literate adults (abls   to read and write) as
de-iceo to oil married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUNPTION
Ind.. of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capito  supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplie  available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Avoilablo supplies comprise do.estic production, imports 1ess                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population, excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countrios and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mapt countries
quire-ents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
eal activity and health considering environ-ental temperature, body                    TV receivers (par thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd.
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (gras per day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest nwepaper", defined as a periodical publi-
abovo.   Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grsD6 of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal snd pulse protein, of which 10 gras should be animal protein.                Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 gras of total protein and                       sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in gras per day.                                       Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yearn, to children in this age group                                  tions in various countries are not comparable.
Feamle (percent) - FePle labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy or birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate  (per thousand) - Annual deatha of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) -  total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of ago per thou.sand live birhta.                                                 female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-see
Number of peoplo (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       structure of the populotion, amd long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
u-contaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 year.s
and sanitary wells7 as percentages of their respactiv- populationa.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located sot more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a honse nay be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
.onable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do sot have to                        of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARET GROUPS
Access to escrota disposal (percent of Population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural)  aerved by excrete                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plue   essential non-food requirements is not
ditposal may include the colloction and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human e-cceta and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty incomo level (1S$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or tho use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level less than  nse-third
Population per physician - Population divided by nuamber of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below poverty income leval (perccnt) - urban and rural -
Population  per nursing person - Population divided by namber of                             Percent of population  (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing mole and tamale graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Date Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



-22-
TAIWIZ9A7c 
t oin_Lo 0.vtlotlso 08t_ OC.
Thh   19fl~   ~ ~~AcD^ 19_  *8o                            Prollloo=l                   Potirotod                       4000000 7r= =al 720966 E CI. 7.          2977
1974   1975  1976      1977       1978        1979        1980       1985        1990        1972-77      1977-85      1955-90     5hoo  42
CFIIS  7  o   s57.9  1977 Prloe*)
Q427r                                             2773.9        2662.2    3004.7      3119.4     3364.1      3542.4      3651.1     37355.9     3921.6     4991.8      6139.9           5 0         4 1          4 7       122.2
2   Galno fran 7*..a of Coal. (117   -161.0      ~~~~~~~-207.5  -348,9   -343.7       -69.9     -116.1      -122.7      -123.5     -196.6     -215.8      -239.                                                 .3
7    roo.. Io_tlo  Itt                                216162.9     2454. 57    26455.86    2374753.2  32694.2   34126 3     32655  47 3294  5423523.4  352.4  37248  4676.0  590 .7                    4.0          4.8         90 7
4.  Import.                           1084.7      10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ill10.  895.4  939.4  751.0   8024      1,073.1     92,7.3      043.1      1814.,6    1211.7           59           70          36          2 
ort . - Vol,e                                     105'4.7'   10045         741.3       734.5      024.5       696.f3      635.7      656.1       68.4T   931.9f        1067 5          -0 2         2.5          5.1        19.4
Ilsport. - 98 adjo.tnd             893.7        803.~~~~~~~~~113-5 3  546.35  4913.71  68:1.1  496.3      30.        462.16      490.'6    616.0:       8.29.5                     -1.3          2.2         194
Oaaooooo Gap - TT   adjootad                        181.0       207.3      343.9       345.7       68.9       1166.1      565 1      33847       334.5      398 6       383.4          -                                      3.3
6.  Total  IO n    1t                                 2163.0      9186.3      24053.1     2535.0      26534.9    296166      3321.4     3149.1      3268.5     4925.2      4950. 63e                     3.8         4.2         64.3
O   7r -tant                                          40.9        162.2       75931      6493        635.7      671.9       767.1      749.        9108.     6048.4      6953.13           .0         574.9                     9.
10.  ot Ional S-i<ls                                    430.4        464 5       304.1      314.2       676.4      537.1       267.4      464.4       506.6      693.0       986.0           11           3.2         7.3         13.2
=I~    1     tavLog                                   449.9       469. ~4     252.'7      216.7      639.3       439.7      202.        433.3      456.3       630.8      9.49.9         -0 4          5.0          7.8        12 4
12.  G., t -urre   US 5                                1564.1       1866.2     2239.1      251684.4    2761.4     3542.4      43095.1    47032.6     5401.1     9899.3    1623603           179            3.7       1            12
7O.ar. of COT at 1977 ftte.)3
1-  lodoatrS                                            16.3         17.5        16.0       15.1        14.4       13.8        14.2       14.2        14.4        15.3       16.6           1 3         3.1          6.4
2.  Aarlooltor*                                         51.1         54.0       46.8        49.6        50.4       51.0        49.3       49.9        48.5       49.0        44.3           4.7         2.4          3.9
3.  booboo                                              32.7         28.5        37.2       35.4        33.3       35.2        36.-       36.9        37.3       33.7        39.1           83          5.1          4.9
1.  t99ort prIce bOOt                    ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~36.4  453  64.,2       636         76.7      100.0        91.1       91.7        94.6      132.5       7177.          27.4         3.6          6.0
2   Iport polo  I.on..                                  430   4 54.1   3 671                64.4        926 .9      1 00        4,0      124.7       132. 9       1i790     206.1   1       8 4          7 6         5 8
3.  Te1_ of 7rde                                        84.7         80.0        22.7       67.2        82.7      166.0        29.9       73.6        71.4        74.1       77 6
4.  007r_^ 8.910930  r7~9 9e (7156.4                                 7.01        74.5       82.2       82.1        6020       120.4      123.2       137.7      202.4       297.3          12.1         9.2         860
5 MPaso "n=     g   at   f/937.143                                2.621      7.143       7.414      6.379       8.7         749        821
2eLE0435 08DIATO19                                               1972 .77    1978-85    1885-90
1.  1COA                                                              4.40       4.71        4.65
2.  Import 1Thl-ity                                                  -0.22        0.73       0.77
3.L or    tio ia1   Sovioe  8.9                                      07 20       11.        15.s2
4.  4o-*8  8.9109.  S-0108  k*                                       09 0        L2.7       15.5
5.  99.o81o.1 RatIonal 90910*Rate                            -0.24        0.35       0.214
6.  Iqor/OF                                                          29.        22.3        26.1
7     _t_t/90?                                                        2.40       22.0       22.9
8   8o.oorro 0.p2809                                 7.8~     ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 16.1  7.4
SITF'05y0f                                                           1971       L975
I   Lc7or ?oroa '(IOLL)                                              5.8         6.5
2. ~1o5 A  (I cVar.)                                            8I.0      10   0
2.1   9rloollooe                                                     91.0        84.0 
2.2jodoty                                                           2.0        6.0
2.3   -..                                                             7.0        10.0
ftT6LOI 8'1901fl                                                                     00930~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 1  -080*  0*t
(ut9lIlowt  TEht111n8..                               1965/66      1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977t76    1928/79
1.  0.rron9  F.oaN.a                                    716         2357        3623        3946        3819       5230        6960       6968
O I 79. kocIol.                           9~~ ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~~~602  1927  2310  3161  3362   4279        5317       5721
2. 16.lo T  Y 88      0                                 707         2223        2783        3961        3716       44641       5592       8666
2.1 b-lrA4.l 1-Ol.ltrlon                                267          749          944       1341        1293       1759        1870       2296
3   54on SlS                                                         154         238         -15         203        609         568        302
4   F6r tL  6Ntt t.                                                   62          214        377         469        626         709       1749
3 .tolomol 8.p      r   .-.                                  196          452         362        672        1235       1277        2051
6   0.nlo    D    andlror8                              233          96         1942        2225        2253       2763        3385       5760
7   Onool   flrlt                                     ..          -760       -1196       -1863       -1581      -1326       -2308      -3729
9.  119olr  of ltho Mf.f16tl__
-8   o   -I                                       91         450          487         661        564         772        640        1634
o* tot *08960.98
Lno0-te                                        .          269          346         482        484        1336        536        1151
98.309-tar.                                    ..           35         377         719        537        -584       1112         745
06 1966 polo.. and 8977  toods 4*oa Fon-
3300 02. 1979



- 23 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1
TAN2ZANIA
Balance of Psyncoto and Entoenal Assistance
(Million US $)
1972   1973         ~~Actual             17          197      Pretininary                   Projection
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1985        1990
A.  Sorsory of Balance of Paysents
1.  Escports (inc. BFS)                                       384.3       434.6       476.0       487.0        632.1        686.3      579.3       601.6       651.4      1102.6      id89.0
2.  Iports (inc1. NFS)                                        466.1       546.8       779.8        793.8       697.1        802.4    1223.7       1018.8      1122.2      1815.9      2763.3
3.  R- -urce BaLance                                          -81.1      -112.2      -303.8      -326.8        -65.0       .116.1    -644.4       -417.2      -470.8      -713.4      -874.3
4.  Net Factor Service Ioon.                                    -5.9        -7.4        -3.2        -7.3        21.5        -18.7      -24.6       -44.0       -50.0       -96.4      -170.4
1.  Net Inter--t Paynents of which:                         3.2        11.2         8.9        -3.1       -17.9        -16.4      -11.8       -34.3       -39.3       -79.3      -142.j
(Interest on Public N & LT Loasn)                    (11.1)      (12.5)       (13.6)      (16.2)      (19.5)       (22.1)   (-21.3)    (-27.3)    (-31.8)    (-77.0)   (-147.5)
2.  Direct Investoent Insane
3.  Workers Renittance (lint                )              -9.1       -18.6       -14.1        -4.2        -3.6         -2.3       -8.8        -9.7       -10.6        -17.1       -27.6
4.  other Fact-r Service Incco-  (Net)
5.  Content Transfers (Net)                                    -4.2         5.0        45.2         92.9        55.4        116.1      100.0       108.0       116.6       171.4       251.s
6.  Balance on Cserent Accoo-t                                 9L.9      -114.6      -263.8      -241.2        -31.1        -18.7    -569.0       -353.1      -404.1      -638.4      -792.4
7.  Pr-vate Di-ect Inveern:                                     0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         8           5.0         5.4         5.7         6.1         8.6        12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                             14.0        18.6          6.5        34.9         2.9         13.9      175.0       189.0       204.1       299.9       440.7
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Diobsursenents 1/                                         109.5       113.6       161.3       249.5        122.4       177.8       166.6       167.1       200.4       1D2.3       611.6
10.  A-oetioatios 17                                           -34.2       -23.7       -18.8       -18.0       -21.9        -26.4       -26.8       -48.0       -59.3      -114.4      -204.9
11.  Net Disbur-eenets 1/                                       75.3        89.9       142.5       231.5        100.5       151.4       139.8       119.1       141.1       387.9       406.7
12.  Use of IL1F Resourcea                                       0.0         0.0        60.3         25.2        23.7         8.8        17.0        30.0        70.0       -30.0       -30.0
13.  Short-tern Capital Transactions                             7.2       -17.9         7.5        -5.1        -38.3        33.1        36.8         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
14.  Capital Transactiana, n.e-i.                               14.8        49.0        -47.4       -30.1      -L0.8         -26.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
15.  CLango in Reserves (- -  .ecro.se)                        -59.4       -25.0        94.4       -15.2       -46.9      -169.1        191.0         9.3       -17.3       -28.0       -37.0
B. Grants and Loaos Coeoitrne.t
1.  Official Gasts 2/                                           9.8        23.6        51.7        127.8       119.0      130.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                        6S.4       107.1       260.4       111.8        191.1       179.3
2.1  IBD                                                   -           -          65.0        30.0        37.0        33.0
2.2  I0DA                                                  10.8        22.6        61.2        17.0        52.0        49.2
2.3  Other Multilateral                                     3.3         1.8         7.1        18.0         5.0        11.5
2.4  Goveennents, of vh:.ch:                               42.1        82.8       127.1        93.7        85.5        61.3
Ceetrally planeod ecaosnics                        4.9         3.0        76.5         5.4         -           -
2.5  Suppliers                                                          -           -           -           -           -
2.6  Financial institutions                                 4.2         -           _           _          11.7         0.3
2.7  Bonds                                                                    -                             -           -
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.                                                       -                             -
3.  Other M & LT L.7oos (whet  ovailable) 3/                   26.4        18.6         5.6         2.9          6.0         -
C. Me-orandun Iteas
1.  Glent Elerent of Tatal CoDeitneats                         49.2        83.4        63.1        36.4        66.6         56.8
2.  Average Interest                                            3.6         0.6         2.3          3.0         2.2         3.2
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                   28.1        47.8        32.2         31.9        38.8        35.1
1/  Includes financing of projected balance of paynente deficit (L978-1990) on blend of Bank/IDA teens.                                                                          EAIDA
2/  Esclades technical aseisto-ce  grants.                                                                                                                                       June 12, 1979
3/ Represents a notional 40 p-rcent of loan -oeseitnents for FAt projects.



- 24-                                                         PAgEY
TANZANIA
Debt/and Creditwo_th_in45
Actual
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976        1977
A. M, dium and Long-ter=  Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)              441.7        557.1      728.3       917.1      1029.2      1123.4
2.  Including Undisbursed                                    835.5       987.3      1280.5      1359.0      1555.9      1649.3
3.  Public Deb: Service                                       43.3         39.3       32.4        34.1        41.6        48.4
3.1 Interest                                                   11.1        12.5        13.6        16.2       19.5        22.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                   ..          ..
S.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                        11.3          9.3        6.8         7.3         6.6         7.1
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                            2.8         2.1         1.4         1.3         1.5        1.4
3.  Public Debt Service/Governsent Revense                     14.7       10.3         6.6         6.4         7.6         7.0
C.  Taems
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                            2.5         2.2          1.9         1.8        1.9         2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                9.8         7.1        4.4          3.7         4.0        4.3
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                   23.5        20.8        20.7        31.4        17.6        2z.2
2.  Net Transfer/tmports (incl. NFS)                          16.2         16.4       18.3         29,2       14.4        18.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                          68.8         79.1       88.3        92.8        82.1        85.2
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements              16.9        19.1        10.4        21.0        14.0        17.2
2.  Pank Group Disbursments/Gross Total Disbursments    19.4              21.8        14.0        28.2        37.2        37.8
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        12.2        13.4        12.4        15.4        15.1        16.3
4. Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                   23.1         23.8       21.1        24.2        25.7        29.3
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      10.2        15.3        20.4        26.4        34.1        33.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                11.1         16.3       22.5        28.4        36.5        35.5
Outstanding December 31, 1977
Amount             Percent
(US $ Million)
F. External Debt (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                             183.3                 16.3
2.  Bank Group                                                                       328.6                 29.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                                24.9                  2.2
4.  Goverrments                                                                      722.0                 64.3
of which Centrally Planned Ec.nmles                                           314.4                28.0
5.  Suppliers                                                                         18.9                  1.7
6.  Financial Institutions                                                            15.3                  1.4
7.  Bonds                                                                              7.6                  0.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.       1/                                                       6.1                  0.5
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt-               1/                                      1123.4                100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)-                                          1649.3                146.8
G. Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1977-82/Total DOD End of 1977                 38.8%
1/  Includes Tanzanis's notional share of 40% of EAC debt.                                                                                                      EA 19DA



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MAY 31, 1979
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
Undis-
No.          Year  Borrower             Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/  bursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                  70.2            90.8
586-TA    1969  Tanzania  Roads                                 7.0                    1.4
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                      10.8    1.5
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Education                                            10.3    2.6
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                            18.5    3.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                               17.5   10.4
460-TA     1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                             6.0    0.6
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                            21.0                     4.2
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                    8.5    2.5
507-TA.   1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                  10.2    3.8
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                    10.0    6.2
1041-TA.    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                9.0                     1.4
580-TA.    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                               10.0    6.6
1128-TA.    1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.0                    3.0
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           15.0                     1.8
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                  6.0    3.7
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                               18.0   12.0
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Education                                            11.0    8.2
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  fower                                       30.0             17.3
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  F'orestry                             7.0                     5.0
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                             9.0    8.4
658-TiA    1976  Tanzania  l'obacco Processing                                  8.0    1.8
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                   15.0                    14.0
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                 11.5              6.6
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                           6.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                            7.2    6.0
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                            12.0   11.8
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                             15.0   11.5
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           15.0                    11.5
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                     27.5   20.6
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                     14.0   14.0
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                        12.0   11.4
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                     25.0                    25.0
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  !>lorogoro Textile                                   20.0   20.0
860-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                               14.0   14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                      12.0   12.0
875-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                               30.0   30.0
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  'Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.0                    30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Hignway                                        20.5   20.5
Total                                                       240.7  41.5   428.8  371.2
of which has been repaid                                5.9      -      7.3
Total now outstanding                                 234.8  41.5   421.5
Amount sold                            0.1
of which has been repaid            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                           234.8  41.5   421.5
Total undisbursed                                           103.7  23.9   243.6  371.2
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 26
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZMNIA AND UGANDA AS OF MAy 31, 1979
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.6
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.7
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 5.2
1204-EA  1976    EADB           Development Finance 15.0                7.8
Total                                           244.8              15.2
of which has been repaid                      50.0
Total now'outstanding                           194.8
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4              0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       194.8
Total undisbursed                                15.2              15.2
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of May 31, 1979)
There are currently 34 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAIL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA -- Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972;  Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey, additional planting has been carried out and effective rehabilitation
and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba area. Bank recommenda-
tions regarding crop yields, husbandry techniques, field organization, TTA
structure and extension activities are being implemented. Furthermore, market
trends in texa have taken a favorable turn. In general, progress on the
project is improving. The closing date was postponed to allow sufficient time
for completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
lhis project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of th,e meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLIC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory firtancial situation. The most serious issue is the
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they dlo not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
A'NEX II
Page 4 of 17
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue of
equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and require continued attention. The closing date of the
Credit may have to be postponed by 12 months in order to complete the ranch
development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agripultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began.  Project problems remaining are   the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery
has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) is experiencing difficulties
in recruiting factory staff and training candidates. CATA take over of the
industrv and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly and its
management capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government s
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project includes
provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the development of
CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close attention.



_ 29 -
AN 7 EX TT
Page 5 of 1/
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Eroject implementation and disbursements remain well behind appraisal
estimates. During the past six months, progress has been slow due to continued
weak management at both the regional and district levels, the loss of signifi-
cant numbers of trained agricultural and cooperatives staff as a result of
their appointment as Village Managers, and the outbreak of cholera in two of
the region's three districts. To allow for a period of consolidation of
project maniagement, only four additional villages are to be included in the
investment program for the next fiscal year, bringing the total number of
project villages to 61. A joint Government/Bank Group midterm evaluation of
the project was conducted in late October 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate, cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's ('KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane-yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production and the opera-
tion of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses (mainly
because Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions
vacated by expatriates).  After heavy losses in 1977, mostly due to difficul-
ties in starting operations of the new factory, KSC is now nearing the break-
even point. Phase III of the Sugar Study has been started and should be
completed shortly. With regard to the Sugar Development Corporation's
request to Treasury to consider KSC's proposals as to its debt-equity ratio,
the Treasury has decided to provide KSC TSih. 100 million as equity and
TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish sources.  The loan will be at an
interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years repayment including 5 years of grace.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under preparation and is expected to be
signed by the Treasury soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project appears to be progressing at a slower pace than antici-
pated and fishing operations are now expected to begin by mid-1979. Eight
vessels for the coastal commercial centers are already under construction,
and procurement of engines and fishing gear is in progress.  Tender documents



- 30 -
ANN X II
Page 6 of 17
for the procurement of steel boats for the Kigoma Commerc4al Center are be:ng
finalized. The recent outbreaksof cholera at Lake :angan ika have caused -
setback in Project activities on the Lake, particularlv t-.e Ujamaa Village
Program, and steps have been taken to speed up the identification s  suita'Ie
villages and the preparation of investment plans.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project:  USS18.0 mil'ion
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May _3,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with rez,rd
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentra:ion of -igh pot=n-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems wh'ch must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective.  Follcving a m iterm re-
view of the project, the Government submitted in Seotember 1978 a craft prc:osal
for a three year Intensification Phase, extending the pro'ect peri-d from
July 1979 to June 1982. A draft Credit Agreement has been prepared and dis-
cussed by the Association and BADEA, the co-financier. We expect to obtai-
Treasury clearance of the amendments to the Credit Agreement soon.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project:  :S$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effec:iveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be success-
fully implemented and the milk processing expansion is almost completed.  h-_e
loan security/occupancy rights problems have been resolved for most- farms. A
shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk pasteurizing facilities at Mbe-a
are imminent problems.  The Ujamaa component proceeds slowly and the Tanza:-'a
Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative means of assis:-
ing village milk production and consumption. The foot and mouth disease
control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestrv Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, project im-lementa-
tion has improved considerably and is now more or less on schedule. The
nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current olantin- progra=
should be on schedule. Progress on fire protection, road construction and
buildings is satisfactory.  All posts are now filled and management has
been reinforced. There are no serious procurement or dis'bursement prob-
lems, although both are still slightly behind schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA -- Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - Februarv 15,
1'977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 20-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the 1978/79 sea-
son to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Mlorogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily.  TATjTTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are awaited
from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsibilities
of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high bank
overdrafts.  The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TSh. 29 million to TAT for
local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition, TAT has also
claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost incurred by them
during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been audited and the report
is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of MLay 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although delays have been experienced in some components such as
delivery of supplies, equipment and vehicles, and shortage8of skilled staff
for certain technical posts, overall project performance is satisfactory.
Good progress has been made in the establishment of village trials, devel-
opment of livestock infrastructure (dips and veterinary centers) in three
villages, and establishment of 150 ha. of fuelwood plantation and prepara-
tion of an additional 170 ha.  The Water Master Plan is almost complete and
the land uise planning team is fully operational. Disbursements are up to
appraisal estimates.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. As the Cashewnut
Authority's (CATA) current budget have not included funds for this second
phase, a request will be made to the Treasury to allocate the necessary
fund.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
This credit became effective on January 5, 1979. The Transport
Officer, Systems Accountant and Building Engineer are in post. Three of
the five Regional Accountants have been identified and advertisement for
the other 2 has been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.O million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness - March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on March 5, 1979. While some of
the Senior support staff have been recruited a number of key posts remains to
be filled. Evaluation of bids for vehicles had been completed. The Central
Tender Board's recommendation regarding the bids is expected to be forwarded
to the Bank shortly.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 23, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
91%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed bv 18 months to December 31, 1979. Total project cost is now
estimated at about TSh. 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the
appraisal estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any
financial problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community
Education Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village
development, education and training for youth and adults.  The two Vo.ational
Training Centers are in operation at almost full capacitv. The technical
assistance and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching
funds disbursed.  Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship
component of the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.



-3 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - Mlarch 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvements.  Housing construction is in line with VMIT training
which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment of over
500 VUITs as Village MIanagers in January 1978. There were also delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly..  Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no fi nancial problems are envisaged at present.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit is not yet effective.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ US$6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher t:han estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
1/   The Second Highiway P'roject included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
miLlion. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated
to the Third li ghway Project, and the Closin, Date was postponed to
D,ember 31, 1978.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equiva-
lent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1979. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies.  Funds available under Credit
265-TA have been fully disbursed and all remaining funds under Cr. 586-TA
have been committed; final disbursements are expected shortly.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
After a slow start due mainly to delays in arrar: ing technical
assistance, project implementation is now improving.  Twelve of the 21
local staff positions are filled and virtually all expatriate exper:s will
have local counterparts to train.  Equipment valued at abcjt US$5.25 million
has been procured to date.  Road camps have been built and equipner: deployed.
Rehabilitation, regravelling and routine maintenance activities have improved
in both quality and quantity. The project may, however, nr.t be cozzleted
by the present closing date of June 30, 1979; this date wi;l therefore need
to be postponed.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well.  In.tial prc.ress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, wit:- 16 peo-le in post
or approved and recruitment of another 10 well underway. Some dif-ficulty is
being experienced in finding adequate housing for both ex7-triate a-d local
staff but the 'Minister for Communications and Transport is trying :o address
this problem. The Government has not vet submitted its p: n for i=c,roving the
supply and distribution of vehicle spare parts. Planning for the _ata col-
lection system is well in hand and a study is proposed to _efine t:le role and
objectives of the National Institute of Transport (NIT) a-. the ty-e and
number of courses it should provide.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project: US$3 ..5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing rate - December 31, 196-
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA -- National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
Oc:tober 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
95% complete. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have been
tendered; the rest of the cormmunity facilities in the project are to be ten-
dered soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the Tanzania
Housing Banlk is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is estimated
(at current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the appraisal esti-
mate of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents. Preparation of the small scale industry component is also making
satisfactory progress. All project staff have now been appointed. The Con-
sultants' report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by
the Government in January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost
recovery proposed in the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA -- Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
(,losing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, one
is practically completed, two are in progress, one was awarded in December
1978 and one is expected to be awarded soon. The project is expected to
be in operation in November/December 1980, 18 months behind schedule.  The
establishment and operation of an Urban W4ater Supply Fund within the 'lin-
istry of Water, Energy and Mlinerals is about two years behind schedule. The
project cost is currently estimated at TSh. 263 million, a 65% increase over
the appraisal estimate of TSh.160 million.  About 85% of this increase is
due to the high price of the Mindu Dam contract. Progress in project imple-
mentation will have to be closely watched and the expected large project cost
overruns reviewed in detail during the next supervision mission.



- 36 7
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981'
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. Current estimated project cost is US$117 million compared
to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost overrun of 31%. The foreign
exchange gap in IBRD/SIDA-financed portion is about US$14.1 million. SIDA
has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its allocation to cover
its proportionate share of the cost overruns (about US$6 million). Plans
to make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap will have
to be discussed and reviewed by mid-1979.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds fromn a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan was committed to the amount of US$12.0 million. Commit-
ments are proceeding ahead of schedule and the loan is likely to be fully
committed within the nextfew months.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project impiementation performance has been acceptable. There
has been a deterioration in the operating performance of the existing Mwanza
plant as well as some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation
(TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to in-
stitute an immediate action program to improve the operating performance of
existing mills.  All processing machineries have been commissioned except
for one but this is now in Dar es Salaam and installation is expected to be
completed soon.
Credit No. 601-TA -- Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of May 31, 1978wereUS$2.1 million of which
US$1.7 million, US$0.3 million and US$0.1 million were for consultancy ser-
vices, trainaing and project uLnit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals havie recently been streamlined and it is expected
that the pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased as a
result.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial. Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. The canvas mill is scheduled to be commissioned
in June 1981.  Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher than
those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
]L978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7. 1979.



- 38 -                     AN'X II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMNUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaa:;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a li-hterage quay in
Tanga. Constructioln of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locallv financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa.  General cargo throughout
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
both countries is competent. Some US$34.2 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisDursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on Januarv 12, 19 3,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development PrograLm, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a realloc:ation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:  US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procure-
ment caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation
of headquarters. At February 28, 1979, about US$27.1 million of the loan
had been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October
1977 among the countries concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank:  US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June .30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$7.2 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to US$3.0
million.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D.  STATEMENT' OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MAY 31, 1979
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing   3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap              Soap Manufacture  1.37    0.40    1.77
Total gross commitments                    5.33    1.10    6.43
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           1.37    0.40    1.77
Total Undisbursed                          1.37    0.40    1.77



- 42 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
FOURTH TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                Not applicable
(b)  Preparation by:                               Not applicable
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:                  April 1978
(d)  First Bank mission:                           May 1978
(e)  Appraisal Mission departure:                  October 18, 1978
(f)  Negotiations:                                 June 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                October 1979
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
NONE.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Unless otherwise agreed TIB's debt to equity ratio would
not exceed 3:1 (para. 47);
(b) As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Special
Action Credit, the Government and TIB must enter into a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association
(para. 51);
(c) TIB would seek prior approval of all subprojects in excess
of US$1.0 million from the loan and Special Action Credit
and aggregate approvals under this free limit would not be
in excess of US$8.0 million from the loan or in excess of
US$5 million from the Special Action Credit (para. 52).



