Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7042
.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
BUGESERA EAST, GISAKA/MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 668-RW)
December 11, 1987
.
Afeica Regional Office
This document bas a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Rwandese F (RwF)
US$1.00           =    RwF 92.84
RwF 100           -    US$1.08
This exchange rate prevailed throughout the project
implementation period.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDR      Association Internationale de Developpement Rural
BADEA     Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BGM       Bugesera East, Gisaka/Migongo Project
CFZV      Centre de Formation Zootechnique et Veterinaire de
Rubilizi
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IAMSEA    Institut africain et malgache de Statistiques
economiques appliquees
IEMVT     Institut d'elevage et de medecine veterinaire des Pays
tropicaux
ISAR      Institut des Sciences agronomiques du Rwanda
OBM       Office de Bugesera Mayaga
OVAPAM    Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du
Mutara
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
OPROVIA   Office National pour le Developpement et la
Commercialisation des produits vivriers et productions
animales (Development and Marketing organization)
PAV       Poste Agro Veterinaire
PCC       Project Coordination Committee
PCR       Project Completion Report
PPAM      Project Performance Audit Memorandum
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SSS       Service des Semences silectionniee  (Selected Seed
Service)
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
WHO       World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Rwanda : January 1 to December 31



FME ONU L L   OLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasetoee. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
MC* dw OWctM4ma
i~ ~
Opeae.m Ivabamiuw
December 11, 1987
MDOR^ANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AMD THM PRMSIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Rendas lugeuers E.tI
Oicuka-Migongo Mixed rarming and Rural Development Project
(Credlt 668-RW)
Attached. for Lnformatlon, La a copy of the report entltled
Oproject Completion Reports Rwanda Buggier. east/Gleaka-Migongo Mlxed
farming and Rural Deielopment Project (Credit 668-RW) I prepared by
the Africa RegLonal OffLce. further evaluation of thli project by the
Operation* Evaluation Department ha not been made.
Attachment
This document has a resuitod ditributlo and may be used by eciplents io    the pOrfopufmam
of their ofimcial dute Its contents may not otherwis be disclod without World l1hk autoutioon. 



FOR OF0CIAL US ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AWANDA
BUGESERA EAST, GISAKA/MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 668-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...................................*....*..*********          i
Basic Data She-t ......... .     ..............................****    i4
Evaluation S-mary ....          ..................................  iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Background ............      .............................   1
II.   Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal ..    3
III.   Project Implemontation        .............................  7
IV.   Project Impact .....................................   20
V.   Project Bonefits         ................................ .   28
VI.   Institutional Performance and Development ..........   29
VII.   Bank Performance .........        ..........................   54
VIII.   Conclusions and Outstanding Issues  .................   60
Annex It Project Cost Data            .................................   37
Annex 2:  Ts-ts* Eradication in the Gisaka/Migongo Region ...   47
Annex 3:  Summary of Key Indicators           .........................   51
Annex 4:  Appraisal Estimates and Actual Disbursements  ......    54
Annex 5:  Assumptions for Calculations of Prod. Increase ....   57
Annez 6:  Economic Benefits         .................................  61
Chart lt Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry ...   65
Chart 2:  Project Organization Chart ........        ................   66
Maps:  IBRD Nos.  16408
15961
19475(PCR)
19454(PCR)
19474(PCR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authozation.



PROJECT CQMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
BUGESERA EAST, GISAKA/MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 668-RW)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bugesera East,
Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural Development Project in Rwanda, for
which Credit 668-RW, for US$14.0 million, was approved in December 1976.
The credit was fully disbursed in November 1982; the original closing date
was September 30, 1982.
The PCR was prepared by staff of the Eastern Africa Regional
Office, now a part of the Africa Regional Office, and a consultant, on the
basis of a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 1222-RW dated
November 17, 1976, the President's Report, the Credit Agreement and
project files, and interviews with Bank staff associated with the project
and Borrower representatives, and a specific mission to review the project
experience. It was specifically reviewed in conjunction with appraisal of
the follow-on project (BGM II, approved in July 1982).
The PCR wao submitted to OED on December 19, 1985. The report was
not selected for audit by vED.   The  draft report was sent to the Borrower
for comments on October 2, 1987; however, no comments were received.
The valuable assistance provided during the preparation of this
report by Borrower representatives and Bank staff interviewed is gratefully
acknowledged.



=1s A 3S?A  G!8&AJIMOO    KIM  PAM
AM  IIIL DhVLO      T FDJW
(Ctrit 868-Mi)
BASIC DATA 31
ZT PRoJZCT DATA                                Appraea1    Actal or                 Actual as I of
Xtat_t       rAztI Actua              rLlm  r,tmt
Total project coest  (US$ mdllon)               a 13             a7.a                    Io
IDA Credit AmOunt (US$ mllio0)                 14 0 1/          14.0                      100
Date Physical Componente Completod              12/3171i         12/31/82                  120
Proportion then completed (2)                   100              50-60                     50-60
Econouic Rate of UAturn (2)                     32   2/          5                         13-20
xastitutional Performance                                        Fair
Technical Perfotinte                                             Mid
Number of Direct 5"nficierieo (77-82)           150,000          200,000                   133
Date of Board Approvl                                            12/14/76
Date of Credit Zffectivee                       06/30177         11/23/77
Closing Date                                    09/30/82         09/30/82
CUIEI.ATIV  DISSWUUSUS                      FY77      na        nT79     n80O    FT81       m2       FT83
Appraieal  etimteo  (US$ mllion)             0.5        2.0      *.0      7.0      11.0     13.5     14.0  (by 09/30/62)
Actual (US$ million)                         -          0.83     3.73     7.24    11.41    13.45    14.0  (by 11/31/82)
ACt"al As 2 nf Vtete                                   41        94       103     104       99.6     100
SIS WAO DATA
Sent         Ibth    fi. of   Speciealtetion         san  trformancoe             Typs of
It_T-                                       Pereone   rpratented        VeeiS    ratios        Tr!  d    Ipbl_ 
3/                      LI           2/          6
Identifieation    HQ/RNZA    07/74            4      A, C, L            6.0
Preparation       HQ/RMEA    0-49/74          1       2A,  . L, A       9.0
gm1        04/73            1      A                  0.9
Appr: val         IQ/R(ZA    05/73             3      A, L, b            6.9
Post V~praieal    HQ          11/75            1     A,9                 1.
HQ         05/76                                      1.0
26.8
Supervlston I     ram         03/77            1      A                    1        2            -          0
-  2      -           6/77            i      A                  0.3        -             --
*      3                0 10/77          1      A                  0.9        -                       O
-  4                 Ot0/78           I      A                  0.7        1             1         0
5      '         08/78            1      A                  1.4         1            2       I P
-  6       -         12/75-06/79 /74         A, n, PA,          3.2        2             2       NV
-                    0-/7             2      A.1                3.4        2            2        MV
a-         8 ~       03/60            1      a                  1.8        ---
-       -         ~~~~~~06/SO      2      A.9                1.4          2             2       TN
-     109                11-12/60        2      A,S                2.8        2             2       T 1
-  103/1                              2      A,a                4.0        2             3       N T
-  11   *         ~~~~~05/82       1      A                  09         2             2       N T
Total                                                                  A.
Compietion        mm          01-02/83         2      L. a               5.0
TOTAL                                                                   53.6
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                 Government of Ruwnda
Executing Agency         Niniotry of Agriculture, LiUvtock   d Forestry (through project unit)
Follow-on Project        Bugesera/Gieaka-NiSono Rural Services - Phaae tX  (SQ  XI)
Credit Number            1283-31
Amount (US$ milliOn)     US$16.3 million
*                 Credit Agreement Data    Septmber 28, 1982
-~~~~__                          *.                                     -~. m.                              
*ep.eImi       4.4  £6.1   8.5                                              -      -     - 3.
"10618eIe                   14.1        -         -     -      -     -      -      -     -   U.3
"W    e          -     -    3.8   1.3   1.6  3.0   IS         .6   3.8   U.    3.3   R.6  I.I
ew               -     -   6.2   8.                                                -           .
T_I           a.4  10.1  21.$   3. U.   u.      . S.   1 .s   Me    u.s  18.8   u.s   2.*  Ue.
I/   Cofinetcing tnitially involved Kingdos of Se4gium (U$ million n.9) and SADIA
(US6 million 3.0)
2/   Calculated on directly productive elemnt  only.
P    A - agronodit; L - Liv.otock Specialiet; VA - Financial Analyst; C - Agricultural conomsit
*/   1 - problm  free or minor problsm; 2 - mderate problem; 3 * major problae
T    I   Improving; 2 * stationary; 3   Deteriorating
TI     * Financial; N   W Managerial; T - Technical; 0 - other
1   Several  icione spread over 6 mthe - evrap.
Oi ne repert c ring twe tee  ieeloe.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
BUGESERA EAST, GISAKA/HIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 668-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Bugesera East, Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural Develop-
ment Project was IDA's third agricultural operation in Rwanda. The project
was identified in conjunction with discussions of the 1974 economic report,
which focused on the need for integrated rural development programs to spur
economic d-velopment. It was prepared jointly by IDA missions and govern-
ment staff. A combined preparation/appraisal effort was launched in May
1975 and was followed by a series of post-appraisal discussions on project
dasign, and  particularly  implementation  arrangements.    The  Credit was
approved in December 1976 and signed in March 1977; a PPF advance was
provided for start-up work.
Oblectives
The project was designed to support a broad range of development
activities in southeastern Rwanda, building on the foundation of prior
development schemes in the area.   Dual objectives were to develop sparsely
populated areas opened up by tsetse eradication and to build rural services
and infrastructure in a wider  area.    Explicit project objectives were to
work through existing government institutions, including local government
entities, and to foster training of project staff and farmers. Incremental
crop production was estimated at about 25,000 tons in year 10, plus signif-
icant increases in milk and beef  production.   The economic rate of return
was estimated at about 322 on production-related components. There was
specific recognition  that  this  ws  an  operation  entailing substantial
risks, given institutional weaknesses in the agricultural sector in Rwanda.
The project was noteworthy in its focus on a strong annual planning tool
and the explicit recognition that the program would be modified in line
with experience gained.
Implementation Experience
The implementation record was mixed. The protracted preparation/
appraisal process involved successive  discussions  of key issues to ensure
full government commitment to the project. The delays were well worthwhile
and led to a good dialogue on important policy and institutional issues.
It is striking that the project was implemented roughly on schedule, with
disbursements in line with  estimates.    Project  management was smooth in
many respects, down to timely  submission  of reports and audited accounts.



- iv -
There were, however, some fundamental problems. Instead of a small manage-
ment apparatus, relying essentially on existing services, closely linked to
local authorities (as desired and planned by IDA and the Government), a
large, autonomous project unit emerged, and little effort was made to
involve local authorities and cooperatives in management. Much more was
spent on infrastructure and equipment than planned, with very limited cost
recovery. The flexibility built into the project through the annual plan-
ning mechanism was indeed essential, as policies and general circumstances
changed markedly over the implementation period, but neither the Government
nor IDA used the tools well to ensure that basic objectives and principles
were adhered to along the way.   The  result was that, at the close of wh.at
was always seen as the first phase of a long-term program, both the Govern-
ment and IDA came face to face with serious problems on where to go next,
because the level of development and related operating costs was plainly
neither sustainable with Rwanda's  financial resources nor replicable else-
where in Rwanda on any significant scale. The result was a painful pruning
process; this can be seen as the practical start of an important policy
change in Rwanda, away from area-based, integrated rural development proj-
ects, implemented with relative autonomy (like this project), towards a
more clearly articulated national framework for developing services and
investments for agriculture.
Cofinancing arrangements which changed sub)stantially complicated
the task of implementation.   Apart from heightening uncertainties on plans
and management arrangements, the need to revamp the financing plan required
heavy inputs by project, government, and IDA staff during the initial
start-up period, when attention to basic issues of institutional design and
plans was most needed.   Difficulties in working out clear responsibilities
within the project management team heightened tensions between expatriate
and local managers and within the technical assistance team. Excessive
administrative centralization, poor extension-research linkages, and uncer-
tain input supply services were  other  problems.  In contrast, substantial
training efforts were undertaken and will have lasting benefits.
Results
There were important achievements, though well short of appraisal
estimates, in terms of agricultural and livestock production, institutional
development, and economic returns. Infrastructure development was substan-
tial and generally impressive, although less than planned, notably for
roads. There were, however, the problems with inappropriate design and
poor quality construction. The poor record of project ranches and cattle
marketing helped convince the Government that extensive beef production has
poor prospects in  Rwanda.    The  cow  stall-feeding (fermette) system was
adopted slowly, but is picking up now and opens the way for important and
very beneficial changes  in  farming  systems.    While  crop and livestock
extension activities started slowly and not systematically enough, success-
ful project activities included  erosion  control, distribution of forestry
and fruit tree seedlings, and rapid development of vegetable production.
Agricultural credit, marketing and input efforts were disappointing because
of management and technical shortcomings and be-ause of insufficient atten-



tlon to cost recovery.  Increments  in production were too small to justify
project costs. Many unit costs were higher than expected (materials and
equipment, local salaries, and  farm  inputs).    Actual project costs were
US$25 million or 116S of appraisal estimates and government financing was
higher than anticipated. The economic rate of return estimated at project
completion is 5Z. This must be qualified, however, as the project was the
vital first step in a long-term program whose results are not fully known.
The BGM I and II projects viewed together may have a better rate of returr
then the first taken alone.
Sustainabilitv
The project experience leaves numerous issues for the follow-up
BGM II project to deal with.    Many are addressed in that project's design
(lower costs, less staff, more decentralized focus on extension and
research).    Some  problems,  however,  continued  into  the  second-phase
project, including:    (i)  over-designed  infrastructure  relative  to the
region's productive capacity, resulting in poorly operated end maintained
structures; (ii) an unsustainable project management structure, including a
large staff end excessively high operating costaS (iii) a work program
which relies too much on central project management with very little feed-
back from producers; (iv) insufficient analysis and knowledge of local
farming end social constraints; end (v) a lack of agricultural research
backup. It has become too clear, in the course of implementation of BGM
11, that special efforts were needed to simplify design, to tailor agricul-
tural se*rices to specific environment end farming needs, and to streamline
organization and mAnagement. These efforts are presently underway.
Findinzs and Lessons
The project experience suggests several lessons, which are of
particular interest because many are common to area-based integrated rural
development projects:
(a) The appraisal V=ocess was protracted and involved a series of
missions and discussions with the Government. The primary objec-
tive of this process, which was deliberately planned, was to
ensure full government cowuitment to the project and to await
government  decisions  on   key   issues,  notably  implementation
arrangements. The process worked quite well in focusing policy
makers' attention on the project (paras. 2.04-2.18) and in over-
coming problems from insufficient government involvement earlier
(see (h) below);
(b) The project was designed with considerable flexibility; annual
mlplementation plans were to be  agreed upon by the Government and
IDA, and it was expected that these would reflect experience
gained and depart substantially from appraisal estimates. The
system showed great promise, but did not work as well as it should
have because of insufficient  attention  to it from the Government
and IDA. Special efforts were called for to ensure that key proj-



- vi -
ect objectives remained constantly in view and to test continually
the sustainability of  actions  undertaken  (paras. 2.24, 6.03 and
7.04);
(c) This was one of the Region's first instances of use of the Proiect
Preparation Facility. It proved a lightly effective way to speed
start-up and sustain momentum between appraisal and implementation
(paras. 2.14, 3.02). A PPF also smoothed the transition between
the first and second projects (para. 8.01);
(d) Even though the project was conceived as an integrated development
project, it included too many components. Non-agricultural activ-
ities should have been postponed or assigned to other institu-
tions. This would have allowed project staff, who came under the
Ministry of Agriculture, to concentrate on agriculture and live-
stock  development  activities  (the  project's  chief  objective)
rather than on other areas (paras. 2.18, 7.04);
(e)  Co-financing arrangements  came  unstuck  after  approval  and the
resulting uncertainties  and  changes  seriously perturbed project
implementation.  Coordination arrangements  for  the key work pro-
gram exercise were not worked  out in sufficient detail.  Numerous
co-financier meetings during implementation monopolized time and
attention of project and supervision staff (paras. 3.03-3.06);
(f) A more thorough and realistic assessment at appraisal of recurrent
costs and mechanisms for cost recovery, including analysis of
prospects for sustainability of activities and services, might
have brought home the vital importance of these issues earlier.
More specific policy agreements should have been negotiated and
applied. Notwithstanding, these issues need to be addressed pri-
marily in the context of a broader sector dialogue between the
Government and the Bank, which had hardly gotten underway when
this project was designed, but is now far advanced (paras. 3.40,
7 06);
(g) Key decisions on the institutional framework for a project must
plainly be made by the Government (as was indeed the case in this
project), but with special attention to financial sustainability
issues.   Appraisal  agreements  called  for  reliance on existing
institutions and farmers' groups but this objective was largely
forgotten. The project unit became a large autonomous bureaucracy
seen as a foreign providential source of finance by local
authorities (paras. 2.07, 2.12, 3.11-3.12, 8.03);
(h)  The lack of  sustained  Rwanlese  official  involvement in proiect
identification and preparation posed serious problems of govern-
ment commitment and placed too much  onus on Bank missions to pro-
pose specific project ideas. This is an appropriate area for the
Bank to insist on full government involvement (paras. 2.02, 2.18,
7.02);



- vii -
(i) The technical data base for this project was weak, and even avail-
able documentation (maps, descriptive reports, statistics) were
not fully  communicated  to  project  staff.    More  attention to
specific arrangements for plugging information gaps was needed;
(j) Although supervision time spent was, as anticipated, relatively
high, substantial time went to resolving cofinancing problems, and
the conclusion is that more intensive supervision, wvll timed and
including a wider mix of expertise, would have been beneficial.
The experience demonstrates clearly that a flexible project design
calls for greater inputs by IDA and the Government during imple-
mentation. Areas where more supervision could have helped were:
problems of agricultural extension, training, monitoring and eval-
uation, cost  recovery,  and  input  supply.   Project supervision
experience could have heen used earlier as a springboard to a
broad-based sector dialogue in many areas (paras. 7.05-7.06);
(k) Technical assistance was critical, but arrangements posed impor-
tant problems.   This  experience  underscores the difficulties in
using technical assistance well.   Expatriate technical assistants
are rarely well accepted in managerial positions and the record of
training and motivating local staff was disappointing. They were
often underutilized when assigned as local manager counterparts or
advisors. One conclusion is that frequent short-term consultan-
ciaS seem preferable  to  permanent  expatriate  positions in many
instances. Much effort was fruitlessly expended in sorting out
responsibilities within the  project  management  team.   Lines of
command and terms of reference for staff at all levels need to be
clearly defined at the outset and clearly communicated to individ-
uals. Vigorous follow-up is also needed (paras. 3.05, 3.08-3.09).
An important achievement was that at project completion Rwandese
staff held all project management positions (para. 8.02);
(1) Attention to extension systems and research-extension linkages was
insufficient. Specific attention to linkages with agricultural
research are critical for a project like this whose success
depends on strong extension themes adapted to the area in ques-
tion. The preferred solution is to rely on a solid national
research program, but in a case like this (the national research
was on a rapidly descending slope during implementation), a well
designed research component is essential (paras. 3.21, 8.03);
(m)  The tsetse eradication component  was  problematic and its outcome
generally disappointing,  pointing  to  the  need  for  a regional
(i.e., international) approach to the problem and special atten-
tion to environmental implications (para. 3.17, Annex 2). In
contrast, the  experience with  soil  erosion  control  and rural
a afforestation gives some grounds for optimism that progress can be
achieved (paras. 3.30, 4.05, 5.04).



RWANDA
BUGESERA EAST/GISAKA-MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 668-RW)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I,   BACKGROUND
1.01    The Bugesera Gisaka/Migongo Project experience was heavily colored
by Rwanda's physical and economic situation. Rwanda's small size (26,000
km2), dense population (which increased from 160 inhabitants per km2 in
1973 to 210 in 1983), heavy preponderence of rural population (95%), and
poverty (per capita income now estimated at US$ 210) posed particularly
difficult development challenges. At the time the project was identified
and prepared there was deep concern, within the Government and the Bank,
about the tight grip of poverty, and gloom about medium and long-term
development prospects. This was a period when Rwanda's physical isolation
was accentuated by enormous transportation difficulties through Uganda.
The inexorable pressure of population on scarce land resources had emerged
as the number one development problem.
1.02    Agriculture contributed 65% of GDP and 65% of export earnings in
1973 (respectively 46% and 79% after 1980). Cultivated land represented
about 38% of the total area with 33% of the land covered with natural
pasture. Some 95% of cultivated land was allocated to food crops and the
remainder to marketable crops, mainly for export (coffee, tea and
pyrethrum). Although Rwanda produced most of its food requirements in
normal years, food imports to satisfy urban demand weighed quite heavily
on the balance of payments (13% of total import volume in 1972).
Production and farming systems throughout Rwanda (including the project
area) have changed little over the life of the project. These were (and
still are) based on small family holdings, averaging about one hectare,
often scattered over several small plots, there are virtually no large
farms.   Farm size varies according to natural conditions, with the
largest units generally located in the less productive areas. Farm labor
is provided almost exclusively by family members. Average rural family
earnings are estimated at less than US$ 70 per year, with about 25% in
cash. On-farm production is remarkably diversified, with a wide variety
of crops cultivated for family consumption or for sale, either as pure
crops or in complex crop associations.  Agricultural activities are often
complemented with livestock raising, bee-keeping, fishing and other local
activities.
1.03    Performance of the agricultural sector during the years
preceeding the project was uneven, with an average rate of growth of
agricqltural value added estimated at 3.2% a year during the period
196971974. This kept pace with the 3% or more yearly increase in
population. Public services such as agricultural extension, rural
infrastructure, and social services were generally very limited in rural



-2-
areas. Rwanda's second development plan, under preparation in 1974,
devoted much attention to rural development. This was supported by the
Bank which stressed, in its 1974 economic report, that a nationwide rural
development effort was needed, guided by central Government ministries.
The report specifically recommended decentralization of decision-making to
local levels in order to involve farmers in the development effort.
1.04    The Bugesera East/Gisaka-Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project (known as the BGM Project) was the third IDA credit
for agriculture and rural development in Rwanda. A USS 3.8 million credit
(Cr 439-RW) had been approved in 1973 for livestock development and
population settlement in the Mutara area ir. the north-east. This project
faced difficult implementation problems, which were at their height at the
time the BGM project was being prepared. A Cinchona Development Project
(Cr. 656-RW for US$ 1.8 million) was approved in 1976; it had had a long
and protracted history, as it was initially designed to support coffee and
tea. It was approved immediately prior to the BGM project. At present,
total IDA lending for agriculture in Rwanda, since its inception, stands
at US$ 91.4 million.  Projects approved after the BGM project include: (i)
a follow on project in the Mutara area (Credit 937-RW for USS 8.8 million
approved in 1979), (ii) the second phase Bugesera and Gisaka-Migongo
project (Credit 1283-RW for US$ 16.5 million approved in 1983); (iii) an
.ntegrated forestry/livestock project (Credit 1039-RW for US$ 21 million
approved in 1981); (iv) the Lake Kivu Coffee and Food Crops Project (Cr.
'126-RW for US$ 15.0 million, approved in 1981), and (v) a national
agricultural research project (Cr.1546-RW for USS 11.5 million, signed in
early 1985). The Gitarama/Ministry of Agriculture Institutional
Development Project is at negotiation stage.
1.05    The BGM project area includes two quite distinct zones: the
eastern part of the Bugesera region, about 65,000 ha south of Kigali, and
the Gisaka-Migongo region in Kibungo prefecture in south-eastern
Rwanda, with an area of about 170,000 ha (see map). These two zones are
part of the eastern lowlands of Rwanda (less than 1,500m elevation on
average) and have relatively low rainfall (less than 1,000 mm) compared to
other parts of the country. This partly explains why population density
was lower than elsewhere in Rwanda, and why agricultural development had
been slower than in better favored areas. Services were virtually
non-existent there. Parts of the region had large expanses of natural
pastures. Project area population, estimated at about 150,000, was
increasing rapidly, primarily because people were migrating from other
more densely populated regions of Rwanda. The project area as defined at
appraisal included two communes (Gashora and Ngenda) and part of a third
commune (Kanzenze) in the Bugesera region, and three communes (Birenga,
Rukira and Rusumo) in the Gisaka-Migongo region. It was expanded in 1979,
at the Government's request, to cover all Kanzenze commune.
'1.06    There had been substantial development efforts in the project
area. Much of the project area was, in the 1960's, heavily infested by
tse-tse flies. These zones lay principally along the Akagera river and
other low lying areas. They were barely accessible (hiking was the only
access to some areas at the time of appraisal). A successful tse-tse
eradication operation was carried out in 1968/69 in Bugesera, followed by
intensive settlement and rural development schemes. Although the



principal project effort, through the OBM (Office de Bugesera Mayaga) had
many successes to its credit, including several thriving cooperatives,
external financing had ceased by the time of appraisal and there was much
uncertainty on its future. A tse-tse control and rural development
project in the Rusumo basin (in the Akagera Valley) financed by Belgian
bilateral aid had demonstrated that this area also had considerable
development potential, for livestock and agriculture.  Despite the
continuing presence of tse-tse flies in most of Akagera valley and drought
risks, the intense pressure on land elsewhere in Rwanda had led, from the
early 1970's, to a rapid population influx into the project area. By
1975, some parts were already entirely occupied, despite the total absence
of infrastructure and services.  The International Association for Rural
Development (AIDR), a non-profit Belgian organization, had undertaken a
limited rural development project based on "animation" (mobilization and
organization of people for development) around Rusumo at the southeastern
tip of Rwanda. Here also, there were many positive signs, including
successful precooperatives and evidence that the population could and
would contribute to development efforts, The major problems were that
development support was partial and was not institutionalized, and
external financing was at an end. Despite these past and on-going
projects, thi whole of the Bugesera-East area, the Akagera Valley, and
neighboring highlands remained at a very low level of development, even by
the standards of Rwanda.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Identification and Preparation
2.01    Possible IDA financing for an agricultural project in southeastern
Rwanda was first considered formally in 1974, during discussions on the
draft Bank economic report, which stressed integrated rural development
(para 1.03). An RMEA agricultural project identification mission visited
Rwanda in July 1974. Following field visits and various meetings, two
main project ideas were identified and discussed: () a settlement
/mixed-farming project in the south-east; and (ii) development and
improvement of high altitude crops (coffee, cinchona and wheat) and
construction of a tea factory in the west. The settlement/mixed-farming
project was designed to support orderly settlement of 4,000 families in
tse-tse infested areas in Kibungo Province, and of 1,000 families in the
Bugesera area. Following tse-tse eradication, economic and social
infrastructure were to be provided for a total of 11,000 families.
Agricultural development was to be based on raising livestock for meat and
milk production, within a system of mixed farming. The project was also
to provide for training of cooperative managers and marketing, storage,
aad processing facilities. Total investment costs were estimated at USS
5.5 million. Discussions on the second project idea proceeded separately
and with difficulty, culminating eventually in the Cinchona Project,
approved by IDA in 1976.
2.02    Preparation work was essentially carried out by Bank staff
(led by the Nairobi regional mission, with support from headquarters
staff). Three consecutive, short missions were the focal point of
preparatory work, between August 1974 and April 1975.  The project
proposal was based on technical studies prepared by technical assistants
working in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rwanda's Agricultural Research



Institute (ISAR). A soil survey and a water resources inventory were also
carried out by ISAR and AIDR with IDA financing (under the Mutara
Project). The settlement proposals were based on the extensive experience
with "paysannat" settlements in Rwanda, dating back to the late 1950's,
and, as presented to IDA, differed little from the general model. There
were paysannat schemes on-going in both the Kibongo and Bugesera areas
(para 1.06).
2.03    At the time of appraisal, the project concept was relatively
complex, with ten quite distinct components. The heart of the proposal,
however, was settlement schemes in areas along the Akegera River which
were to be opened up by tse-tse fly eradication. The emphasis was on
livestock development as the technical basis for the settlement schemes.
Two small commercial ranches were also to be developed, one building on an
existing livestock station at Rusumo managed by AIDR, another on a
military reservation in Bugesera. Substantial investments for
infrastructure were proposed, particularly access roads and human water
supply. Project costs were estimated, quite tentatively, at USS10.0
million. Institutional aspects had not been worked out in any detail; the
tentative Government proposal was to create a special authority to manage
the project along the lines of OVAPAM which was implementing the
IDA-financed Mutara Project. The only major project issue discussed with
the Government during preparation was the extent of the proposed tse-tse
eradication program.
B. Appraisal to Credit Effectiveness
2.04    Because a wide variety of existing surveys and on-going pilot
development efforts had been undertaken in the project area, no formal
preparation report was prepared. IDA decided nonetheless to proceed
directly to a combined preparation and appraisal mission.  This decision
was partly linked to the parallel experience of preparing and appraising
an export crop pro'ect, which encountered serious difficulties and
heightened tensions in IDA/Government relations (IDA had declined to
consider financing of tea, and the Government had raised serious doubts
about coffee development proposals at a late stage of project
processing). There was thus some impetus to move expeditiously from talk
and study to action. The preparation/appraisal mission, composed of three
Bank staff members, visited Rwanda in May 1975. Bank group financing had
been formally requested in a cable from the Minister of Finance and
Economy dated April 29, 1975.
2.05    The mission raised some fundamental issues which called for a
fundamental redefinition of the project's objectives and scope. This in
turn necessitated substantial additional planning of investments and
raised issues of basic policy on the role of rural institutions. The
initial project focus had been settlement in the project area (following
tse-tse control) of families from over-populated parts of Rwanda and
development of basic infrastructure for mixed farming and rural
development. The mission, however, became convinced that previous
assumptions that tse-tse fly infestation had largely precluded settlement
in the project area werj incorrect. Most parts of the project area were
thus unsuitable for organized settlement programs mainly because they were
already substantially populated and being farmed. Further, agricultural
potential of the area was better than previously supposed, while



- 5 -
possibilities for extensive livestock raising were rather restricted. The
mission concluded that the focus of development had to be on mixed
farming, promoting integration of livestock with cropping to the greatest
extent possible; the project should be viewed as a broadly-based rural
development program, assisting population already in the area and a
limited number of new settlers who would come spontaneously, under any
scenario. The primary emphasis had to be on development of basic rural
infrastructure (roads, water supply, community centers, schools and health
centers), development of essential rural services (notably extension
services for crops and livestock), and on providing agricultural inputs.
2.06    The institutional issue proved even more thorny than anticipated.
The Government was clearly not fully convinced of the need for an
autonomous project management authority, although they had formally
proposed it. At that time there was a general uncertainty in Rwanda on
national policies for development of rural institutions, and conflicting
opinions were expressed by different individuals or agencies. The debate
turned around the role of local government institutions (prefecture and
commune levels), autonomous regional development parastatals, and
central Government services.
2.07    The mission was particularly concerned as to whether there was
clear Government commitment to the project. It became apparent that no
Rwandese official had participated consistently or completely in detailed
project preparation. Despite meetings and discussions held during
preparation missions, few Government officials fully appreciated the
details of project proposals.  The problem wias aggravated by the fact that
substantial alterations both in project concept and in the design of
individual project components were proposed a. the appraisal stage. The
mission therefore concluded that special efforts were called for to ensure
that Rwandese officials careru iy consiaerea ail aspects or the prolect
and made specific decisions as to how outstandi3g issues were to be
resolved. The mission's approach was to define options and seek
Government decisions. On the key issue of project organization and
implementation, five alternatives were outlined:
(a)    direct implementation by Government of Rwanda departments,
coordinated by a small project unit and coordination
committee;
(b)    project responsibility assumed by existing regional
parastatal organizations (OVAPAM and OBM), with statutes
modified so they could function in the project area;
(c)    establishment of a new national parastatal organization for
food crop and livestock production, marketing and
processing (this was already under consideration by the
Presidency and, during the appraisal period, OPROV,A was
established - para 3.13);
(d)    implementation by a new parastatal authority to be created
expressly for the project; or
(e)    implementation by one or more decentralized regional
development authorities.



- 6 -
2.08    The mission also emphasized the need to clarify policies on
development of agricultural extension services throughout Rwanda, training
of intermediate level staff, and coordination at field level of extension
programs for commercial crops, foodcrops and livestock, as there was much
uncertainty in all these areas. In addition, settlement policies, were at
that time in some disarray (for example scope for more paysannat schemes
and arrangements for cost recovery). Alternative approaches then under
discussion included: (a) organizing farmers into formal settlement
programs; (b) development of village organizations and new villages; or
(c) provision of infrastructure to existing settlements, witl-out formal
demarcation of settlement plots.
2.09    Livestock proposals for the project proved particularly
problematic. Tse-tse fly eradication was effectively a precondition for
many project proposals. Shortly before the appraisal mission, a financing
agreement betweaen the Belgian and Rwandese Governments had been concluded
for a tse-tse eradication campaign in the Akegera Valley. Clear
coordination arrangements with the Belgian tse-tse control project were
thus essential. Secondly, a proposal, first advanced during the
preparation/appraisal mission, to establish a cattle ranch near the
Akagera Lakes (see map) posed other issues. The objective was to occupy
areas temporarily with a ranch, after tse-tse eradication, to deter
settlement while studies were undertaken to prepare a development plan for
the area. The mission found this proposal interesting, but details had
not been worked out and the scheme seemed particularly risky. The second
ranch was also tricky as it was to be developed on a military reservation;
the mission recommended strict conditions ott management. General issues
of livestock policy clearly needed further government review, as did the
organization of veterinary services. There was still considerable
optimism that Rwanda could export cattle and beef, but new uncertainties
were emerging on markets including the role of a brand new parastatal,
OPROVIA.
2.10    O:her troublesome issues involved immediate and potential linkages
between project activities and some proposed developments then taking
shape in the context of the UNDP-financed Kagera River Basin Development
Studies (a far-ranging regional study program covering most of Rwanda and
Burundi and part of Tanzania.)  The appraisal mission was told that
project proposals would not run counter to any scheme likely to be
forthcoming from these regional studies, but two matters plainly merited
continued attention.  The first was regional control of tse-tse fly (i.e.
covering Tanzania and Burundi) which WHO officials considered essential to
reduce the risk of reinfestation. The mission concluded that tse-tse
control in a circumscribed area was justified since it seemed highly
unlikely that an international cooperative effort would be mounted for a
long time, and there were reasonably good natural barriers around the
area (surrounding highlands and the Akegera River).  Second, it seemed
probable that a hydroelectric power plant proposed for Rusumo Falls would
cause flooding of parts of the project area. The mission concluded,
nonetheless, that it was unlikely, for technical, financial and political
reasons, that this scheme would materialize.
2.11    The mission's issues paper set out these problems and proposed a
process to ensure that the Government was given more time to review the
project. The mission recommended that the draft appraisal report



-7-
summarize problems and outline alternative solutions where there were
outstanding issues and where decisions by the Government were required.
After appropriate clearances within the Bank, the report was to be sent to
the Government.  IDA would mount an appraisal follow-up mission when the
Government was ready. The mission also recommended that two guiding
principles be adhered to: (a) because the project could not be successful
without full and explicit Government support, the first criterion in
determining which alternative course of action to pursue should be the
*        Government's preferred option; and (b) since the project had to rely on
-Government institutions and had to be attune to changes in policy, the
mission recommended that project design be sufficiently flexitle to permit
adaptation to changing circumstances.  After considerable internal
discussion, IDA management supported the mission's recomendations,
including those on the post appraisal process.
2.12    The draft appraisal report was transmitted to the Government in
early December 1975. The Government's comments on the yellow-cover
appraisal report were received in April 1976 and discussed during a post
appraisal mission in early May 1976. This mission also discussed various
co-financing possibilities (BADEA, Belgian aid, and FAC) which had arisen
following the preparation/appraisal mission. The Government's comments
focused on project organization and the financing plan:
,                 (a)    The Government decided that the project should be
Implemented through a coordinating committee and a
management committee, making maximum use of existing
institutions and staff and of producer cooperatives;
(b)    The Government agreed to all other implementation
procedures, including the level of technical assistance (9
expatriates) but questionned the recruitment procedures
proposed (one single firm to provide all needs);
(c)    the Government informed the mission that the Belgian
Government had agreed to finance tse-tse eradication and
Rusumo breeding station. The Government had also approached
the French Government for possible assistance. Finally,
BADEA had agreed to finance US$5 million of project costs;
(d)    the Government requested that additional investments for a
pumped water supply system (estimated at US$1.5 million)
for East Bugesera be financed under the project; and
(e)    the Government agreed to most proposed credit conditions,
-.                        including that annual disbursements be conditional on
.3             A          approval of an annual budget and work program.
2.13    BADEA parallel financing for the project was confirmed during the
post appraisal mission: BADEA was to finance the water supply program,
pilot irrigation scheme, veterinary laboratory, and revolving fund for
fattening ranches.  Belgian financing for the tsetse eradication program
4         and extension of the Rusumo breeding station was also confirmed.  However,
following contacts with the FAC mission in Kigali and the Ministry of
Cooperation in Paris, the mission concluded that the French Government was
unlikely to decide definitively on participation soon, and French



-8-
assistance could be counted on for only a relatively small part of the
technical assistance requirements.
2.14    The mission recommended, following these discussions, that IDA
proceed with credit processing.   The mission also assisted the Government
in drawing up a request for a Prolect Preparation Facility advance (this
was a new instrument at this time) for start-up activities prior to credit
effectiveness (a PPF advance of US$200,000 was approved in August 1976).
Finally, the mission reiterated its previous recommendations that the
project would require intensive supervision and that flexibility during
proJect implementation would be essential.
2.15    Negotiations were held in Kigali (largely in response to a BADEA
request) from October 7 - 22, 1976. The Belgian Government was
represented at negotiations. A central issue during negotiations was to
ensure once again full Government commitment to the project. Another
important issue was to work out arrangements for the work plan approach,
which was a new mechanism for both IDA and the Government.  Credit
proceeds were to be allocated on an annual basis according to detailed
work plans prepared by the Government and approved by IDA. Other issues
(parallel financing arrangements between IDA and BADEA, number of
expatriates to be employed, establishment of a revolving fund, interest
rates, and procedures for relending IDA credit and BADEA loan proceeds to
OPROVIA), were resolved relatively easily.
2.16    A US$14.0 million IDA credit was approved by IDA's Executive
Directors on December 14, 1976. There was a lengthy Board discussion
which focused on many aspects of project design, including the built-in
flexibility in design through work plans (which was commended), prospects
for sustainability, and technical assistance provisions. The Directors
expresed concern on the likely difficulty and possible delays in finding
suitably qualified technical assistance personnel, the risk that
institutional lnnovations and technical assistance would lapse following
the investment period, the possible construction of a power dam at Rusumo
Falls which would entail extensive flooding of project areas,l/ and the
danger of tsetse reinfestation since no coordinated regional effort was an
immediate prospect. The IDA Credit Agreement was signed on March 31,
1977, and the loan agreement between the Government and BADEA on April 7,
1977. The IDA credit effectiveness date was set for June 30, 1977.
2.17    Confinancing arrangements came unstuck after credit signature and
resulted in extensive discussions over the next two years. Despite
earlier indications that the 'FAC could not participate in project
financing, IDA learned in December 1976 that FAC were prepared to provide
a part of project technical assistance. FAC indicated a strong
preference for participation on a full cofinancing basis, which would call
for a full revamping of the financing plan. An initial, interim agreement
was reached whereby FAC would recruit and finance three individuals
,(Project Director and the two regional directors) and short-term
' consultants for cattle ranches, cattle marketing, and water development.
They would help launch project Implementation and prepare a detailed
implementation plan, on the basis of which longer-term FAC involvement
would be determined. IDA staff recognized that the proposed arrangements
were by no means ideal, largely because they called for significant
4               changes in plans at a late stage.  Nonetheless, IDA made arrangements to
1/   Rusumo schemes have been under discussion ever since, but a high dam,
which would entail major flooding, was long since ruled out.



-9-
integrate French assistance because this was clearly the solution the
Rwandese Government preferred for financing and recruiting technical
assistance (the Government then and now strongly favors technical
assistance to be financed on grant terms). The new arrangements were not
fully worked out until April 1979, but ultimately FAC financed most
technical assistance costs (para 3.05).
2.18    Conclusions:  Project preparation and appraisal were noteworthy
for a relatively protracted appraisal process, important changes in
project design, and a bumpy and rather confusing path towards working out
financing arrangements. Project identification and preparatioa were
carried out almost exclusively by Bank staff, with limited effective
participation of Rwandese officials, although regular meetings were held
with Rwandese Staff at almost every stage. Local institutions (ISAR) and
consultants (AIDR) were involved only In carrying out preliminary studies
to define specific components. In retrospect, it seems clear that more
groundwork at preparation would have been beneficial, and the decision to
proceed to preparation/appraisal was premature. No formal preparation
report had been written and the project's essential institutional aspects
had not been fully analyzed. This led the appraisal mission to propose
significant changes in project objectives and scope and to recommend
(wisely) that sufficient time be given to the Rwandese Government to
consider project design further and make up their minds on options for
project organization. These changes and delays were no doubt beneficial
in that they permitted better adaptation to constraints on the ground and
ensured better acceptance by Rwandese officials. However, one missing
element in the process was a much needed simplification in design; the
project remaine  very complex and involved far too many components to be
successfully implemented in the Rwandese environment at the time.
C. Project Design at Appralsal
2.19    Prolect Description and Costs:  The project as approved in 1976
was defined as a broad-based program of activities to be carried out over
a five year period, aimed at boosting crop and livestock activities and
general rural development in the East-Bugesera and Gisaka/Migongo
Regions. It included specifically:
(a)    tsetse eradication in the Akagera valley;
(b)    development of extension services for foodcrops and
livestock, including extension infrastructure comprising
communal agricultural centers, demonstration units for
cattle stall feeding, tree nurseries, dipping tanks, and
livestock breeding centers;
.
A    (c)    provision of inputs to farmers using credit, particularly
heifers, cattle-sheds, agricultural inputs (seeds, tools,
tree seedlings), fishing equipment, bee-hives, and
marketing and processing equipment;
(d)    improvement of secondary and feeder roads, topographic
surveys, and mapping;
(e)    construction of human and livestock water supply systems;



-10 -
(f)    construction of schools and health centers;
(g)    development of two new cattle ranches, expansion of the
Rusumo breeding station, and construction of stock routes,
holding grounds, and a veterinary diagnostic laboratory;
(h)    a pilot irrigation scheme to test potential for irrigated
agriculture development around the Nasho lakes; and
(i)    technical assistance for project management and staff
training, an agricultural training center, future project
preparation, and monitoring and evaluation.
2.20    The prolect area covered two distinct regions (para 1.05).
Although neighboring, they were physically separated by a swampy valley
and administratively isolated from one another, each falling in a
different prefecture. This situation later proved to be a constraint to
the involvement of local governments in project execution, a problem
exacerbated by the project's complexity.
2.21    Project cost details are summarized in Annex 1.  At appraisal,
costs were estimated at RWF 2,159 million (US$23.3 million equivalent),
including 40X in foreign exchange. The financing plan at appraisal was as
follows:
FRW           US$
(million)     (million)         %
Rwandese Government         145             1.6          7
Farmers                     163             1.8          8
Government of Belgium        79             0.9          4
BADEA                       469             5.0         21
IDA                       1,303            14.0         60
TOTAL                                      23159  2.=3  I5 
2.22    Organization and Management.  A Project Coordination Committee
(PCC), established by presidential decree, was to have overall
responsibility for project lmplementationz Tt wao to include high ranking
representatives of all concerned ministries (Finance, Planning, Social
Affairs, and Interior), chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock. The PCC was to have a Permanent Secretariat
within the Ministry which would liaise between the committee and all
agencies involved in project execution. It was to coordinate and
supervise all activities related to project programming, implementation,
and monitoring and to delegate part of its authority to a management
committee including the Secretary of the Coordination Committee, the
,'Project Director and the two Regional Directors.
2.23    The prolect management team was to comprise the Project Director,
the Rwandese managerial staff, and technical assistance staff. It was to
be in charge of project execution and coordination, under the PCC's
authority and in conjunction with local authorities and producer
cooperatives. The management team was based in Kigali. It was to prepare
and manage annual work plans, procurement, project financing, and
traininge In the field, each Regional Director was to manage project



construction work for his region and organize extension services and
agricultural credit mechanisms, assisted by a small team of specialists
and Rwandese technicians. Regional staff were to work in close
collaboration with regional (prefets), communal (bourgmestres) and local
(conseillers de communes) authorities, both in planning and implementation
of works. Development centers were to complement existing communal
infrastructure. The appraisal report forecast that responsibility for
managing field activities, Including extension, rural Infrastructure and
agricultural credit, would be progressively transferred from the project
management team and government services to producer cooperatives. The
project management team was also to Implement and manage, on behalf of
OPROVIA, the two now fattening ranches, as well as the stock-routes and
holding ground. It was responsible for the management of all project
marketing infrastructure financed by OPROVIA.
2.24    A key instrument of project management and IDA supervision was to
be annual work programs. These were to define the specific scope of work
for most components, Including costs and allocation of credit funds. It
was expected that appraisal estimates would not be adhered to slavishly,
but that each year's program would be worked out taking into account
experience gained, and working in close collaboration with local
authorities. IDA and other cofinanciers were to approve plans after they
were reviewed and approved b7 the PCC. Because this placed a heavy burden
on project management, special emphasis was placed on systematic reporting
on Implementation results and provision was made for monitoring and
evaluation.
2.25    The major expected production benefits were Increased foodcrop
production resulting from higher yields. This was to be achieved by
introducing better cropping techniques, opening uncultivated land, and
more Intensive farming of underused areas. Improved livestock handling
techniques such as feeding of livestock in cowsheds were to generate
increased milk and meat production for family consumption and sale.  Use
of manure as fertilizer was to make possible crop intensification and
better yields. Other components were to complement these basic
Improvements. The ranches were to fatten young cattle for export, at the
same time relieving overgrazing pressures. The Rusumo station was to
produce better heifers for farm stall-feeding.  Reafforestation was to
increase wood production and enhance traditional bee-keeping. By year 10,
Incremental crop production was expected to reach 25,000 tons per year,
that of milk 3.1 million liters, and meat 2,500 tons. Fish production
would bring a significant animal protein production complement. Increased
fish production was estimated at about 400 tons a year; honey and wood
production increase were valued at US$300,000 p.a. at full development.
Road Improvements, tsetse eradication and assistance to farmers and
farmers groups were to favor marketing (estimated to increase to about 60Z
of incremental production). Human development was to be furthered by
provision of essential social infrastructure (water, roads, education,
health). Benefits to the Government were expected from fattening ranch
profits and some additional tax revenues. The economic rate of return on
directly productive project components was estimated at 32X over a 20 year
period; costs and benefits of social infrastructure, water supply, the
pilot irrigation scheme, and some technical services were excluded from
this calculation.



- 12 -
2.26    The appraisal report noted that the project entailed substantial
risks.  Success depended on adoption by many farmers of new techniques,
which in turn was dependent on major strengthening of services, including
extension, good coordination within the Government, and full involvement
of local communities. The risk that developments might not be sustained
after the project period v:as underlined. The appraisal report concluded
nonetheless: "Difficult as they rightly appear, broad-based development
project like the proposed project appear to offer the best prospect for
development in Rwanda".
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Project start-up and Implementation Problems
Effectiveness and Project Start Up
3.01   There were five special conditions of IDA credit effectiveness:
(a) signature of the BADEA Credit Agreement; (b) setting up a US$200,000
revolving fund; (c) establishment of the PCC (para 2.22); (d) submission
to IDA of the first annual work program; and (e) recruitment of key
project staff, expatriate and Rwandese. Credit effectiveness, originally
scheduled for June 30, 1977 was delayed by five months (to November 23,
1977), mainly because of late official submission to IDA of the first work
plan. Other conditions were met essentially on schedule.
3.02    Although a PPF advance was available from August 1976, it took
almost a year to start using it, mainly because of delays in appointing
key project staff. Planned start-up activities (house and office
construction, ordering of vehicles) got off the ground only in April
1977. By October 1977, however, foui months after the project director
and regional managers arrived, a joint Bank/FAC mission reported that an
impressive start had been made. A project office had been established and
houses rented for staff. The Government had allocated land for the
agricultural training center, the veterinary laboratory, and the cattle
holding ground near Kigali. Sites had been selected and construction
begun for the two regional project centers. Topographic surveys were
being carried out in the two regions, and the boundaries of the Gako Ranch
were being surveyed. Finally, tsetse eradication in Gisaka Migongo was
on-going and apparently successful.
Financing Arrangements and Changes in Project Design
3.03    There were substantial changes in financing arrangements during
implementation which materially affected the outcome of many project
components. There were intensive discussions, and three formal
cofinanciers meetings before arrangements were sorted out, two years after
eredit approval.  The Belgium Government indicated in late 1977 its
'intention to withdraw its financing for the Rusumo Station component;
financing had been agreed upon during negotiations, but no specific
agreement had been signed between the Belgian and Rwandese Governments.
AIDR (para 1.06), cut off from Belgian funding, handed the Rusumo station
over to the project unit early in 1978.  Apart from confusion, this had
serious consequences as much of the breeding herd was sold prior to the
transfer to cover operating costs.  Belgian-financed tsetse eradication
activities were carried out by AIDR under ISAR supervision but were poorly



- 13 -
coordinated with other project activities despite long prior discussions
about this potential issue.  The initial confusion on the Rusumo station
had an impact which is still apparent today in the station's uncertain
role and failure to implement needed improvement programs.
3.04    The financing agreement between BADEA and the Rwandese Governrment
became effective in July 1978.  This had been delayed because BADEA sought
assurances that IDA would replace Belgian aid in financing Rusumo.  The
situation was partially sorted out during a Paris Cofinancing meeting in
February 1978, when IDA, satisfied that French financing would
materialize, amended its agreement to Include finance for Rusumo.  By
;        1979, it was apparent that, due to cost escalation for the Bugesera water
supply system, BADEA funds would be insufficient to cover both the costs
associated with cattle marketing and the %'asho irrigation center pilot
development, It was thus decided that BADEA funds would be reserved to
complete the Bugesera water supply system and to purchase cattle for the
fattening ranches. As a result, no irrigation trials were carried out
(this proposal is under active review now).  Stock-route development was
also abandoned.  The project management team had serious logistic problems
in communicating with BADEA in the early years, and this had adverse
consequences, notably explaining delayed stocking of the fattening ranches
(only one became operational).
3.05    French Government financing had a significant impact on the
proJect both because FAC effectively managed technical assistance which in
turn largely determined the nature of project management arrangements, and
because of a protracted period of uncertainty in working out new financing
arrangements.  FAC posted three technical assistants to Rwanda in June
1977 (the Project Director and the two Regional Directors). Over the next
siX months, FAC also sent three technical consultant missions (on fishing,
training and cattle marketing), and two supervision missions. In February
1978, during a co-financiers meeting in Paris between the Rwandese
Government, IDA, BADEA and FAC, FAC proposed to finance 342 of technical
assistance costs and 10% of other project costs for a total amount of FF13
million. Assignment of five new technical assistants (one accountant, two
trainers, one livestock specialist and one veterinarian) and a plan for
four more specific studies were also agreed upon.  This proposal, however,
was not ratified and in January 1979, during another co-financiers meeting
in Kigali, FAC committed themselves to finance all project technical
assistance costs., An agreement to this effect was eventually signed
between the French and Rwandese Governments in April 1979. Meanwhile a
FAC financial specialist arrived in Rwanda in March 1978 and a livestock
specialist in May 1978. A training expert arrived In November 1979. In
sum, this negotiation process came late and resulted both in delays in
recruitment of key personnel and important changes In the agreed plans for
the technical assistance team. The individuals were, in general, highly
quallfied and motivated. However, partly because of late-course changes
and partly because arrangements were administered separately by the
financing partners, some basic agreements on project objectives and design
worked out during appraisal were lost sight of during implementation.
3.06    This complex process of finalizing co-financing agreements
resulted in important changes in project design. Amendments to the IDA
Credit and BADEA loan agreements were made (July 1979) to accomodate
changes in the financing plan and cost overruns for some components.  New



- 14 -
agreements were:
(a)    BADEA would restrict Its financing to water development in
Bugesera and Gisaka and to cattle purchase for the Nasho
and Gako ranches;
(b)    IDA would finance cattle marketing activities and the
Kigali holding ground; and
(c)    IDA would finance consultancies to plan the proposed Nasho
pilot irrigation schemes
The amendment to the IDA credit agreement also confirmed previous
agreement by IDA to finance Ruaumo station development and formalized
agreement to enlarge the project area by adding western Kanzenze commune.
The project revolving fund was increased from US$200,000 to US$400,000.
3.07    It was apparent by 1981 that several planned investments would
have to be delayed to a follow-up project. The 1981 budget made specific
provision to conserve funds to ensure a smooth transition to the second
phase project. Vehicle purchases were reduced and the Nasho pilot
irrigation scheme was delayed. Discussions on the 1982 Project work
program led to further reductions of operating expenses in order to remain
within the limits of available finance; it was by now clear that the BGM
II project would entail reductions in the number of activities undertaken
and in the level of recurrent expenses. Vehicle numbers and operating
cost allowances were reduced, as were administrative operating costs and
most technical activities (seed.multiplication, afforestation, bushfire
control, poultry, fishing, training, etc.).
Proiect Management
3.08    Problems in defining responsibilities of the various senior
project managers had an important impact on project implementation. A
first issue became apparent within weeks of the arrival of the expatriate
Project Director: definition of the respective responsibilities of the
Secretary, PCC, and the Project Director. The latter had, beginnirg in
July 1977, unofficially transmitted notes to FAC and IDA expressing
concern about the definition of his position vis-a-vis the Rwandese
Permanent Secretary; his view was that he must have either full authority,
or clear agreement on terms of reference as an advisor to the Government.
The issue was considered by all concerned, including IDA, FAC and
Government. IDA's position was that the Government must clarify the jobs,
but that plainly the Rwandese Permanent Secretary must play an active role
in project implementation. By end 1977 an informal agreement was reached
whereby responsibilities for all major project activities and decisions
r'elated to personnel were to be shared by the Project Director and the
"Permanent Secretary, an arrangement signified by their co-signing all
correspondence and memoranda. Fresh problems arose when a long-awaited
Rwandese Co-director was finally appointed in mid 1978. Working relations
between the Permanent Secretary and the expatriate Project Director
improved during the second project year, but relations between the latter
and his "co-Director" deteriorated rapidly to the point where fruitful
collaboration became impossible. It took an inordinate amount of time
before satisfactory terms of reference for each were finally approved by



- 15 -
the PCC, which decided to alter the title of the co-Director to deputy
Director and to define his responsibilities accordingly.  The Permanent
Secretary remained at his post until the second phase project began. The
;4        Rwandese Deputy Director remained until late 1980 when he was appointed
project coordinator for the new, IDA financed, GBK Project. He was never
replaced.
3.09    Although they remained discreet, tensions also arose within the
*         project technical assistance team, specifically between the Project
Director who was perceived as centralizing too much responsibility, and
.1        regional staff, including some of the regional expatriate directors.  It
is noteworthy that the 1981 project work plan was for the first time
prepared with real consultation of local authorities. This was done at
the initiative of regional staff who took advantage of the absence of the
Project Director in late 1980.  There is some evidence that the Project
Dixector erred in centralizing decision making excessively and failing to
delegate sufficient responsibility to local managers.
Agro-Climatic and Social Factors affecting Implementation
3.10    Agro-climatic and social factors affected the project in several
!         ways.  First, the project area consisted of two different regions with
different soils, different topography, and resources.  Somewhat different
agricultural interventions were therefore required in the twe regions.
The diversity of social settlements in the project area and the high rate
of spontaneous immigration made the organization and execution of
technical services and input supply difficult. Despite ambitious rural
infrastructure components, no master plan was prepared which would have
allowed for rational location of administrative infrastructure, so errors
were made, like locating a development center away from the Sub-Prefecture
seat at Nyamata. During the project period very low rainfall in Gisaka
caused abandonment of some existing paysannat settlements near Rusumo:
significant numbers of people moved to more favorable areas. In Bugesera,
the progressive drying-up after 1980 of Lake Cyohoha, which was to supply
water to the Gako ranch, was a major reason the ianch was not developed.
Institutional Factors affecting Implementation
3.11    A primary concern during appraisal and negotiations was to avoid
creation of new institutions and to assure sustainability through
Integration with the local administration and farmer organizations. The
coordination and management committees and the project management team
soon lost sight of this objective. Project management became centralized,
and tended to execute most project activities directly rather than to work
with and through existing local and national lnstitutions. As a result,
the project was increasingly perceived by the local authorities as
a providential source of finance; the object was to extract from it the
maximum. Project staff went so far as to use communal authorities to
exercise pressure on farmers to follow extension advice where extension
activities were not convincing enough.
3.12    The project was prepared and implemented during a time of
uncertainty in Rwanda regarding the institutional framework for rural
development.  Various systems of project management had been tried in the
preceeding period, ranging from independent project units (project



- 16 -
Agro-Pastoral de Nyabisindu and Project Agricole de Kibuye) to the
creation of special parastatals (OVAPAM). The structure proposed for the
project represented a prudent position designed to avoid the creation of a
new institution which would be difficult to dismantle later. This prudent
approach was, however, not maintained by those who implemented the project
and in practice a large project unit and staff, with no independent
statutes yet apart from the normal government services, emerged.
Agricultural Policy
3.13    No clear national policy on input supply or agricultural marketlng
had been defined at the time of appraisal. Improved seeds, for example,
were sold at a price below or equal to the consumer market price for
the same commodity, taking no account of eitbar production costs or
product quality.   A parastatal entity, OP%0'JXA, was created in early 1976
to intervene in agricultural commodity matkeza ti an attempt to lessen
seasonal price variations and to secure food sJiplies for Government staff
such as the military. However, OPROVIA's role was very uncertain for a
prolonged period. Government and project staff uncertainties in this area
contributed to the ultimate failure of the project's marketing component
(para 3.26).
3.14    The Government's settlement policy was also unclear at the time of
appraisal. IDA was informed in 1976 that the Government wanted to
experiment with a formula of 'village' settlements in order to reduce t.he
costs of social infrastructure by concentrating population in villages.
This was implemented during the project period in che Akagera corridor
near Lake Nasho and at Gashora. This strategy proved unacceptable to the
farm population, nor was it compatible with extension recommendations such
as livestock stall-feeding on the farm. Since then, a more pragmatic
settlement policy has emerged, and settlement figures much less
prominently in policy discussions as there remains virtually no vacant
land to settle.
Staffing
3.15    Local staff availability proved to be even more problematic than
expected at appraisal; problems were accentuated by the project's
ambitious objectives (particularly in the field of extension and technical
assistance to farmers). Lack of staff, particularly at the intermediate
and field levels, greatly affected implementation during most of the
project period. It limited the extent to which extension services could
be developed (until mid 1981, there was little possibility for carrying
out more than scattered extension activities). Staff shortages were
partly responsible for the project's shortfalls in achieving its ambitious
institutional objectives, particularly in the area of assistance to
farmers' cooperatives.
B. Project Technical Achievements
Rural infrastructure program
3.16    A substantial rural infrastructure construction program was
carried out .under the project, most using force account. It included
specifically:



- 17 -
(a)    Construction of infrastructure for extension and other
agricultural services, a project management center in
Kigali, two regional centers at Gashora and Kibungo, twenty
PAVs (Poste agro-veterinaire) and six silos (altogether,
332 different buildings representing a total covered area
of some 25,000 m2 - Annex 1). Works were undertaken
remarkably quickly, but a serious flaw was the high
recurrent costs of operating arl maintaining these
buildings. Further, quality of some work was poor, perhaps
because no civil engineer was assigned to the program.
*                  (b)    The planned roads program was only partially implemented
(about 35Z of projections in terms of kilometers). The
program was sharply curtailed because funds available
proved to be largely insufficient (cost overruns).
(c)    Six schools and three health centers were constructed, but
lack of equipment, staff accommodations, and operating
funds (supposed to be provided by Government) caused delays
in operating them.
(d)    A substantial water supply program was carried out
including a large pipe water supply scheme covering most of
Gashora commune and smaller schemes in the Akagera corridor
(three water collection and distribution systems), at
Nasho-West (two) and Musaza-south. Two small pumping
stations were also installed at Nasho and Gako as well as
the Kibungo regional center water supply.
Despite an attempt to initiate beneficiary contributions to operating and
maintenance costs, for water supply, costs were not recovered. A national
cost recovery system was discussed at length, but a decision on the matter
was taken only in 1984. Meanwhile, the Government had not wished to
introduce new mechanisms at a regional level.
Tse-tse eradication (Annex 2)
3.17    Tse-tse eradication started in 1977 with Belgian Government
financing. It was interrupted in late 1977 following a Presidential
decision to ban the use of Dieldrex throughout Rwanda on environmental
grounds (Dieldrex is used for tsetse eradication).  The program was
resumed in 1978 when doubts were put, at least provisionally, to rest. In
1979, tse-tse reinfestation occurred and a new eradication can ,aign was
undertaken in 1980-1981.  A FAO tsetse specialist assessed the situation
'1         1981 but his recommendations could not be implemented because of their
high costs.  Clearly, project activities did not fully eradicate tsetse
flies in the area, and massive tsetse reinfestation occurred in areas
allOcated to livestock.  However, partial success in some cropped areas
*          did facilitate settlement of new farmers there (creation of the Malindi
and Rushonga "paysannat" settlements, extension of those around Rusumo).
The extension of cropping areas has in turn reduced tsetse concentration
by breaking up the flies' habitat there.
.1
iJ
* 1



- 18 -
Fattening ranches, Rusumo breeding station and Diagnostic Laboratory
3.18    Two fattening ranches were established and partly stocked with
cattle from 1978 to 1982. During this period, some basic questions were
raised by the cofinancing partners and technical assistance staff on the
justification for ranching operations and proposed stock routes and
holding ground construction. Decisions were made in 1978 not to open up
stock routes (because transport of cattle by truck was judged more
profitable) and, in 1979, to call off holding ground construction.
Because of increasing operating problems at Gako ranch (including water
problems after Lake Cyohoha disappeared - para 3.10), BADEA stopped cattle
purchases for this ranch in 1980. Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock decided, in 1981, to transform the ranches progressively
into collective ranches. In retrospect, appraisal technical assumptions
appear to have been somewhat theoretical and unrealistic. This was due to
poor data available at the time and the general belief that meat exports
were feasible and profitable.  The pasture carrying capacity at Nasho
proved far below appraisal expectations (2,000 head of cattle instead of
8,000). Also lack of water at Nasho did not permit use of more than 2,300
ha of pasture instead of the expected 7,000 ha. For both ranches sales
were disappointing due to the lack of marketing outlets.  Nelther ranch
ever reached full capacity. The Nasho ranch was partly settled in 1982 by
Rwandese refugees from Uganda.
3.19    The Rusumo breeding station was handed over by AIDR to the
Project unit in early 1978 (para 3.03). The station was doing well at
appraisal, but by 1978 faced serious problems resulting principally from
the financing hiatus. Thereafter, station management suffered because of
frequent replacement of managers. Complementary investments were made in
1980/81 and stock levels were progressively increased thereafter. Stock
numbers reached 3,000 head in 1983, corresponding to Rusumo's estimated
carrying capacity. This stocking level was supposedly sufficient to
ensure profitability of the station's operations.  The Rusumo breeding
station never became financially viable, however, in part because of the
failure of tsetse eradication operations. Despite several treatments
carried out within the station and clearing of two successive fly
barriers, tsetse flies never completely disappeared and the tryponocidal
treatments of the stock (both preventive and curative) could never be
stopped, and proved extremely costly. In sum, the project ranches were
not successful ventures for social, economic and management reasons.
3.20    Design of the veterinary diagnostic center was significantly
modified in 1978 and 1979 by a specialist from IEMVT.  Based on a
Government request, a vaccine production unit, not foreseen at appraisal,
was added.  With these changes a full National Veterinary Laboratory was
constructed, which the Dutch Government decided in 1979 to finance.
Project financing was limited to site preparation (water supply and
sewerage) and electrical supply.
Extension
3.21    Because of delays in infrastructure construction, equipment
procurement, and lack of qualified personnel, extension activities started
very slowly, taking off on a significant scale only in 1981.  Throughout
the life of the project these problems were accentuated by the dearth of



- 19 -
attractive technical packages adapted to the area, a fundamental problem
addressed explicitly only late in the project period.  Before 1981, the
project extension service supported only minor activities like small stock
raising (rabbits and fowl), fishing, bee-keeping, market-gardening, and
pineapple cropping. In 1981 this situation began to change. Extension
staff began to distribute to farmers, and to plant itself, fruit trees,
tea and coffee seedlings (at least one nursery lnstalled per sector).
Forage multiplication fields were established (one per sector) and grass
stems for forage cropping and planting on contour lines were distributed.
Extension staff introduced and distributed soy bean seeds, promoted the
impvovevient of banana plantations through intercropping of beans,
developed anti-erosion activities, and promoted agriculture/livestock
association (stall feeding). Livestock extension did not get underway
until 1980 (para 3.32). Construction of breeding centers, which also
became operational in 1981, worked poorly, as did distribution of
crossbred animals for stall feeding; animals distributed were less
resistant than the local breed to ambiant pathology, and showed a high
mortality rate which could not be overcome because of insufficient
competent staff. Pastur4 management improvement work, started in 1978 in
Bugesera and 1981 in Gis4ka/Migongo, had limited impact due to land tenure
constraints.  Investments undertaken in some of these pasture areas were
lost because of uncontrolled farmer settlement in areas reserved for
pasture. In sum, in spite of some positive steps, the extension programs
were not generally successful, primarily because of weaknesses in the
extension system itself.  Further, the project period coincided with a
time of sharp decline in the effectiveness of ISAR, the agricultural
research organization, so ISAR support was very limited and
extension-research links especially poor.
3.22    For fishing, positive extension actions were undertaken which,
although beneitithg a limited number of people, led to improvements in
fishing methods, monitoring and regulation of production, and the creation
of better marketing channels. These achievements have been sustained to
the present.
3.23    Assistance to cooperatives (initially seen as the principal
executing agents of project activities) suffered from lack of qualified
staff to train cooperative leaders. In addition, member control over
cooperative management was weak, due above all to the illiteracy of most
cooperative members.  Cooperative assistance staff, administratively
attached to the Ministry of Social Affairs, were not formally integrated
into the project structure. This contributed to coordination problems.
Extension efforts to boost the creation of pre-cooperative groups were
stopped in 1979 due to poor results. Activities in this area were limited
thereafter to supporting existing farmer groups, particularly through
credit for construction of storage facilities.  Project staff monitored
and so'metimes assisted a few dozen groups. In retrospect the project
lacked the means and the approach required to build new cooperatives, or
even to assist existing cooperatives in more than a marginal manner. This
situation was exacerbated by the fact that the cooperative specialist
foreseen at appraisal was never recruited. The experience demonstrated
vividly the difficulty Involved in "outsiders" creating viable
cooperatives, and the intensive assistance required If cooperatives are to
work. If outsiders are the glue keeping a cooperative together, and not
farmer self-interest, the cooperative tends to collapse when the outsider



- 20 -
leaves. This conclusion is accentuated in the BGM experience as there had
been working cooperatives In the area prior to the project period which
-             could not be sustained even though support was available.  In retrospect
it is regrettable that cooperative issues did not figure more prominently
in supervision issues raised during implementation.
Credit, Marketing and Input Supply
3.24    The appraisal report had foreseen that agricultural inputs would
be supplied to farmers through cooperative structures, and financed on
credit. The cooperative channel proved unworkable (para 3.23), but
through this project some of the first concerted efforts in Rwanda were
made to initiate the use of agricultural credit. However, a serious
problem was inherited, as the projects previously operating in the area
(OBM, AIDR) had provided subsidies for input use. This made the
introduction of credit more difficult since farmers were not accustomed to
paying.  Credit was in fact extended only to individuals, both farmers and
project staff.  During the period between 1979 and 1982, most credit
granted (70%) was for the purchase of bicycles, motorcycles and loans for
the benefit of project staff. Genuine agricultural credit was limited to
the financing of animal stall-feeding facilities, backyard poultry
raising, and fishing equipment. Farm inputs (seeds, insecticides,
fungicides) were supplied on cash basis.   Three types of credit
conditions were used: (a) short term credit (7 to 12 months) with 20%
downpayment and a fixed charge of RWF500 per loan for poultry and
corrugated iron sheets; (b) short term credit with no downpayment at 9%
interest for farmers groups; and (c) five year credit with 10% insurance
downpayment (to constitute an insurance fund) and 3% interest for the
purchase of cows.  Interest rates were plainly too low to cover the costs
of credit processing and recovery.
3.25    Total credit distributed during the project period was about RWF
6.4 million, compared to appraisal estimates of RWF 96.3 million. Credit
monitoring at the regional level was uneven and funds were misappropriated
on several occasions. A total of 152 cows were purchased on credit,
with a recovery rate of about 70%; most borrowers had unpaid balances at
the end of the project period. High cow mortality rates, financed by the
project insurance fund even in cases of recognized deficiencies on the
borrower's part, significantly depleted this fund. Poultry sheds (102 in
total) housing an average of 30 hens each were financed on credit (about
RWF 1 million). Recovery rates for poultry raising were low: 37% in
Gisaka/Migongo and 64% in Bugesera. This result was particularly poor
since most loans were to project staff.  Loans for nets and other fishing
equipment were repaid at a rate of about 30% and were stopped in 1981.
Credit to farmer groups (RWF 1.3 million) for construction of storage
facilities and stores was recovered at the rate of 88% and 72%
,t'espectively in Gisaka/Migongo and Bugesera.  These results provided an
;              important lesson which was the difficulty of managing a proper credit
scheme through the auspices of an autonomous regional project authority.
Under the second BGM project, the agricultural credit scheme was changed
significantly so that an existing national rural banking system (Banques
Populaires) provided credit in the project area.  The project credit
scheme was then terminated.



- 21 -
3.26    Project plans called for development of foodcrop marketing through
cooperatives and informal farmer groups. Credit was to be provided to
such entities to purchase transportation, storage, and processing
equipment. This objective was not achieved and only a few storage
facilities were built. In 1978, the project team began to organize
directly marketing for agricultural and livestock products (milk, butter,
t        pineapples, eggs, and some other crops).  These operations proved costly,
requiring heavy project management inputs. They were neither sustainable
without heavy donor finance, nor replicable outside the project area.
Part of the problem was that project staff were left to experiment as they
pleased, with no policy or operational guidance from the Ministry of
Agriculture.
3.27    Seed was provided to farmers directly through the project because,
at least initially, varieties adapted to project areas were not available
and ISAR and the Selected Seed Service (SSS) were unable to satisfy farmer
demand. Project staff experimented with different systems of seed
multiplication (on public land, through seed producing farmers, and on
other available fields).  None of these systems proved satisfactory.
Farmers did not produce high quality seeds because seed prices were fixed
officially and were much too low, taking no account of quality. On public
land, project staff were unable to maintain variety pureness and quality,
largely due to management constraints. As a result, few farmers obtained
improved seed. Seed distribution focused primarily on soya beans (Palmetto
and Davis varieties) which were introduced under the project, groundnuts
(Fatui and HNG 18 varieties), beans (variety 1/2), maize (Bambu and
Katumani varieties), vegetables and, in lesser quantities, sorghum.  The
-        key lesson was that production and distribution of improved seed is a
specialized business, better done by a national organization with the
necessary expertise. This regional specialized entity clearly had
difficulty in developing the required expertise. In retrospect, much more
effort should have been focused, early on, on the national Selected Seed
Service which was and remains very weak.
3.28    Fruit tree seedlings, particularly avocado, guava and papaya
trees, banana stems, and pineapple shoots, were distributed tmder the
project. Avocado trees were particularly successful with farmers.
Pineapple distribution was active but declined significantly when
subsidies were stopped.  Some 6,879,000 forestry seedlings (95%
eucalyptus) were produced in 69 nurseries (the number operating 1981-82).
1,260 ha were planted in Bugesera and 2,551 ha in Gisaka. These figures
are rough since there was little supervision after seedlings were
distributed; loss rates after planting are unknown.  Given technical
.         problems observed (poor spacing, termite attacks), probably no more than a
total of 3,200 ha were actually afforested during the project period, and
the status of these plantations, from what can be observed, is poor,
partioularly in Gisaka/Migongo.
i        3.29    Multiplication fields for forage grass shoots were established in
J        every sector of the project area, at first for Setaria sphacelata, then
Trysacum laxum.  Despite management difficulties for some multiplication
fields, the project met some success in distributing forage grasses, which
were nonexistent before.  In both regions, the areas allocated to these
multiplication fields increased from 59 ha In 1980 to 126 ha in 1982 which
served to supply farmers with shoots necessary for contour line planting
and forage cropping for cattle.
.3A



- 22 -
3.30    Various tools, particularly for erosion control works through
Umuganda (communal compulsory work), were distributed by project staff.
The main constraint proved to be the incapacity of Umuganda work to keep
pace with contour line marking executed by paid laborers (only 20 to 48%
of the marked lines were actually installed). Location lines was not
always optimal and maintenance of contour lines, once installed, was often
poor. Some 21,280 ha were reportedly protected in the project area
between 1978 and 1982, representing 9% of crop lands. According to a
survey carried out in Bugesera in 1981, erosion control was undertaken on
33% of fields where it was thought necessary, but also on 10% of the area
on which it was judged useless. Erosion control was thus partially
successful.
3.31    Insecticides and fungicides were supplied free of charge to
protect seedlings in nurseries and trees in forestry plantations. These
chemicals were sold when used for vegetable crops. These products were
highly effective for vegetables and contributed to the development of
vegetable production.
3.32    Substantial efforts were undertaken to increase distribution of
veterinary products and drugs, both preventive drugs (vaccinations against
Rinderpest and black quarter, deticking, drugs against internal parasites)
and curative (typanocides, antiseptics and antibiotics). Initially
distributed and applied free of charge, these products benefitted up to
40% of the cattle population in Bugesera and 18% in Gisaka/Migongo in
1981. There was, however, a dramatic decline in 1982, when a policy of
partial cost recovery was enforced. Breeding centers were constructed and
stocked in every rural center, with a bull, a ram and a buck. Although
mating was free of charge, these animals remained largely underutilized
during the project period, perhaps because farmers were aware of the
greater susceptibility to disease of crossbreed animals. Heifers (152)
and a few dozen sheep were provided on credit, and about 7,000 hens and
chickens were distributed, mainly in Gashora, where the development center
also produced chicken feed (258 tons sold). In sum, the impact these
activities was marginal.
Training Activities
3.33    Training was defined at appraisal as a key project element,
and several and distinct training activities were undertaken.  First, a
veterinary training center was established at Rubilizi.  This center was
originally designed for agricultural and livestock extension, but later
focused only on livestock (A3 level staff).   Built in 1978 and 1979, the
Center began operating in 1980.  About 30 out of the first 80 graduates
were assigned to work on the project in late 1981. The center tackled the
acute problem of lack of intermediate level livestock staff.  The major
problem remains the center's financial situation, as the Government must
'cover its operating costs. Some further issues emerged on certification
of the center by the Ministry of Education, which remains a problem. A
second training facility, the medical auxillaries training center, was
built in 1980. It began operation in 1982 but insufficient operating fund
allocations by the Ministry of Health considerably slowed its activities.
A third type of training was undertaken in the field, for field level
extension and veterinary staff.  This began in late 1980 in project
training rooms and training centers (one or two week long sessions with



- 23 -
boarding arrangements).  Training of livestock staff was moderately
effective, training of medical auxiliaries and in service training of
extension staff less so.
-         Technical Assistance. Surveys, and Monitoring
3.34    Less technical assistance than planned was actually mobilized;
contrary to appraisal plans technical assistance was provided through a
consultant team financed by FAC (individual recruitment was the
Government's preference at appraisal). The expatriate Project Director,
who was effectively the project manager, remained throughout the project
period (1977-82), despite a lengthy absence in 1980/81 following a car
accident; generally, there was substantial continuity in the management
team. Two expatriate regional Directors, were employed for the full
project period. The expatriate livestock specialist served from 1978 to
1982 but was never supported, as initially planned, by an animal health
specialist.  No cooperative specialist was recruited, but a fishing
specialist visited Rwanda for several months in 1980.  Finally, the
administrative and financial director (also an expatriate) served the from
March 1978 to 1982.  Three volunteers also worked for the project for a
year.  It was regrettable that the cooperative specialist was not
recruited given the importance of cooperatives, and their poor
performance. In addition, a civil works specialist could have been used
profitably during the first three project years, to accelerate
construction and to allow the Regional Directors to concentrate much
earlier on extension activities rather than on construction. A clear gap
in implementation was failure to implement the monitoring and evaluation
program (para 4.01).
Implementation Schedule
3.35    The project was, quite deliberately, implemented on the basis of
annual work plans, which were to take into account operating experience
and allowed significant changes in project investments and activities as
compared with appraisal plans. Therefore, comparison between the
appraisal "indicative" and the actual implementation schedule is not
very meaningful.  Roughly speaking, construction of infrastructure
;         went according to plans (except for roads, stock routes and holding
-         ground, and the Nasho irrigation pilot scheme).  Services to farmers and
training began on a significant scale about two years late, and extension
efforts remain much smaller than planned.
Reporting, Accounting and Audit
M -        3.36    Project reporting performance was good.  Quarterly and annual
,         implementation reports and yearly financial statements were issued on a
regylar basis, in a satisfactory form.  In addition, occasional technical
¶         notes were produced describing achievements on specific components.
Finally, a general statement of achievements by December 31, 1981 was
produced by the expatriate Project Director before his departure and the
two regional offices prepared a summary completion report.



- 24 -
Procurement
3.37    No serious difficulties were encountered in folloving Bank
guidelines procurement. The only issue raised during project
implementation concerned the recruitment of expatriate technical
assistants who, until an agreement was finally reached between IDA and FAC
in 1979, were recruited directly by FAC without consultation with IDA.
The project's centralized management style made it difficult for field
staff to procure the equipment and goods they needed. Orders had to be
established at the regional level, and submitted to the central office in
Kigali for approval; only then were the orders processed, a procedure
which proved rather cumbersome in case of emergency needs.
Project Costs
3.38    Actual project expenditures totalled RWF 2,500 million (USs27.2
million) or roughly 16Z more than anticipated at appraisal. Details are
given in Annex 1. However, these expenditures went for a substantially
different project than planned, and many unit costs were higher than
expected. The following table summarizes, by type of expenses, appraisal
estimates and actual expenses (RWF'000):
Type of Expense                 Appraisal estimate           Actual costs
(including contingencies)
Infrastructure                     939,500                    1,028,951
Materials and equipment             41,800                      416,599
Local salaries and wages            46,900                      534,618
Technical assistance               245,300                      239,473
Other operating costs              504,600                      202,518
Farm inputs                        380.900                       78,040
TOTAL                    2,159,000                   2,500.199
Infrastructure costs were close td appraisal projections, but appraisal
projections included infrastructure which was not constructed (for tsetse
eradication, stock routes and holding grounds, veterinary lab, irrigation
scheme) or not completed (access and feeder roads). Expenses on materials
and equipment were about ten-fold those projected, as were expenditures
for local salaries and wages, This was in part because actual figures
include equipment and material bought to carry out many works on force
account, and because a larger number of permanent and teuiporary staff than
planned were employed by the project unit. Expenses for farm inputs on
-*             the other hand (although most were until 1980 distributed free of charge)
were barely a fifth of projected amounts, a shortfall which reflects
delays and difficulties met in agricultural extension.
jDisbursements (Annex 4)
3.39    Disbursements were completed on November 1982, not long after  the
closing date (September 30, 1982). After initial delays, mainly
explained by the six-month delay in effectiveness, actual disbursements
quickly caught up to appraisal estimates and by end 1980 exceeded them.



- 25 -
Compliance with ma1or covenants
3.40    Most covenants of the Development Credit Agreement were complied
with. A noteworthy exception was that both the Government and the Bank
concluded that it was unrealistic to seek recovery of most project costs
*         from beneficiaries, as planned.  Farmer participation in project cost as
foreseen in the financing plan was supposed to total 82 of project costs.
Some cost recovery efforts were made, notably to sell inputs at market
prices and sell veterinary drugs at cost, but they generally met
considerable difficulty.  The major problem was the lack of clear national
policies in this area which meant that project efforts were piecemeal and
had little Government support.  This issue is being addressed now squarely
i         at a national level.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
4.01    Since no systematic effort was made during project implementation
to monitor farm developments and collect information on participants'
pre-project activities, it is difficult to estimate accurately the
project's impact on agricultural and livestock production. Surveys
carried out in 1980 and 1981 by LAMSEA gathered detailed information on
the project area which has been used in this PCR as a baseline for
estimating changes resulting from the project.
4.02    Activities carried out during the project implementation period
will not have the economic impact expected at appraisal. The preparation
and appraisal teams underestimated the difficulty of implementing such a
complex project. However, it is clear that many investments and changes
introduced under the project were necessary for the long term development
of the areas concerned. These include establishment of two regional
development centers, development of water supply systems, and the
comprehensive network of PAVs which support agricultural and livestock
activities in a large area where rural services were almost nonexistent
before. Much needed administrative and technical staff training was
started, although late and in a rather disorganized manner; extension
activities which served farmer needs were initiated, albeit late.
;         4.03    Agricultural production Increases attributable to the project will
come chiefly from improved seeds, grass shoots and seedlings produced and
distributed. Production increases from improved seeds can be indirectly
estimated using improved yields In areas where the seeds, shoots or
seedlings were distributed.  This estimate indicates an annual production
increase in 1984 of 38 tons of groundnuts, 196 tons of maize, 23 tons of
sorghum, 22 tons of beaus and 88 tons of cassava.  Production increases of
soy beans (introduced under the project) and of coffee are estimated at
respectively 590 tons and 750 tons.  Additional fruit production (mainly
*         avocaUos) is estimated at about 7,500 tons, and of pineapples 1,600 tons.
Vegetable production increases are estimated at some 1,200 tons p.a. and
fuelwood production almost 20,000 tons p.a. Annex 5 gives basic
assumptions for these calculations.  It is noteworthy that these increases
came despite a dearth of appropriate technical packages.  This does not
mean that research/extension linkages are not critically important but
shows that available knowledge provided at least some basis for technical
advances with extension advice.



- 26 -
4.04    Livestock production increases attributable to the project will
come mainly from the development of cattle stall-feeding practices and
forage cropping, which both can be considered as having been introduced
and developed under the project with some success. Veterinary treatments
may have had an impact in 1980 when a significant part of the herd was
treated against ticks and internal parasites, but no benefits are included
because the 1980 performance was not sustained thereafter. Stall-feeding
practices supported an increase in the calf weaning rate from 40% to 66X a
year and consumable milk production per cow increased from 200 to 700
liters a year. Forage introduced under the project and used as animal
feed produced 1 Kg of meat per 50 Kg of forage. Total additional
production per year from these activities is thus estimated at nearly 650
calves or heifers per year, 325,000 liters of milk and over 600 tons of
meat.
4.05    A notable technical innovation was the introduction of
livestock-agriculture integration techniques in the framework of the
cattle stall feeding ("Fermettes") extension program. Although a recent
survey of existing "fermettes" shows that most farmers had adopted
stall-feeding practices because of manure production (used as fertilizer),
the use of manure still remains marginal and will probably not lead in the
short term to significant further crop yield increases.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS
Economic benefits (Annex 6)
5.01 At appraisal, the economic rate of return on directly productive
project components was estimated at 32X (para 2.25). Costs consid;xcad in
the new ERR estimate are given in Annex 1. As at appraisal, costs of
activities not directly related to production are excluded. It was
assumed that without the project, operating costs would have been the
following from year 6:
a)      502 of the "otner operating costs";
b)      Year 1 level for consumed materials;
c)      Staff financed from local budget at year 1;
d)      Same level of inputs as in year 5.
Economic costs were obtained through deduction of 20% on fuel, oil and
vehicle spare parts (average tax and duty). The economic rate of return
was estimated to be 52.  It falls to 3% with costs increased by 10% to
include farm labor.
'5.02    Such estimates have limited significance since the project was the
beginning of a long term development program, and it is hazardous to
assign benefits to a single part of that program. However, the limited
production increases (Chapter IV) resulted in part from limited
agricultural extension effort, and relatively heavy early expenditures on
infrastructure. The introduction of new seeds, seedlings, and stall
feeding of animals accounted for most increased production. The majority
of farmers simply continued to practice their traditional cultivation



- 27 -
techniques.  Some incremental production resulted from spontaneous
migration, but also from settlements supported and assisted under the
project. However, even these increases bring risks as increased
population in the project area is likely to cause reduced fallow and, in
time, declining soil fertility and increased erosion. Some of the
infrastructure developed (particularly the extension and animal health
centers, roads, water supply, social infrastracture and the training
center) were indispensable for the phase two BGS project. The two
prolects viewed together may have a better economic rate of return. The
possibility for greater and more sustained longterm beneflts is clearly
linked both to the effectiveness of organizing services and to continuing
efforts to identify technical innovations which are attractive to farmers
in the area.
Other Benefits
5.03    The project did not generate significant increases in family
incomes. However, the number of people who benefitted from the project
was higher than expected at appraisal, mainly because of high population
increases in the area during the project period (population in 1982 was
more than double that estimated at appraisal in 1975). Social
infrastructure (health centers, schools, roads and particularly drinking
water supply) have no doubt benefitted several thousand families., Many
more people have benefitted at least to some extent from the services
extended by the project which, although irregular, now cover the entire
project area.
5.04    Some input distribution activities carried out under the project
(which led to most production benefits, along with immigration) have been
institutionalized in sustainable systems. Forestry and fruit trees
nurseries which still function were created at the communal and sector
level. Seedlings are produced regularly and at relatively low cost;
various kinds of seedlings are thus available to most farmers. At
present, only seeds and plastic bags still need to be supplied through
official channels; all other costs can be financed by the local
community. Forage multiplication fields installed under the project can
also be eesily financed at cammunal and sectoral levels* Vegetable seeds,
introduced under the project, are now mostly supplied by private dealers.
Cows for the creation of 'fermettes' are more easily accessible now, due
to their introduction under the project. Regrettably, the project did not
develop a successful distribution system for tools and plant treatment
productse. Distribution of basic veterinary products (acaricides,
anti-parasite drugs, vaccines and other curative drugs) was poorly
organized, and the supply and use of such products has not been
sustained. Breeding centers established throughout the project areas
produced disappointing results.
5.05    Project marketing interventions yielded few benefits and were not
sustained. Efforts included purchase and sale of agricultural commodities
to stabilize prices, direct purchases from farmers and grouping of sales,
and subsidized transport. A more successful marketing intervention was
road construction, which facilitated agricultural marketing in some
areas. In addition, several market places were developed under the
project, which helped marketing in a visible, but unquantified manner.



- 28 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.01    In institutional development, there were marked differences
between appraisal intentions and what actually transpired during
implementation. The appraisal mission worked out implementation
arrangements carefully, with active Government participation (paras 2.07,
2.12). The main concerns then were to avoid the already well known
problems associated with creating a new parastatal organization (like
OVAPAM, the troubled Mutara project authority), and to work primarily with
existing Rwandese Institutions and farmer groups, as this was seen as the
only way to ensure sustainability of activities undertaken. The plan
called for Rwandese ministry services and cooperatives to take over
development activities as soon as possible.
6.02    The Proiect Coordination Committee (PCC):  was created by
Presidential decree in November I9i7, constituted as planned at appraisal
(para. 2.22). In practice, it met 13 times or once every 3-4 months.
Meeting reports show that much time was spent in initial years in
arbritrating conflicts of authority within project management. As a
result, much attention was given to setting up internal project
regulations and discussion of staff working conditions, in order to
establish and consolidate the project entity. This went counter to the
initial objective of avoiding the creation of new institutions.
Strikingly, meeting reports do not mention the role of coperatives in
project execution, although the Government, during appraisal, had strongly
favored a central role for cooperatives; for example the DCA stipulated
that agricultural credit funds for input supply, marketing and processing
pass through cooperatives. In practice, the PCC never considered the
cooperatives, or even the communes, as important potential partners. In
retrospect, the PCC's working conditions, notably lack of staff support
and time necessary to understand project objectives or analyse problems in
sufficient detail, partly explain why the PCC could not prevent these
changes in the project's implementation principles. During an interview
with a PCC member he suggested that participants often tended to react to
problems according to their own ideas and interests rather than their
ministry's positions.
6.03    The PCC was to delegate part of its responsibilities to a
management committee, chaired by the PCC Permanent Secretary and including
the project manager and the two regional directors (para. 2.22).  This
committee did not in fact operate as planned and its role soon overlapped
with the management team, partly because of initial confusion of
responsibilities because the PCC Permanent Secretary was also Project
Co-Director. The management team itself was deeply influenced by the
strong personality of the expatriate project manager, who tended to
operate more as the manager of a strongly centralized private enterprise
than as the coordinator and moderator of a team whose responsibility was
j
te assist national institutions in developing sustainable activities.
Internal regulations adopted in May 1980 formalized the allocation of
responsibilities within the management team, designed primarily to resolve
tensions between the large team of expatriates and Rwanda staff, whose
status and authority were uncertain. This move, in effect, turned the
project structure into a heavily centralized and strongly graded entity,
far from the light organization which was intended. In a similar vein,
annual work plans were prepared by the management team with no formal
. 



- 29 -
participation by either the comunes or cooperativGs and, until 1980, were
finalized by the project manager himself. It is surprising that these
organizational developments, which were inconsistent with initial
institutional objectives, and which plainly could not survive the
withdrawal of external financing, met no objection either from the PCC or
from IDA.   The effects were clear and probably inevitable: a significant
part of project resources was directed towards the project's own
structural development: the small Kigali coordinating office became a huge
500 m2 complex, the regional development centers were conceived as if they
were to be managed forever by the project, and a special statute was
adopted for Rwandese project staff.
6.04    Financial management was well handled throughout the project
period, under the leadership of the expatriate financial manager.  Project
accounts were regularly audited and never questionned either by the PCC or
the co-financiers. Implemented along the OCAM system, project accounting
was managed so as to ensure significant staff training. From 1978, annual
budgets and progress reports were presented according to type of expenses
by activity, in order to facilitate coordination between technical control
and financial monitoring and more easily compute unit prices. Although
called analytical accounting, the system was in practice not precise
enough to permit effective financial and technical monitoring of project
sub-components.
6.05    Technical management suffered from the lack of qualified Rwandese
staff during the first half of the project period and from continuing
failure to fill technical assistance positions for some key project
activities. As no cooperative specialist or civil work specialist was
ever recruited, a significant part of the regional directors' time went
organize and supervise the project's huge infrastructure program, Thanks
to the good will and hard work of the incumbents, many activities directly
executed by the project were successfully launched but were unfortunately
never taken over by the beneficiaries. An evident conclusion from the
experience was that the effort required to carry out the project - human
and financial - and to establish a lasting institutional base was
seriously underestimated.
6.06    The project was appraised when the Rwandese Government was opting
for a policy of administrative decentralization which tended to reinforce
the responsibilities and financial means of the communes. Communal
participation in project activities was thought the more necessary as
management and maintenance of most planned infrastructure was a communal
*            responsibility (roads, water supply, reafforestation, erosion control,
etc.).  However, since no formal institutional framework for  good
cooperation between the communes and the project was foreseen, relations
developed unevenly according to personalities. They were sometimes
excdellent, sometimes disastrous.  The project was often perceived as a
foreign entity not belonging to Rwandese structures.  This situation was
A            partly corrected in 1981, when communal authorities began to participate
directly in the elaboration of project work programs.
A            6.07    Cooperatives were initially expected to become the main project
A            executing institutions.  The expectations were founded principally on the
encouraging results of previous AIDR work with cooperatives in Kibungo
Prefecture.  In 1975 the Kibungo experiment had seemed positive enough to



- 30 -
convince the "Banques Populaires' to locate some of their first field
branch offices theTe. In 1975, in the three communes concerned by the
project, there were 10 cooperatives, with a total membership of 4,578,
active in marketing of agricultural products and consumer goods. The main
problems they had to face were associated with management. As discussed
above (para 3.23) it is regrettable that the project confined its
cooperative suport to limited direct assistance, and that coordination
with the responsible ministry and local authorities in this area was
poor.  On the other hand, an effective program would plainly have required
special resources and will take a long time.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01    At the time the project was prepared and appraised, the Bank's
knowledge of Rwanda's agricultural sector was somewhat limited.  Only one
agricultural project had been implemented and little formal sector work
had been undertaken. This partly explains the substantial changes in
project definition and objectives between identification and appraisal,
reflecting some uncertainties by Bank staff on the main constraints and
development priorities for Rwanda's rural sector. Difficulties
experienced during Implementation of the Mutara Project, the only on-going
Bank financed agricultural project in Rwanda during preparation,
demonstrated that local conditions were evolving rapidly, in a context
where rural development policies had not yet been clearly defined.
7.02    Despite a serious lack of general data on the project area, an
interesting project proposal was defined and prepared in a relatively
timely and effective manner.  The preparation process, however, displayed
some shortcomings: (i) more intensive Bank participation in the
preparation process would have been desirable (the short mission formula
did not allow sufficient interaction with the Government and technical
review); and (ii) insufficient effort to place the project in a national
context and to appreciate fully the impact of unclear and evolving rural
development policies, notably on prices, settlement control and
organizational systems, and to benefit from other project experiences.
The decision not to insist on a full preparation report was probably
mistaken. To a significant extent these shortcomings were corrected at the
appraisal stage, when all project components and conditions of
implementation were examined in detail.
7.03    Issues raised at appraisal were appropriate, particularly with
regard to project organization and implementation and the shift in
A           emphasis from formal settlement schemes to the development of agricultural
services.  The recommendation to leave enough time for the Government to
become fully involved and agree to all aspects of the project was wise.
The recommended flexibility to permit adaptation to changing circumstances
(thus recognizing some degree of uncertainty about project design) was
idnovative in 1975. It is interesting that despite the long lapsed time
for appraisal, manpower expenditures were relatively low, at 30 staff
weeks.  The appraisal process followed had a favorable impact on the final
project design, as it led to significant Government understanding of and
commitment to the project content and positive decisions on project
organization. Delays in appraisal were, in restrospect, plainly
worthwhile.
.I



- 31 -
7.04    Implementation experience suggests that the project was too large
and complex given the situation prevailing at the time in Rwanda (lack
of appropriate technologies, lack of staff, lack of clear policies) and in
the project area (rapid inmigration and communication difficulties). The
effort needed to implement the project - human and financial - and to
establish a lasting institutional base was seriously underestimated.
However, the system of scheduling investments on the basis of agreed
annual work programs and budgets could have kept implementation within the
limits of what was feasible, had the system been properly applied, as each
annual plan was to be based on explicit reconsideration of what was
feasible in the light of experience gained. Regrettably, it was not fully
applied. In practice, difficulties in finalizing co-financing
arrangements (particularly with FAC) and various management dilemmas
(definition of responsibilities) diverted supervision missions from
dealing adequately with two main issues: implementation capacity and
institutional development. The consequences were serious as: (i) the main
project technical objective (development of production through extension
services and availability of inputs) was only partly met; and vii) the
project institutional objective was reversed (instead of handing over
project activities to local institutions, the project structure became
overcentralized and non sustainable).
7.05     It is difficult to judge whether these shortcomings could have
been avoided. It would have been preferable to settle all co-financing
arrangements before project start up, but the Government was keen on FAC
involvement, which presented important comparative advantages.  The issue
of Government implementation capacity was raised at appraisal and could
have been resolved by drastically reducing the scope of the annual work
plans during the two or three first years of implementation. Thie would
have delayed project implementation by two or three years and would
probably have created more awareness of the adverse institutional
evolution which was developing. Supervision missions were probably not
intensive enough in such circumstances to react adequately to all pressing
issues raised, particularly during the first three years of
implementation. Also notable is that more effective timing and a broader
mix of disciplines could have had a material and beneficial impact on
project implementation. The time spent on supervision was, nonetheless
substantial: a total of 120 staffweeks over some five years. It is
striking that very high inputs were required during the period when
cofinancing arrangements were reworked. Intensive supervision during the
final project years proved particularly beneficial in defining issues for
transition to thd second phase project and working towards solutions.
7.06    An effective dialogue on both project snd sector issues developed
between the Bank and Government during the life of this project. This can
be attributed to a significant degreee to the vehicle afforded by this
project and the flexibile approach adopted: learning, at least in part, by
dding. This improving operational dialogue stood in marked contrast to
the situation before 1975. The improvement was due in part to the process
of project appraisal, where the Government was given the opportunity to
review the project in depth and to define its own policy orientations
among several alternatives, and to intensive and careful supervision
efforts. From appraisal on, the dialogue with the Government was
constructive and collaborative even on thorny issues like technical
assistance and cost recovery. The Government observed, however, that



- 32 -
supervision missions were generally too short and tended to limit
themselves too often to criticizing what was being done and imposing
changes which did not always lead to improvements. The project experience
might have been used earlier and more systematically as a springboard for
practical sector dialogue on key issues like cost recovery and
sustainability.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND OUTSTANDING ISSUES
8.01    Although the project was not fully completed, the credit closed in
December 1982.  Credit 1283-RW for the follow-on project became effective
in March 1983, with a PPF advance facilitating a smooth transition between
the two phases. Although the project did not have the expected impact on
agricultural production, achievements were substantial, mostly in terms of
infrastructure development, experience acquired by Rwandese staff, and
social changes.  The project laid a solid base for the further development
of the Bugesera and Gisaka/Nigongo regions.
8.02    Although the two regional centers responsible for extension
activities were not fully staffed until late 1981, a number of activities,
including extension work and distribution of various inputs, were carried
out with some success. This came despite a dearth of power, attractive
technical packages and research adapted to the area. Plainly, some
progress could be made with existing knowledge but sustained, long term
progress depended on proper research and better research/extension
linkages. Livestock programs were hampered by an acute shortage of
qualified staff almost throughout.  Their Impact on production was,
therefore, limited although veterinary products were introduced and
collective pastures, which could be developed in the future, were
identified.  The two commercial fattening ranches proved to be non viable
but the Rusumo station, despite numerous management problems, remains a
potentially productive asset. An important program of rural
Infrastructure development was completed, including a center at Kigali,
two regional centers, staff housing, and 20 PAVs. However, much of the
work program for access and feeder roads was not completed due primarily
to higher than expected costs. Health centers and schools were
constructed in the two regions. Most of the water supply program was also
completed. Two training centers were established and are operating. The
professional training program was changed and delayed. The Rubilizi
training center, which was meant to train veterinary extension workers,
was eventually transformed into a national veterinary and animal
production training center. Training in the regional centers began only
in 1981.  By the end of 1982, project infrastructure was considered almost
completed and extension services had, at length, become a main concern of
project management. Project planning and execution were the
responsibility of regional directors and Rwandese officials had assumed
all project management responsibilities.
A
8.03    Important problems which emerged during project implementation and
preparation of the follow-on project include:
(1)     Too many buildings, generally on too large a scale, and
often poorly designed were developed, so the Government
faces serious difficulties in financing proper maintenance.
Future use of this infrastructure is uncertain now that



- 33 -
activities have been reduced, and not all of it
indispensable for Government agricultural services;
(ii)    Substantial numbers of staff were hired over the project
period for specific activities, but almost none of them was
dismissed when the need ended. Similarly, the project
organization was built up to the point that it now
represents a new institution which the Government is unable.
to maintain with its own resources and which is in any event
disproportionate in size for the project area;
(iii)   almost no agricultural research was undertaken during
project implementation, leaving, at project completion, much
work to be done to identify, experiment with, and implement
relevant extension themes for the project area;
(iv)    no monitoring was undertaken, nor systematic technical
surveys carried out, so that apart from the IAMSEA surveys
there is no basic technical data on which a program of
future actions can be professionally built up; and
(v)     although project staff appears better qualified at project
completion than it was when it started, as far as formal
training is concerned, few acquired a real professional
qualification, or are more motivated to build up and manage
efficient extension services.
8.04    During appraisal of the second phase prolect, in May-June 1981,
changes were introduced in the concept and organization of planned
activities taking into account experience of the BGK I project and of
other rural development projects in Rwanda. The project included a
research component to introduce applied research and farming system
techniques. This component is being managed by ISAR from the Karama
research station located in the project area. Emphasis was placed on
extension staff training and on-farm demonstrations to be reinforced by
distribution of inputs. Livestock activities were to be organized around
associations of producers. The project placed greater emphasis on
improvement of feeder roads and bridge construction to facilitate
transport and give access to several isolated areas. Finally, project
staff were to plan, execute, and monitor agricultural and pastoral
activities in the project area in close coordination with local
authorities. Other changes included the introduction of a project
monitoring and evaluation unit. Funds were provided to help the Rusumo
station to become financially autonomous but the Gako and Nasho ranches
received no further support. On project structure, the decentralization
of responsibilities from Kigali to the regions is a main feature of the
second phase project. The project included two components which were
eiplicitly designed as pilot efforts for future national programs:
nutrition centers and a family planning program. These activities and
road development are managed by the relevant ministries.
8.05    Design of the second phase project thus benefits directly from
experience acquired: less numerous components managed by the relevant
institutions, decentralization of responsibilities, elimination of non
viable components, introduction of research activities, direct focus on



34 -
extension, and better coordination with local authorities.  Unfortunately,
the second phase project also inherited some problems from its
predecessor:
(i)     an infrastructure out of proportion to real needs which
the Government cannot maintain;
(ii)    a very numerous staff (an average of 70 agents per commune)
whose salaries cannot be supported by the Government budget
and which is disproportionate to real needs;
(iii)   working habits poorly adapted to the required
concentration of efforts on priority topics; and
(iv)    a still poor information base on the project area,
which is indispensable for proper planning of extension
activities.
8.06    These problems are gradually being addressed through a more
rigorous administration involving definition of tasks and Implementation
of routine work schedules for every staff member, concentration of
activities on what can effectively be achieved and attempts to develop a
more logical and more professional working approach to achieving defined
objectives. Much imagination will, however, be necessary to allow useful
utilization and maintenance of all infrastructure constructed; painful
reductions of staff and means will have to be imposed before reaching the
small number of qualified staff required for lasting agricultural
development programs in the area.
8.07     The project  experience  suggests  s*veral  lessons, which are of
particular interest because many are common to area-based integrated rural
development projects:
(a) The appraisal process was% nrotracted and involved a series of
missions and discussions with the Governmrnt. The prim_ry objec-
tive of this process, which was deliberately planned, was to
ensure full government commitment to the project and to await
government  decisions  on   key   issues,  notably  implementation
arrangements. The process worked quite well in focusing policy
makers' attention on the project (paras. 2.04-2.18) and in over-
coming problems from insufficient government involvement earlier
(see (h) below);
(b) The project was designed with considerable flexibility; annual
implementation plans were to be agreed upon by the Government and
IDA, and  it  ws  expected  that  these would reflect experience
gained and depart substantially from appraisal estimates. The
system showed great promise, but did not work as well as it should
have because of insufficient attention to it from the Government
end IDA. Special efforts were called for to ensure that key proj-



_ 35 _
*ct objectives remained constantly in view and to test continually
the sustainability of actions undertaken (pares. 2.24, 6.03 and
7.04);
(c) This was one of the Region's first instances of use of the Proiect
Prevargtion Facility. It proved a lightly effective way to speed
start-up and sustain momentum between appraisal and implementation
(paras. 2.14, 3.02). A PPF also smoothed the transition between
the first and second projects (para. 8.01);
(d) Even though the project was conceived as an integrated development
project, lt included too many components. Non-agricultural activ-
ities should have been postponed or assigned to other lnstitu-
tions* This would have allowed project staff, who came under the
Miniatry of Agriculture, to  concentrate  ou agriculture and live-
stock  development  activities  (the  project's  chief  objective)
rather than on other areas (par-s. 2.18, 7.04);
(e)  Co-financina arrantements  came unstuck  after  approval  and the
resulting uncertainties and changes seriously perturbed project
implementation. Coordination arrangements  for  the key work pro-
gram exercise were not warked  out in sufficient detail.  Numerous
co-financier meetings during implementation monopolized time and
attentlon of project and supervision staff (paras. 3.03-3.06);
(f) A more thorough and reallstic assessment at appraisal of recurrent
costs and mechanisms for cost recovery, including analysis of
prospects for  sustainability  of  activities  and services, might
have brought home the vital importance of these issues earlier.
Moro specific policy agreements should have been negotiated and
applled. Notwithstanding, these issues need to be addressed pri-
marily in the context  of  a broader  sector dialogue between the
Government and the Bank, whilch had hardly gotten underway when
this project was designed, but is now far advanced (paras. 3.40,
7 06);
(g) Key decisions on the institutional framework for a project must
plainly be made by the Government (as was indeed the case in this
project), but with special attention to financial sustainability
issues.   Appraisal  agreements  called  for  reliance on existing
lnstitutions and farmers' groups but this objective was largely
forgotten. The project unit became a large autonomous bureaucracy
seen as a foreign providential source of finance by local
authorities (paras. 2.07, 2.12, 3.11-3.12, 8.03);
(h)  The lack of  sustained  Rwandese  official  involvement in proiect
identification and Preparation  posed  serious problems of govern-
ment commitment and placed too much  onus on Bank missions to pro-
pose specific project ideas. This is an appropriate area for the
Bank to insist on full government lnvolvement (paras. 2.02, 2.18,
7 02);
4



- 36 -
(i) The technical data base for this project was weak, and even avail-
able documentation (maps, descriptive reports, statistics) were
not fully  communicated  to  project  staff.    More  attention to
specific arrangements for plugging information gaps was needed;
(j) Although supervision time spent ws, as anticipated, relatively
high, substantial time went to resolving cofinancing problems, and
the conclusion is that more  intensive supervision, well timed and
including a wider mix of expertise, would have been beneficial.
The experience demonstrates clearly that a flexible project design
calls for greater inputs by IDA and the Government during imple-
mentation. Areas where more supervision could have helped were:
problems of agricultural *xtension, training, monitoring and eval-
uation, cost  recovery,  and  input  supply.   Project supervision
axperience could have been used *arlier as a springboard to a
broad-based sector dialogue in many areas (paras. 7.05-7.06);
(k)  Technical assistance was  critical,  but arrangements posed impor-
tant problems.   This  experience  underscores the difficulties in
using technical assistance well.   Expatriate technical assistants
are rarely well accopted in managerial positions and the record of
training and motivating local staff was disappointing. They were
often underutilized when assigned as local manager counterparts or
advisors. One conclusion is that frequent short-term consultan-
cies seem preferable to permanent expatriate positions in many
instances. Much effort was fruitlessly expended in sorting out
rasponsibilities within the  project management  team.   Lines of
command and term  of reforence for  staff at all levels need to be
clearly defined at the outset and clearly communicated to individ-
uals. Vigorous follow-up is also needed (paras. 3.05, 3.08-3.09).
An important achievement was tnat at project completion Rwandese
staff held all project management positions (para. 8.02);
(1) Attention to extension systems and research-extension linkages was
insufficient.  Specific  attention  to  linkages with agricultural
research are critical for a project like thls whose success
depends on strong extension  themes  adapted  to the area in ques-
tion. The preferred solution is to rely on a solid national
research program, but in a case like this (the national research
was on a rapidly descendlng slope during implementation), a well
designed research component is essential (pras. 3.21, 8.03);
(m) The tsets- eradication component was problematic and its outcome
generally disappointing, pointing to the need for a regional
(l.e., international) approach to the p-oblem and special atten-
tion to environme:t.al implications (par&. 3.17, Annex 2). In
contrast, the experience with soil erosion control and rural
afforestation gives some grounds for optimism that progress can be
achieved (paras. 3.30, 4.05, 5.04).



-37-
RUAM
surtSEsA usT. GISAEAIIICOnIo MIXED 1IUII3
AND hEAL D3VEWXMT PrOJCT
PRJCT COIPlET1IOM ROIRT
A',rawrel Estibte. of fro1ect Costs
Local       ForeIgn       Total        Local        Poreiln     Total
-f-           ' mllion-   - W00                                  -
Proiact Coanonente
Tsetse eradication                               23,8         15.0         38.8         256         162           418
Extenslon services and Infrastructure           172,3        100.3        272.6       11856       1,060         2,936
Agricultural Inputs - Farer Credit               191.8        71,9        263.7       2,066         774         2,64q
Access and Fweder Roads                          73.6         22.1         95.7         793         235         1,031
Water Developmet                                 50,4        115.2        165.6         543       1,241         1,784
Social lnfratructure                             3.7          18.8         50,5         341         203           544
Livestock Development/excl. extension            139,8        43,1         182 9      1,506         464         1,970
North Glmaka pilot irrigation station            47,4         67,6         11,0        511         728         1,239
Technical Serviceo                               157.3       146.8        30          1.694       1.581         3.275
Total                                           18lJ.        600.8      1,486.9       9.566       6.571        16.037
Contingencles
Physical contingences                           107,8         68,7        175,7       1,153         740         18893
Price contlngencies                              295.6       198.9        4945        3.184       2.142         S.326
Total contingencies                             402.6        267.6        670.2       4.337       2.882         7.219
Project Total Costs                           1.290.6        868.5      2.159.1       1.390       9.355        23.256
. '



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 -M=
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  --M  --=-- 71
1-it"Iso" ~ ~~~~~~~a bwt                          w         -    -                 --ie
atodl-mood             f-                                                                                                o __
1                  S;ISI_  _  _"P~~~~~~Gold,                                                                                                      A".w  *^u  de af" ",     w   e-_
''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o                                        -IRAM  :             -|.AM,>. -a"    _4wu                 J,EM-* _t_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-AaM    _a                                        -Alw       _*_   _                          =f _-.& s  TOM* rnt-
4_B@1_*.§~_,n__,_ S
---l__ f_~~~~~~~~~12 .M                                                                IS*            3As"                 I.M. -2141   
'  _   _U  3._ *._ 1^. *._ * n._ = ff,i llt   --6    _ U                     -l=  --A             _     J.
_T ¢~~~~~w                SaWY  --U    *.%            -JLM       --                  -.&M s    -ALMWl   t              o    Fte1.           _t1  eIsmw  I-ama 1
_aw                  -         l._         t_      _~~~~~-A  -am                        -nasl            '_
ff__o3                                 --A                    __L        --,=           .    -4L    _         -A,rAW  fi
-oe                                                           -06  -wt  --h||a  _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC   r 66M   * I*l 6. salM   tl6141sot  LP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Omm. I'llo. , *  It"a Usd 11sast lda,
num, dJI_af somm s                                                        --"                   -I ,t"  aX =s           ft t   t3=a                     dEC
., d 8 8 Y_ _1X zau o1oo,.L
w"m                                      _;;ta                                                                                 Psadd M.  I tt lsa   ts l   « ..........r
V Im1osso, _o_tae                   d                   __ VWan -       r -AM
T~~~~~~~~~~~~3i                           35.         315    2691   U.v                 t$.Q        1 0                  111 07
; _L=z It ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,10                                   loaw       LG.        WAS_  le.             464            14.0 1 l
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a                                            -AM       -JL    _ A            -Am            -  u #^1' 1 UIn



-39-                                                              Ausx I
Tab-le 3
A.m
X~~~S.m                   ,          =v  -       .          -     ,    .. -s  '....
: *.se dr .                               1 :
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m .m  t_   GUM.|e W& U  sl                    JO   A         J Je 06JUASkI4, JM
MkIWn -                                                                &l
a   aA.. _
UYIUhmkS~                          --__Gi;                                                                GiE*j= :iii fiEii-f fl-  A    A  A  =:   l
'm___ , _apugo ,ua  _    -    .   *  -.  *_- .i   .A            * UrA   a        A   a     A    a
*                *s    _   _U                                                                                                  _  -  - __ -I o   fi- *--
: |~~_                                              '~inL
te.am*           _    . - __ -s                            ,                                                    . _4i- I
au  Wa                                          'em on    ~           ~          - .a-a  A  a  -
.,__s        i _              ng. ."....
__- i4temul             _                                            _                        _ MI
M.ug.sI3-3 -_    _ l   l_ 
*i 3U                    ,                                                       lw---f -
_tmMM                                                                                                      "Mm It.b-
*  jowl" u&t                  :Ui                                             =-   .  i   *   sin          -" o,uds&W
j-               ala__@ baal                 ___=               _,__                    - -  *-=                             "="0_
*~~~~~_ U_5   r                        _     _ o _ _ooSv___  *I   * ..a- ..- L -                            ___10
_11S     ~      __           __              _______lue
*           IrlW ,_------~                                                                                            -N__-_
39 3_1 ..a    -,r                                                                            -
_ few              _                    U. 1n  tm  00  urn                                                t.  ba t    3I Ono
ana   inbE                                'n l.
V-inal -         -      1   =-    -  -                 *-          V -wdl-l     .      |     - -            -              * I
*  T~~~SI UUOin   1.  . -   -       . ~~~~~~~    .im         *   *   *31  -       a   3   irn. Anu   u~ 
1-
MM.i.W   hU  uoatt..           itant          .      .~ MO          ft tea.m,   To U.  Mt  a     ftu        s-  -o- s
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.m
LI  MMnaad titl& asbeesa.                                        Lv  ftume. -wfeme se    an  nub
V1
.1-
.{~~~~~~~~~0



.  " . . .                     - -  - -                                     .- :.:.m... w
..~-um~---                         .-.-.w...ce--.                           --i                     -                      -- 3660.--_
3066                ~~~~ ~ ~~46A4  631.0       2.         0.2         62 0        220.0         1461.9        24           6.Iu      I.111        46          0         %.166        1se
3                                    -AU M       .lJ         . I           hZ         i.J         -.1                          ins         .-A                     a           in        ...m           -a
366  Wm6.2                                       166.1        216.1        W&           12.0       140.2         2I.J          16           6.6006    2.020        Ott         221       6.M60         2.242                  a.
esowe.. 0.mb.                           62.6        *           26           0..    .     6.. .    .                2..    .    4.,             .        64           ,                  ., .             ole           C-
IsIeeows.606                            ML                        . A   MA   AAA MA                                              l                                               l 5  a      -             £
362  w                               402         .            40.2        2.1          20.2        .             20.2         62             *         826         n0         266          -            0
_ 1s.                                                                       4.1                                  16.o  s.       o                                                                                          6    I 062 sn  so
86660mg 3016                26.0~~~~IS   4.4         *0.4         1.0         5.0          0.0          66.0         60             02        M6          St          226                                           CA" i04~6
am0  3016                             "A.          2.0         66.0        6.3          0.0          2.0                       no22248                  24          6           M5                                            cat.666424
-.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _*m_
_3060                                  0.6         1.6          2.                     4 ,.,        ,.          ,.,                         2                                  S n                      M
ne- 6        6                                                  U                       LA           LA           L.                          J          -I J                    I j        .5            ad
on" GM                                 04          2.0          &A                       0.0         2.0           2.0           0            U          is                                 U 01                              CA" 6 
6e -  _6 _                                                                                                                                                                                                                 _,
2.0         6.0         0.6         6.           0.6          6.6          0.8           22            68t       of         Is                      It            46.66.64in6060
66666.264LA U                                       U            A         La U          L                                       t            J          At a                   J .R       .1                                ou"I d 9U
364301 Go"                           _U           -A          .15.       4.            .1.          -LA          MA.           _lA                       M    U i  _                       A             in                   -6 oG
W". 86046mnm  u0 30824                460A         6.          3.4A        6.2         22.6         64.0         42.6          322          6so         02*        St          us          M4            020326 to"                   6 alu 4  006246646 a
-          - -0  a20l20.  -                                                                                                                                                                                                 66.60 d.106  .663.6 3sa|afa     a|sau
g~~~~ad.   n.                                                                                                                                                                                                      *.aulw.* w.64- *. ,, _  , n*w-'
',                          2.0          2.6          .6.0       .6.          0.0          2.0 _6.0                   M _M                    no          62         at           6            VIS                  a*  d
U" 6060                               66.36       66A          40.2        2.2          16.0        20.0         02.0                                              to61  3 2    M6         S"1          .04                    860
30166330~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.9                           6. 8pm                                It's.930U 44683mgo
in"      30an                          2.6        18.6          2.0         .             .2        62.0         62.41          26           M0         so2                                no6  6        62                    u2.4     ,
8064*3060                 2.0        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~60.0  22.     2. 8.0                  46.0          26.6          26            "a0                              sit*  3     220lf,                             a8. d-       I-u
30.110440 w202                                                                                                                                                                                                                ft66    2.P
622.3326ft                          .MA           NLA          9.         MA5            .  A        L A         MA1           AU            in    AuS             9           .  M                        i   u               A
Sam 2.060                           3.5         9.5         U3.A        -W.                                    I ..  .       in           Lo5        IEa         U           lii       LAm           2.12                    G.A. o4
2623.2      20.2        4462   26      . 2        210         220          030          23             .6        3.00ok ma                                        I."'66 2.2   .160MaLi.kinin -



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
-'I                                                                             Table 5
Proiecc Accual Costs
Costs per Component
(RWF '000)
I
'1
.,
1M    17   190  till   12
Surveys                                         1t9   15010  1fi  107?  10191  195
Tsetse Eradication                                 *     0  10041   31    402  13774
Extension                                       2041 126023 LOm27  19104  112 311992
Access and Feeder roads                          13W                      1 10196  3742   U 3069  3911
Water Supply                                   2096  M112  2A   IN79  6151  4334
Ranches                                          4011  961  2703   7       7   4926
Social Infrastructure                           2145  34195  2130  34..j    0  0wo
Technical assistance                            SOW   44112  9133        2422 23947n
Equipment                                       457  735  12M'& 11M4  507 41651?
S/Total                                  41043  3243  44U5   217217 268995 1U5
Consumed material                         1.      9   26849  1316  4'    4154  14417
Other operating costs                          i~~1   19441  21079 z....  14476 10375
Staff        3i c0  93022 145015 113467  159  4370
Staff                               2~~~~~~~~~~S  553   253   is  I    33
Financial charges                                      -    1     17612  I69   75I(0
Inputs
S/Total                                  11869 1629I4 209362 2   1106  615175
Total                                  MM  52z67  549  467777 355 2O1
_
-1
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 42 -
Annex 1
Table 6
Pro4ect ACtual Costs
Costs Per CaCesOries
(RWF '000)
117;    971im  m9o    11.1    23    IgTOW
Surveys                                    1040   15010  1555   10702  101X!  S1il"
Tsetse eradication                            I       0   100I   3=31    42   12774
Kigali infrastructures                      6840   1:U44    1002    152     0    2
Regional  infrastructures                  44465  34171  31095   428   1M7  12i:'
Training  centre                           2433  33105    7443    534       0   UM2
PAY                                         IIV   4IS;2  43843   S145   2217   iSio
Ranches                                     4071   1411  27403   7745    31:   I1:sa
Farmers settlement                            5   2402   7634   22ff    Oi4   I"A2
Fishing                                       0    97o       0    390       i    1354
Communal fields.                             412    .0    1130    078       a    MA20
Pastures                                      I       0   21    OS3   1215         t
Erosion control                                0      O3512
Slaughtor houses                                      I   3770   *10       94   4154
Silos                                          o         O  13     550     II   n9
,4'              Social  centres                              ISO    50   1230    2I0        0    1EQ
Schools                                     15* 5   31U45  n33o 5           0   471s0
Water Supply                               2M01 51 12   2U    70071   U15S  :. '
Roads and feeder roads                       132   10114   C 1412    4f3    ICL9   .iz
0
Total infrastructure                       39   255332  24H2I  121:41  S453  102lSl
Works on force account                      41841  152B37  117130  431710  17C50  459d6
Balance                                    22034  1021.   5111'1  713    77A5U   s5l3
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mlaterial and equipment                  4. 6?  7351  12M 12 12 14   520L  41450
Consumed materials                          5077  141111  17511  SUM   55I12  StOiSi
Other operating  costs                      21423  3478   43iV   221112  tS!SI  14^233
Staff                                       44441  NS&   16441  117831  11301  :; 4 IS8
Technical assistance                        MU?   44112  41132   53B74  22422  234113
Financial charges                              1    '5      2        IS      I    6I0
Inputs                                       322  2U140  4S5t1  J72   16439  78040
Total with watersupply                      41230  53548  54193  427M  IrXi 2FI-91
Total wichout wateogupply                   M490  473    262U.5  417413  270314 2012245
4!
, J



43 -
Aamx I
3UCESRA - GCISA/MICONbCO PROJZCT
(Cr.d$t ~~oa-rna               Table 7
;                                          t~~~~~~~~~~Credft 66"1U)                   'bc7
PROJECT COIPLETION  REORT
'  Ptie Ac.tual Costs
Infrastructure
(meW '000)
1977/78              1979               1960              1961                1982
C nzrsServ±ces()   (2)  S/T:T  (1) (2)S/T  T  (1) 9)            (1) (2) SJ/T,   T) (2
Central Sria             311314VA U4&      W235?2 1433                 a()()ST               2        2
*   Offices            .a. ...          ,q ,S  .  W, el   131 I1945
Offices              ,i ..                                    ma                                     Ow
ubilial. Trm. C.ontrb *I  1               I1 A       "'         Im  mu         uW u 3:u
-uildings             £415  lI4  11415 1     USS 30 7 li  UPjI 4l2 9I 27     3  U5 72  . 
Biause                 1723)11 .-1all 4!4 44 w             t  II$I 1412     4454453.
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m na  "i    -                                     t ,    *                   'W
RSional Centres   11         1044 1014 I?                                                          PM 1 Z 23131lU  mlw 19  no4 35 720 1w 34* 
Offices            1 LI5 T1VA  LIVIA. III"0   IFIW; 0144 :10 67   nfi2   MflJ   M33 *J 1S.Zll I2t X t
buso~~ ~351 1321 U 21UL 21.. U171N    W5Wi. SISO 212     212 4171  U.  4    46 .5311 12     523  1V7t
Rouses              III 361 444  4446 410 '21  lf-r 434~40 M        33  3  32  13 37)               101
Field preperatSoli          UUS 131M   ml   1303 2U12 1014    loJS U M                            I.  4i
PAV'.                        M    *.34               M1'II,  I53P ?i       2    Z5 ImM15 222'      3  122
Offices             33          *13**              113  VI    VU 4 in             6 S.             6   1x
louses              M                                               1%             4 l             I
field PTperati                     *4         e4   10.          ,e.g Z?            m4              0   qr
Refugees                                       S 
.4         ,                *.                    . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                  0.   A
A    suZamo Ste ios n CM                       0   1           M.t                IoS  1           su *  MI
Uutldliag                     6                                                   I33 *26321218OaS  1   32
tauies                       ,                                02242?                              *   LI2,
field  Preparation                 *           *    . IOi      UU410               13
CAIO                  *Dt      .i    m  2M 21 M31                 3122112101U22m11               .    e 
;uisdins              .A 0          4         414 *    424     214 13         S   633 0*234
Neusee               ~~~~~~~~~422  3?   31 414411      41251&in 62544                      0143
Field preparation  21        MII  I7                 t 1  M   1    447  40  17 404  -4N    IM    1    22
.AildIigs             I        a     l   141  511 141 437      4     4 13 1               S            i *
Bounes             'I       In it 7m2        363  S4           W40  "Mo      as12 119t ?17         * low
nield  prwepaaeitol0         3 I313             I I210         21031"M 6  4  43                    0  4633
Feature  lprove. ,4  294   M  M153            L3 Il 1    1U      1 3isl  1n &10  DU  im
Nurseries              13       II      '4 lU     211            1344                                   IXI 74  Ru
Fa*urs s:ttlgme                 51   3 74       2412 2I1 7U 0      73 1;04 2295     M221 215 37 13
.is                              e emX u                           ems    am
,,<Caslld.s           417      II  41?             42  l 1131   2      u I        10132 in   '          21
'   .tu5r"            .                           S   *I2U       2&1 i2110 lo     low31 121M.    IM  'MU
.rosion  Cacrol                       I  '        *   623W       mo  VW            I mM   11    152  7112
Si;auter  Houses    .            e                0 *   53 M70 37     17621        2 331                 4154
.108'                           8*              e   eonW 4*   *      1 M a0  iss2E1*t              11  t;;
SaocSal Coutrs                  I t 1  .. I 3X 15        nn Mo      I21"3 r.ss 21I  1?  1ons         t M
Schools                31 Scho2  1                  241121    23 3315 l1    4011   4 1              1   47
Vatar  Supply         - Lid 21;#5 M1        5"  141 5t2 li2117  l  2awl            m        0n    ts 2gt5,5 WXl70 o.l sM,*s
j         t~~~~oads               M#2                     tom I]Ni 111UM .1__ SJ 11m ,5¢,_ _,        ,        10it MMi!
b        ceiorM   o   force a.count,   2)  Others,  S/t  Sub.Ttal  by  Ila, T  Tocal
-.s
-J



- 44 -
Annex 1
Prolect Actual- Cots                      Table 8
No Lpbs1cal lawueaauu Costs
(3W '000)
1977/78          1979            1980            1981          1982
(1)     (2)S/T T   (1) (2) S/T T (1) (2) SIT T  (1) (2) S/T T (1) (2) S/T T
o                  . .                         *sas,2         * s u          31451          e sIL;
Vetcriway Lab.         i1n     11 SW  U         t  3          3  3                            3 3
ubtlil               --IU; lt1  IMJi 4w       4U41a    o82O1
*AeraL pbotos & Haps   4537    all au) on     ml ell lo       ion 1* ?1
Feasiblity Stude                     me    al l we  3n m12 11    IS 1E    IlMm  la Om  so U333
-   Ct  Stt            |  | w        w  9            * w           § ;s~~~~-  1   s  9
CredieServey                           m?S4?                   fSP           o              @147
$Url Svey        -S*1                     U               *3*W*23
T!sue                _                                   S  MM621  1431   .21 U131    4u 12 i3rl:
*~~ t ?r1*  *.. 111                                      .0311  SS lS9    . 2ta       31    *:il    !8  5L3451
;   Swa    _  1111   llls 111t ,    . * 1nt sn     s  uw           | 155$~~~~~~231    111 IMa  151
Ing         - ,               .,- _maWW
Total           .. . 59     1fl  IMJ6   0 5515 I!i22  Aa4 1*46 I3     l  IIi'i033 8513 2M  ".42 :f.  7..2
(1)    Vo?k cafied out by project
(2)    Others
S/T     Sub Total
t      Tocal
si~~~~



- 45 -
Ann9x 1
Prolects Actual Costs                Table 9
Material and Equipment
(RWF '000)
5123  1979  5119  1931  5962  MAL
Vehicles                           349 091   gm5  1 C4 942  4 Mm9
Civil works materials               59  o1   954  S        0  AN
Offlice equipment                  3716  on   93  13    a  Ina
Training center equipment            3  11   21" 9   5    59  194
School equipment                        12  15       6    0 
Marketing/Processing Equipment      2   2913 132     1  596   19
PAY equipment                        2  1157             M2m  2un 5
Garage equlpment                    52  2361 UN           5    U
Housing furniture                  WI mi  712    f   1   lUm
Agricultural equipment                 3 w   n7 145  14    I 
Health centres equipment                      M' 35           35
Total                          1137 73539 IA !2 IO N .  4150f
a
.'1



- 46 -
Proiect's Actual Costs                Annex 1
Oneratina Costs                    Table 10
(WF  000)
IM   I11  111  .1111  191  Wi
DtMISES
Conemned aMterials
Construction materials            2NW   UU1  m32 22611U
buliding m*intenance  _mt.          a     7    21   I4  1146  tI
Office equip mt                   UU   *t   me 1         lei421  aMi
leneved tfurniture                  I    1   IV   165   33  411
Clvil Work spares                         4   l       2         14
Vehicles spares                   2-42 atm   a*  ,;    lao  4"ai
,Fuelond oil                      642  U    2764  I"M4  13  Uaw
Sycicles                          UD14                         1371
Agricultural equipesnt              l  2C   S91  l2  tn26  31N0
Agricultural Inputs               IM9  MI  2W   41W  2X33  1UU5
Veterinaries Inputs                a   auw  1141  MO  110 lUl
Training materials                 m    m    XIu   3b   am5  *m
Marketing                          U     w "I  41    u s   t  3
Ni ntennce                         u*  am    W    Ill75   n    4119
harmacy                            a    a    1    El   25  112
Kuscellanecua
Fishing                                       It,    A         214
.-                   F~~~~B*lbu                      * M                  b 
Health Centres                         '                       42 a
Total consaud  aterials (W. Stock)$t27 loin  mm17  no   SIR  1111
Tr anports                           LIS  36   437  21   418  1`1
Other Servwlc.
Vehicles maintenance              3S7    a    3ti m 46   nu  26131
Offices salntenance                2    1    296   29   2    "I
Building maintenance              1ll    1    2U   II  .142  ln
Civil Worku equipt. maintenance  I6    U    III  In    a    a
Surveys                           Ml  Ss  lm   SZ   111  170
Rental charges                               2 31        m  7  74
Other op. expenses                ma2  NU  I56   26"  211   Wit
Total Other Services                 11  2221  23   191m  5r7  ISO17
Losses                                 SuNI .  s  un1  52 m 2  22454
Total pther op. expenses A Looses' 2I 2 3613  OM2  M2U  1Il1 IM
Stock Celk                                    W   44U 5       513
Stock Nsho                                   Ni  ItS    2  2M1
Stock Lg iu                                        1      1   962
Other stock                        *     *,
Total Stock                                      UX m    us
'                ~~~~~Staff
Paid by IDA                      215  911  11177 I1    U 
Civil Servants                    UUU  1OU  1151  l21  1123! R21
>Hingart fixed termo                       2K5Ml nm          2322 = 51  1132
CaOnee                            4  W I  429   7   5311  12112
Technical  Assistance           13W   167  aim  13   221  239
Total Staff (en1. TA)               4445 IN IU647D IIX5  1311 5UII
Finannciol ctcharges               U   m    33    a       I   W
Total.IWU. =0  4ILV  3NN  I"LU 14101



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
BUGESERA-EAST/GISAKA-MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 668-RW)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tsetse Eradication in the Gisaka/Migongo Region
1.      A component of the project since its Identification, tsetse
eradication in the infested areas of the Akagera Valley had been planned
long ago in the framework of a three-phase national eradication program
including all infested areas in eastern Rwanda. This program, designed by
the Government with ISAR assistance, started In the late 1960. and
Included:
(i)     tsetse eradication in the Bugesera region.  Successfully
implemented in 1968/69 wLth financial assistance from EDF,
some 90,000 ha of land were cleared of tsetse flies.
Assesments carried out in 1974 confirmed the remarkable
success of this operation and even nowadays, more than 10
years later, no serious roinfestation appears to have
taken place;
(11)    tsetse eradication in the Kibungo (Rusuo) area.  AIDR
carried out from 1970 treatments of about 12,000 ha of
land and established anti-fly barriers covering some 5,000
ha. This second phase, although initially successful,
eventually failed to avoid progressive reinfestation from
neighboring areas in Tan*anla;
(iii)   a survey was planned under the Mutara Project
to design a program of tsetse eradication and protection
measures for the Mutara area and the Akagera National
Park.
2.      Because of the failure experienced in the Rusumo basin, ISAR
carried out a new survey in February 1973 and prepared an eradication
program for the whole fly-belt (from Nasho to Rusumo). This program, to
which was added the area around lakes Rwampanga, Rwehikama and Nasho and
the Southern part of the Kibungo highlands, and including also repetition
of actions already carried out in 1970 In the Rusumo basin, constituted
the basis of the project tsetse eradication component.  Altogether, the
j.         project eradication program entailed treatment of some 100,000 ha of land
and establishment of 40 Kms of anti-fly barriers for a cost estimated at
negzly RWF 39 million.
3.      The principal objective of the tsetse eradication program was to
permit development in new areas considered favorable for traditional
cropping or irrigation, and to facilitate livestock development on
marginal areas and in the Rusumo Station. It soon became apparent, during



48 -               ~~~~ANNEX 2
- 48 -                       PagPe2 of 4
the course of preparation and then appraisal, that immigration in these
areas was greater, occurring at a quicker pace, than expected. Therefore,
it was difficult for the Government to limit or block new settlements, and
there were special demands for coordinated anti-fly treatment activities
and initiation of project developments. The May 1975 appraisal mission
highlighted these issues and, in the subsequent letter to the Government,
recommended that energetic measures be taken to control new settlements.
The mission underlined the risks of continued spontaneous settlement in
Infested areas, but emphasized that the project should be developed taking
Into account the reality that full control of settlement was not
feasible.
4.      The Government of Belgium agreed in April/May 1975 to finance  the
tsetse eradication program; there remained the problem of timely
coordination between the various activities. Technically, the same
principles applied in Bugesera some years before were to be retained (with
the exception of a complementary insecticide spraying by plane).  They
consisted in the delineation of geographical zones to be treated by
natural (mountains, rivers or marshes) or artificial (tree and bush
cleared) barriers and systematic spraying of all fly habitats until all
different fly species had disappeared (verified by systematic control).
This strategy was based on several, perhaps over-optimistic, beliefs with
regard to the biological behavior of the various existing fly species
(flies not living above a 1,500m elevation, and being unable to move more
than 2 km). However, it was already proven thrt some species
(particularly Glossina morsitans) could live up to a 2,000m elevation and
that, carried by wind or fixed on an animal, a fly could move over
considerable distances.
5.      From 1977 to 1981, implementation of the eradication campaign
was seriously disturbed on several occasions, so that its results were
uneven and incomplete. Implementation began as planned, but was abruptly
stopped at the end of September, 1977, following the ban imposed by the
Government Supreme Council upon the use of Dieldrine (basic component of
Dieldrex then used for spraying).  This ban occurred when 90Z of the
program had already been executed. It was called off only in mid-January
1978, after early rains had permitted reinfestation of already treated
areas. The 1978 treatment campaign was carried out in much better
conditions.  An    ISAR report concluded that the operation had been a
success, although detailed comments showed that uncertainties remained in
several areas as to whether the flies had been completely eliminated or
whether some residual pockets still existed. The report included several
specific recommendations concerning operation follow-up, particularly:
(i)     to proceed quickly with settlement in treated areas
in order to break up possible residual pockets of
infestation and thus slow down or avoid possible
reinfestation;
(ii)    to establish a sanitary control post at the Rusumo customs
post to prevent flies from being carried into areas
already treated;
(ii)   to continue control aetivities and sporadic treatments
with some funds remaining under Belgian financing;



_49 -                        ANNEX 2
i                                                                           iPoge73of 4
(iv)    to ensure maintenance of anti-fly barriers; and
(v)     to avoid uncontrolled Import of cattle which are posslble
carriers of tryponosomiasis from which mechanical
transmission could occur through other kinds of insects.
These recommendations, althougb justified, were not fully followed up.
Checks were undertaken by ISAR until June 1979 but their results appear
not to have been transmitted to the project managing team. What Is
apparent, in any case, is that those in charge of project lmplementation,
probably overloaded with their various other responsibilities, did not
*         follow up closely on progress in implementation, which came under the
responsibility of institutions not directly related to the project. Their
information was incomplete since copies of the progress reports to MINAGRI
were not even systematically sent to BGN.
6.      Only at the end of 1979 did the BGH managers become worried about
the re-emergence of tryponosomiasis outbreaks in Rusumo and Nasho. They
contacted ISAR who indicated that their continuing Intervention depended
upon decisions from Brussels on use of remaining funds. Only in May 1980
did the project Permanent Secretary agree on use of IDA funds to carry out
urgent measures which could stop tsetse reinfestation in already treated
areas through maintenance of existing anti-fly barriers. These activities
were started at the end of 1979 but stopped in early 1981 because of
mismanagement of funds. Meanwhile, assessments proved that reinfestation
had already occurred in the whole area already treated, from Rusumo to the
southern border of the Akagera National Park.
7.      In October 1981, an FAO consultant visited the infested zone at
IDA's request.  His report confirmed the precariousness of actions
undertaken prior to his visit and recommended a set of interventions
(control studies, bush clearing, spraying and use of fly nets) whose costs
were estimated to some RWF 37 million. Since such investments could not
be envisaged at that late stage of project implementation and also did not
guarantee complete tsetse eradication, only minor activities were pursued
which efficiency proved later doubtful (biconical fly nets in particular).
8.      Compared to appraisal estimates, expenses under this component
were the following (in RWF)



ANNEX 2
-50-                            Page 4 of 4
4Wt 1^ t-   1976     1977      1978   1979
.J          1980      1981     Tbtal
Labor (Salaria.) 12,900,000 165,310   709,885   790,580     1,573,532     -    3,239,307
Squlpu nt        3,800,000  46,270   225,030    7,200   -  2,430,338      -    2,708,838
~ lmnapo,t       5,900,000 180,020   587,490   430,750   -    36,500      -    1,294,760
Splm                 -       -       34,596      -      -       -         -       34,596
M                    -       -       26,0D       -      -       -         -       26,500
*  1Tbuiuar          -       -         -         -      -  6,000,000 2,057,031 8,057,031
LGaoullIinm      8,700.0Q0    100    77.410    49 100   -       -         -      126,510
.                                                           7
i~~~oa                   38800031701609112753                        00030207011,2,4
q~~~~~~
::~~~~~
';



- 51 - 
1
DUGESIRA EST GISAA MIGOf0GO
;IUD  FARMING AND R            DZVELOPEN   PROJECT
(Credit 668-RW)
.4
PROJECT COMPION RPORT
.e    u rv  of Key Indicators
;gaasre           *i    /alUigellg      Tsui
1                                         A.L(1)    Actual    A.E.(1   Actual   A 1(1)   Actu l
A. Technical Services
*           ~~~~(Ki9gal1)
Main Office                                                        1 
Training Cnre                                                        
School Form                                                        I 
Vetrinary Lob.                                                     1         -(2)
B. btneoe Intrn-
structure
;Regloal Devlopmat
Centres                        1                                    2      a
Agricultural Eatensiec
Centre  (PAVe)           4          1i        4       2 (a)         6      1,
Vet. Centre  (PAVe)        6          is        6       9 (4)        1       10
Beekeeping Ceetre          2           8        I       1 (5)         8      4
Fisheries Cenre                       i         1           8         I      is
Nurseries                 a           U        U           88       la       65
Dipglng Tanks              6           5 F                  4        14       6
C. Inputs
H.l'o! rs                            7i                    74      1,U      1i  (6)
Stables                              6527)          1,17  (s)     1,56       2,16
Beehives                             so (i            a  (15)     I'm        867 (9)
Fishing  sta and                     n*.e.               n..        2U       u... (21)
Gear
Fish Seelng Oven                      4 (22)           a (12)         4      I (11)
A
.4               , F
..



Annex 3
-52-Lu.
gagesers          Cisaka/ligoinso           Total
- 5 -                 -s 2
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~..2                                   cul    A 1. .2    Acua     A. I.(      Ata
3. Market.jo and
Coq,eatiwe off Icgs
md stores                            12(12)4(25                                   6lz
Vlorer sllg and
_ -  -    2                      2
Decorticators              e----
Ilmaghterhouses            -3                               1na4
SlJcos                                 3(t3)               t 1         nA          4
It.  ,ads
Accessaroada(I=)           so)                   100)                   10)
Pr  a (kin)          )     ~~~~313              156                )    6
'owei roads (km)            m                    goo )                1,200
I.Vat*lor §MIvmite                                      .9      10             10 
C. Social Infrastructure
Sboleuhchue                  2          3          _        3              3;       6 
B '  So ltb Contras           3           2          3        2(16)         6        4(24)
.~~~~c.i                              .. 
. ~     ~~ ;    'al*h*Centre.
(1)  4ppraisal estimate at project completion.  All numbers are indicative
as project Is being Implemented on basis annual work plans. taking into
- account operating axpereance and possibly Qntadling substantial changes
to project Investments as compared with original appraisal estimates.
(2) Finncing taken over by CGoverment of the tetherlads;  construction
cpled In 1983.                                     -
(3) Seven of whlch with both atricultural and livestock facilities, two
dith agricultural extenson only.
(4) Sree  of which with both agricultural and livestock facilitises  two
-                with livestoek extension only.
O(5) Co  mro at Regional Centei HQ, but bot equipped with honey extractor.
- .             ...........(6) SVpPlied on credit.
f(7  Of ubich 152 "Siprovea stables" eorered with corrugated iron roofing
provided on credit.



*                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ;E( 3
Page 3.
-53 -
(8)   Of which 150 lmproved stsl0es, covered with corrugated iron roofing
provided on credit.
(9)   Figures seem uncertain; 128 beekeepers reportedly registered in
Bugesera, precise number in Gisaka not Known, possibly souwhere
betveen 100 and l50.
(10) Reportedly 332 fishermen with 321 pirogues provided with extension
services in Bugesera, as of end December 1981; no figures available
Li Gisaka.
(11) In Bugesera 2 3ut of 4 Intermittently operated for sometime virtually not
operated in Gisaka; most fish is being sold fresh.
(12) Only stores, no offices.
;          (13) One being uspd.
(14) Of which, in Gisaka, one health center and one school for nurses.
i.
.1~~~~~
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 54 -
Annex 4
Table I
RWANDA
BUGESERA - GISAIA/MIGONGO PROJECT
(Credit 668-RW)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Appraisal estimates and actual disbursesents.
(US$ '000)
c    er             Appraisal       Actual   Actual disbursements as
and quarter       Esdtiate         Total    X of appraisal Estizates
1977   II                 0            0                -
III  1)         350             0                0
IV              500             0                0
1978   I            1  750             0                0
II  2)        1,100           340               34
III           1,500           540               36
IV            2,000           830               42
1979   I              2,500        1,100               44
II            3,000         1,700               57
III           39500         2,260               65
IV            4,000         3,750               94
1980   I             4,500         4,325               96
II            5,000         5,300              106
III           6,000         6,230              104
IV            7,000         7,240              103
1981   I             8,000         8,750              109
1I            9,000         9,640              107
III          10,000        10,810              108
IV           11,000        11,410              104
1982   I             11,500       11,970              104
II           12,000        12,650              105
III          12,500        13,300              106
IV           13,500        13,450              100
1983   I            14,000        13,850               99
a                    II                         14,000              100
Closing date        09/30/82     11/30/82
1i  Expected date of effectiveness         :  March 1, 1977 (at appraisal)
.2/  Actual date of effectiveness          :  November 23, 1977



y ,                                         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55-
Annex 4
Table 2
RWANDA
BUGESERA - GIS-AXA/IGONGO PROJECT
Credit 668-RW)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
*                            IDA DISBURSEMENTS-BREAKDONJ BY CATEGoRy
Credit Categories    Credit Agreement    Revisd Credit         Actual
Allocations          Agreemeat             Disbursements
Allocations (1979)
I    A                  200,000               200,000               4,820,000
..          B~~ (1)                                   (1)                     _
C                  (1)                   (1)                    249,933
!,              D                  100,000              100,000                  275,140
E                  (2)                   (1)                     59,491
II    A                 100,000               100,000               1,955,639
B                 500,000               500,000                 173,056
C                  (1)                   (1)                       _
D                  (1)                   (1)                    579,691
Z                  (2)                   (1)                     47,652
III                      (1)                   (1)                    103,823
IV    A                  (1)                   (1)                  4,352,094
3 :                (1)                   (l)                    192,567
V     A                 300,000               3009000                   17,341
3                  (1)                   (1)                    530,000
VI                      300,000               300,000                  128,815
VII   A                 180,000               360,000                 360,000
s                 200*000               200,000                 154,758
V'III                11,120,000  (3)        9,940,000  (3)               -
IX                    2.000,000             2.000.000
TOTAL          14,000v00,             14,000,00              14,000,000
(15  to be laocI ted on the basis of agreed yearly work plans
(2)  sub-category added in 1979 amended credit agreement
(3)  to be allocated to categories I to VI on the basis of work plans
!~~~~~
';



- 56 -
i                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~A""  4
1                                                                           5Table 3
uuauM-ozaxJiaoa.Io PItwgcT
(Criet "a-RV
IDA DIUUUIZTM  PI CATOU MMJICT TMA
l_)
Cat  ls.      1977/1576      1979            1960           1981            192             Total
x               68,726,782     180,551,510   174,215.392      53,900,450     19,196,682  4/ 496,591,016
*  It           48,825,267      87,00X,406   86,073,913       24,126,123      7,040,066       253,069,795
III              2,652,A65       1,416,218    4,611,572          549,500        -               9,431,755
Iv              29,105,966      90,364,862   137,757.668     130,010,384    30,856,268        418,115,168
V                4,502,636      10,376,649    12,182,730      12,179,291     11,139,868        50,361,374
VI                  -            1,559,76     6,010,349        4,269,359        -              11,639,434
vIt             30.767,638      16,543,600       -               -              -              41.314,438
TOTAL          164.760.954    387.839.191    420.851.644     225.035.107    68.233.104 1I  1.2*6.740.000
)  Etimat
.i
.; 
- !.,       o~~



_ 57 _                       ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BUGESERA-EAST/GISAKA-MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(cr. 668-RW)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic assuMptions for the calculaton of production increases
1.      It is judged that seed multiplication would not have been carried
out in the project area without the project.  Additional production has
been estimated from existing data on seeds distributed each project year.
Seeds would be used by farmers during four consecutive years and it is
estimated that the quantities distributed after the project would be equal
to the average quantities distributed during the three last project years.
2.      Areas theoretically sowed or planted have been calculated using
sowing density norms recommended by ISAR. applied to the quantities
actually distributed:
Maize      : 40 kg/ha
Sorghum   : 30 kg/ha
Beans      : 70 kg/ha
Soy beans : 35 kg/ha
Cassava   : 10,000 shoots/ha
Pineapples: 50,000 shoots/ha
3.      Additional production on these areas has been estlmated using
results of the IAMSEA survey (situation without project) and TSAR yield
norms from which have been deducted 20X (and 40X for maize and sorghum) to
take into account conditions, prevailing in farmers flelds (situation wth
project). Yields used are the folloving:
without project      with proiect      additional yields
Groundnuts           590                  960                   370
Maize                910                1,500                   590
Sorghum              820                1,800                   980
Beans                800                  900                   100
Soy beans             -                   960                   960
Cassava               -                 2,750                 2,750
4'        Vegetables             -                10,000               10,000
4.  ,  Additional production for coffee has been estimated using the
following assumptLons:
-   90 additional ha with a productlon of 585 kg/ha rough;
-   additlonal yields of 50 kg/ha on 3,800 existing has because of
41                     the maLntenance of coffee fields and development of mulching
with forage crops;



ANNEX 5
-58 -                         Page 2 of 2
-   additional production of fuelwood was calculated on the basis
of an average production of 6 c.m./ha/year;
-   pineapples are estimated to yield 1 kg/plant with 50,000
plants/ha;
-   additional fruit production has been estiated using yields
Increasing from 10 to 78 kg per tree from the seventh year
after plantation (ISAR estimates 200 kg/tree).
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.1



Annex S
Table r
RVANDA
suCmS-GIsATI7M-co0C        w FROJUCT
(CrediLt 666-t)
PROJECT COtlPLSTION REPORT
Istiated Amricultural production Increase
(tone)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Groundauts                           11.5   17.8   25.9   41.8   35.5   38.9   40.3   34        38.5   38.5   36.5   39.5   38.5   38.5   38.5
Mais                                   3      3     52.5  134.5  147.5  196.5  195.9  162.8  195.9  195.9  195.9  195.9  195.9  195.9  195.9  o
Sorgbi                                0       0      0      0      18.6   23.5   29.4   35.,3  23.5   23.5   23.5   23.5   23.5   23.5   23.5
sans                                  2.7    2.7    8.2   13.2    16.2  21.6   21.5   21.9   21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6
Soy Beans                            17.3   70.1  171.8  353.3  493.4  587.5  632.6  598.1  587.5  587.7  587.5  587.5  587.5  587.5  587.5
Cassava                               0       0     55      55     66     88      55     77     88     88      88     89     88      88     88
Vegetables                            0    530    670    910   1620   1070   1200   1300   1198   1230   1240   1220   1230   1230   1230
Fults                                0       0      0      0       0    150   3050    950   1848   3698   4851   5915   6930   7485   7722
Fuel Vood (c.m.)                      0       0      0      0   7956  16320  11880  19104  19104  19104  19104  19104  19104  19104  19104
Pilneapple                           24      49    296    703   1383   2470   3002   1619   1619   1619   1619   1619   1619   1619   1619
Coffee                                0       0      0      0    200    300    400    500    750    750    750    750    750    750    750



-60-
Aneoc 5
Table
IUGESERA-CGSAKA/IGONCO PROJECT
(Credit 668W)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.Esimated Livestock Production increases
17   1m1   1M   1m   flul   1        1I4   15   3l   13P7  139   le:
Cattle stall1nF, ("Fermettem")
Number                  -9    I      49    92   13    415  245   2495  24;5  2405   24'
Calves s                 0      0     0     0     13    5    129 IN       514   14    L4
Milk ('0001)                                I * 0  0    .5   25  64.5   129   258  324.5  LO
____...... ....:
Impact ot forage crops
leeM] tiplicatilti        (ha)It    5C    1    114   204   20   204 .W    0'   204   ':    * 
X,..3 tiplicaticn    ~ (h) 9    2!T   315   720  l02   3020  3020  1024..  302 1v X   1C2I 
areas planted
forage prnduction         (V).7t V; 5   10055  216X 3* N   W;    3O0@               X'i.0  :  30o@.  3-..,
additional moat prod. (t) 54   17'7   201   432   612  61;12   412   112 i12    112 112 43
i
o''~~~~~
.,~~~~~
.
.-



3971    1979    3966    3963    1962    1963    194    m5            3966    36I"7    i91     1m      I3        1991    l92      1993    19194    m995    399       199
1       2        3       4        5                                         I 7  t 9  1  It  12       13       14      Is       11       17     1        1t       26
Ilot  iw  u.:al tul its              1.517   25.942   35.9   70.566 135.499  151.142  1U3.4U3  207.10  264.39  271.79  295.61   317.19  33.59   2414911 354.65  354.43  354.43356.45  354.43  354.63
Fridts lisaits                                                                      3        1       19   3.91    73.26   97.62    116.6   13S.6   I4.5  156.44   154.44   154.44  15t.    154.44 150U44
31w baslit.                           .957   25.942   35.97  71.56   135.4   155.12  1736.43  Mi6.d63  227.933  1".4"  19.56" 191.39   191.9m1 199.99m  19.9m   m.ne  19m.9m              M    MM. . m.  9.9n
malllity fruit baefats                 e.5      0.5     6.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.u      L.s     0.5      6.5     0.5      3.5      0.5     6.5      0.5     0.5      6.5      6.5      L.5     6.5
ifidifi fruit e.it                       0        0                e 0     0      1.5      3.5     9.5   11.4U   36.63  4U.51    59.4    09.3   74.25   77.22    n.22    77.22   77.22   77.22   77.22
.t1  fdllihd baoits                  6.51.7   25.42   35.9    7 1.5M  135.499  156.642  179.913  197.u6   241.413  235.32  247.14  257.79  269.291 274.243 27.213  277.216 277.231 277.211 271.218 277.233
gsts tabtut fam labw                270.66 47U.2M2  633.363  411.735 266.924   4L.73   6.733   41.70   .33 M        .7U UM.7M    4.73 4M 73 3            3        3 4LM  .73   .M    1.73  4U.733   47    .7M3
hi mosc          its              -264.673  *444.35 -512.393 -341.13  -131..45  167.159  131.12  14.05   197.63  l3.345  139.325  209.015  22.55  225.465  223.435  22.435  22.435  223.435  22.435  223.5
i               2        3        4       5        1        7       I        9       30     1        12       13      14       15       36      17       to       1t      2e       23
621.616 317.11" 339.321 23.72224 -11.057 -2U3.64  -332.473 -415.40 -44.11 -542.4 6-591.076 -63.919 -663.3   -69.54 -712.13  -729.211 -742.511 -52.3-75 .35 -7U4. 



ucmic an w Kum 
397      9n      13       1   INm           391     104      I015    19M       I        190        9     1M       399      IM2      3993    I39      Im       I99       9917
1       2        3        4                 0       I        a        9       10               12 it    13       14       17 10            17       1o       It       20
1a IM Oli bftdlt$                    0.n    2s.912    3.9   7L.504  135.499  19.1   133.03  201.13  2W4AS  2119  2M5.UH  311.19   335    343.41  354.43   354.433 354.433  754.433  354.433  34.4a3
Fradia htits                                                                          3        1      I9   3.        13.24    97.02    111.e   133.0   14.5  154.4   154.44   154.44   154.44   154.44   154.4
War  513t1.                           LUl  Z92L        73.9 7L.M  33.9   155.142  176.403  10.130  22W.93   I"9.43   91.593  499.3   MM   199."ll 19.91  I".91 1.9"9   1.9"9   1."ll 1.9"
hmaitOwity ffirt _14it                 0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      e.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      e.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
bfi sd f,uit _ait                         0        *        0       0        0      1.5      3.5      9.5   I3.  U     .03    43.51    59.4    09.3   74.25   1.22   n7.22   n1.22    77.22    11.22    11.22
1.  .fidfi minf Us                    6.3    25Lsu2  3s5.    70.51i.  135.49   I5.4,42  379.93  197.40  240.413  23523 21MAN  25r.,"  249.291 214.24   27             7.21 2m.2u 77.213  2n7.211 27.218 2 M.21
cuts .31.t fare lar                  210.00  47.292  11.363  411.3  2.924  4L.7U   4U.7U            .7U3   473   4U.7          .713  4U.73   U.U         .7U   4.U   4U.7U   4.7U3   ".7            4.3   4U.7
Wated cuts             loX              2"      517      in       43       2m        54      54       5f       54       54       54       54      54       54       54       so       54       54      54       5f
ltl  cNsIC b...hts                 -291.413 -49.03  -44.03 -332.434 -15.93  102.042  125.903  143.3  I392.433    1.121 193 .10  203.791 215.211 223.24   223.233  223.213  223.213  223.211 223.211 223.211
1                2        3        4       5        0        7        a     .9         I0      11       12       13       14       15       20       1       1o       19       20       21
361.410  Mu.3Ms -39.60    -135.517 -32.92 43.972 -525.11II 3-0.51 -444.23 -715.93 -153.5 -7M2.7  -.44 -2.317 -59.3   1472.224 -11.41 4-7.07 01.278 -92.02
Ic
! I!



.c..uc myrn
*MII6L AC.zm.sIMu  imiono.r
1971      1976      1919      £900___  1963        16        8913      196       3965       196        £961       966     18969      1990       1991      1992
Croumdauate NreluctIo   1)       11.5      17.6      25.9      41.       39S.S      21.9      40.3      34.0    3#1.S        3.         39.5      33.S 9    36.5       34.S      38.0
ftlc.        2)      So        S0         S0        So        So        So        S0         So        S0         S0        So         so        S0        S0         50
Value        3)        .57s      .69       1.299     2.06      1.115     1.945      2.01S     1.1       1.925       8.92s     8.92s     8.925     8.9s       1.925
Heaim      ?roduetloa             S         3        52.5     334.5      147.5     394.5       1.95.9  1U2.6  m9a.           195.9     395.S    195.9       395.9     895.9
?rlco                 a         a          a         a         a         a         a          I         a          S         a          a         8         0
value                  .024       .024      .42      1.075     1.16       1.5n      1.541     3.302  I .5S1         3.541     I.S41     1.541     8.547      1.567
Sorghm     productiou            0          0         0         0         ISA       25.5      29.4      SS.3      23.S        23.S      23.S      23.S      23.5       23.5      23.5
Ptice                13         13        33        33        33        33         33        33        33         33         33        33        33         33        33
Val"                   .035       .035      .271      .439      .535       .713      .78       .123      .733       .713       .713      .713      .718       .183      .133
Soyeans   production             17.3      70.1     111.5     3S3.3      13.4      517.S      32.4     5.1       S917.S      5617.S    57.5      567.5     567.5      SS7.5     587.5
PrIe                 2S        2S         30         9        30        30         s0        30                   *0 30      30        10        30        30         30
Value                  .433      1.753     5.154    30.599    14.602 :1 .41S    18.976    17.943    17.62S         17.425    17.425    17.42S    11.42S    17.42S    17.625
Ceaaaw     Productlo.            0          0        SS        55                   as        55        77         a          n         9              n    6          as        as
Itie                 to   10   l0          0        10        30        80          0        30        10         10         80        80        30         10        80
value                 0         0           .ss       .ss       .4       .u.1 .u6              .61       .n6        .as        .a6       .u1       .6u        .6        .
tVgetable  Productioa            0        530       (.70       I0      1320       1070      1200       3300      3390       U 30      1240      8220       1230        12.40   1220
ftPe                  0O        10        10        10        l0         80        10        t0        l0          10        t0        80        80         10        10
value                 0          5.3       4.7       9.1      34.2      10.7       12       13         11.9        12.3      12.4      12.2      12.3       12.3      12.:
fraets     8roductioe                  0         0         0         0    a        ISO        21       950      l6           46"      458       S9IS      4930       7915      1722
PrIes                10         10        10        10        80         30        30        10        0e                    10        10        10         to        In
value                 0         0          0         0         a          1.O       3.5       6.5      16.45      36.96      46.S     5.15      49.30      74.8S     77.22
Fualvood   ?roiuctllo            0          0         0         0      7954      80320     860       19304     19104       19104     89804     19804      39104     19104     19104
PrIce               2S0       2S0        230       250       221       220        250       221       2S2        250        220       250       250       250        2S0
*ola                  0         0          0         0         1.963     2.56      .2.97      4.174     4.774      4.171      4.774     4.774     4.776      4.774     4.771
n  oppl.  Ptoductl00            24         U        29        703      13a        2470      3002      1619      1419        8439      3419      1819       1419     1319      1819
Price                 S          S         S         S              s          s              S         s          S          s         5         S          S         S
value                  .12        .24      I.4       3.MIS     4.915    12.35      35.01      6.066     1.09S      9.096 S     .665      .09S     8.099S    8.095      .095
Coffee     PraductIce            0          0         0         0       200        300       400       SC        750         750       7S0       750        721       750       7SO
Prtce                 0         0          0         0       I3O       ISO        ISO       ISO       ISO        ISO        ISO       ISO       ISO        I2        152
Value                 0         0          0         0        30        4S         40        i5        112.9                382.5    112.S      112.9      114       114
1) to00
2) 3w
3) V1W ullilo



1(60L    1160L  9669   L~~~019    1119o    slit   16,19       9319      319       P103     Il.l     9o'1                            am
619  1.9      r          939      611         £       r.         o                  0         0                   *                  1T
1U1319  9151133    199"Ifi   1111 1L9     1                 929       13      19£1     £P1        £9 993             L1        96       LPI*6  U    60
911      911       tt      611      S3 9911 13t  fl  131  Pl        SI        c        i 09 1      0           0         0              0                            0393
9119t    9LL9t    9LV9    9iLL9       9iLP      9L19l     9L9'    9Lil9        Lt'3     363      61361        0         0         0        0                            flog
3S            33tL     1P9£i    01,69    1P61       i ItIt    16969      *96l      SI6       s1       VI          0         0        0         0        0                           8Ta
rzri     il3       clef      rzti     V931      P391      6111        Si        3        @       P91       P6t ll  1  r19     1I         0                             11
1161      W.       99 a.     W        so.        9 W.      a.Ia                        69St99              St,      11           0        0                           30103
1399£1   139l1t   519£t    13993    139911   Stoltz    SO911    tWItl   61661    139£1   309,91    "6P01    991P1             Stll    SC,?                              pro$
at,      got,       got,   .936P      3P        got       tellP      Nz       got,      M.       fee,         0         0         0        0                          OqisOg
L9IK'    L9PI1    L91li    19PI    19913        VIST1.3      l £    AP1  i    I", I9.  3L9        lilt    9L0*I      it*      9io      930.                             "1rA
IS?1    13611    1361        1Z9   1611 SI      SUIT       1361        II     Stolz    SIG's    stil        so's    %llP    go.         1W,                          *1M
3661     3663      0661      666t     6963      £661      91166    1661       9661      NOT      3M6 I     1663     0966     611o     9161      It6T
WIVA NOU2011OU11 IMIUOI5S
SU41111U1 DIiWUO



- 63 -
Chart I
*  - SUA-Kft/QIUA-HICAUGO zUNt     IIAMIUG
Ni atagr of Aalesalture. Liv*stock ad tFtorsrw ouaanixaaoa Chatc
.1
4 roory   1                           ,                r       ~~~~~~~~~~~~L vestock  ll    Solis
eComaal r l rctorat.                                                             |          D     e      |             Dlrctot-
Waterr                                   A.I      ml :li
;loreenry
Pr. et.reC1 aNW
Comamal Urvicas
Krt 
Kzaao,amt
l~~~~~
-:~~~~~
i



-66-
Cbati 2
AVAM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~A
ftestO            Insidsts "Get a9v kite1            .                  ts
mi""sy of AsSewltum and tlosteel
:abowatq      .esiwisim       Deve It"t C dut.
.,      .                               ttt  hE_* - f totof do 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lei OfficeDl_ 
1 1   7 - r["        Bactvit          oee"IbleaeZ    tI               o Projeclt      Too-O.r ll
h  I   L-onto(Wit eeoolul             &We_oge         Olo_Aswe Irdc ele hJ eTee
C  I                ~~~~~(wis WW110   kgmw-3a         aiskan,p.g.lzs
p                                                              f  _Pef
!~~~~~
A



IUD 19454UPCR
3A0-  RWANDA        30"15'
BUGESERA-GISAKA/MIGONGO
MIXED FARMING AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BUGESERA REGION
Watan Supo nmt originaly icludid    *   PA.V. (Port Agro V04riaim)  s ilaO
in protd arm              U   Dppig tal                     Fwid dvlopmsnt
*OM Gdaro Rsgaon Censtr    :        Voccatian cridor             Wast apply
- 2?00'  *   AL Kem  Rudr Ct           *   HeaNi conso                   Rmulunws Ans;      2000'-
Aho hm  sS
4      / ~~~~138  N4y     
I C H A N YA
t    x *N t                       :                  (
25'
L    / o    /,/  S   O      ff         F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MLE
A~~~~ -.-   REIO  BOUNDARIES /                                                 10ITSO REGIO
,                 -    MAIN ROADS / OUES RINCIA
!W~     | 7-             4 C U     H         A m      UREAU  O
2*15'             b10                   1    S        (  REPORTUFR N         N  S   E
_ _ _ _ R~~~~ECTOR BOUNDARIES / I/MITS E EC EUREG
01~~~~~~~~~~05
e                   ti~~~~~~~~~'l UGND                                   1
cm                                                        U    R->  U  MAI  DOD  I RlrsEQN/A
ZAI RE (, ; f Z -2>3~~~~~~~~0' RIVER /   5  OfAU 2es3'
30O                                      or                          10 ,iMLES:_1   tr   EEV
RWAtlD;~~~~~~~~~~~EGO  BO1 CM UNA  EDQARIES  I          UeA raD RCGOMMNA
BURN    UGAND                      MAI 5ECOADS /SE   REFORTS FORINCIAES ASCUR
A                      rj               OTH ECTR ROUNDSARISES / I/MrESCSffU
RWN     TANANI                   0*  COMMUNAHEADOUNARTERS V/8UREA&/COAMUIVAI
i                 --- ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 1FROWI/FAW /NERNAilONAMUCS
\ X                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30-15'



IOND 19474(PCR)
30"30'      RWANDA                              30C45'
BUGESERA-GISAKA/MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GISAKA/MIGONGO REGION
TSE-lSE ERADICATION ACTIVITIES                                                200'
Old AIDR flv barriers
eza  F IV b rril cotnpletd In 1977 <g2 ' 
^~~~~~~~~~r                       z r.   in  I98 
,~~~~~~~~~~~Ae - rvcz in 19791W0ctJJ,o 
Aci*om daft ,m bu 1 C'''.t
To Kigoll
KIBUNUR9          UNKIR                                                          >
z
/8;5 j       -     1   ,oO>
2015'               20015* '-' REGION BOUNDARIES / IM/TESDEREGION
I       A
*  ^\-   PAVED ROADS A ROUTES ASPHATrEES
UGANDA                 -    OTHER ROADS / P/STES-ROUtES
.          _     RIVERS / COURS D'EAU
d                   /                 Z           O    COMMUNAL HEADOUARTERS /BUREAU COMMUNAI
Z AI R r               -           2'30'        PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS/ BUREAtIU DAPRFCTURE    2*30
W  W      A    O .Vcterie,     32   SECTORS (SEE REPORT FOR NAMES) / SECTEURS
RWAIOXi%                            --' 32    >  ~~~SECTOR BOUNDARIES / /M1TESOESECTEUR
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES / I/MITESDE COMMUNE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES / FRONTiERES INTERNATIONAAES
TANZANIA                                             9 _s
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - W ' -  8  P.  eCO  . w  _ ~fe
T oengonyi&o          -f.                                          hulls _9



19475(PC
3030'       RWANDA                              30'45'
BUGESERA-GISAKA/MIGONGO MIXED FARMING
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GISAKA/MIGONGO REGION
-    bgImmn o                 -   Pd-rsF dWin 11 F                                    2*00
A    *kmm h*. sdswool              Wd- - - - wo ly'
* P.A.V. (Pase AWg Vd u,mfr)       Casi2a_frnudlng - \
U    otph - ti,             N.,ll .................... -.5
gb~~~~~~~~~~U.a uaa                       F-               a    *;jjU m. ;ne* .;'@
/~~~~~~~~.                AN= .... 5     zf 
HsgWicw,sw~~~~~~~~~~~~~        :e,   
b_lUlD11182_#1  t,             /           /z//        Jl- ,.|~.00      !-4'124 1
,   Ste                                      / .       -     -                I .    ,/
AOo/gO/i                 o h b20               *            24
\_/  %hmm tZ    '    / T             I, 
_~~~ _  '                                                                                   z
3                            23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
| BURUNDI               ipk,.    -
30 30 j -- ~~REGION BOUNDARIES / LIMUfES 01REGION
v   z     :~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/7 ~ ~ 'I             -    PAVED ROADS /RourEs ASPHALTEES
u           ,y ~~~UGANDA                 -    OTHER ROADS / PISTES-ROUfiES
.~~              ~      ~~~~~ .   o.oc       RIVERS / COURS O'EAU
(  ,-t Z                @30'      COMMUNAL HEADQUARTERS /8UREAU COMMUNAL ZO
z   Z A I R E    ?  /  Z    r >   2 w o    PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS / BUREAU DE PREECTURE
:     . ,,_._ sVictorio/s           ~~32   SECTORS (SEE REPORT FOR NAMES) / SECTEURS
RWA;g%   %               ---  ~~~~SECTOR BOUNDARIES / LIM/TESOESECTEUR
o COMMUNE BOUNDARIES / LIMITES  COMMUNE
*         ~~BU UNDI)                       --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES /fiRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
TAN ZA NIA                 _            _             9                 1,0      IS
I.£ Tongony',ka       - .0    ._  -_       M_       -   °ES
aeca 198S



18RD W08O
*To MoUoorom S KOMlo                                                KMAY 1I
RWANDA                                                                                                                                                                                  _
LOCATION OF AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS                                                                                                /                                                                   .f      -
TANZANIA
REPUBLIC OFo
Ft    Reofforestalion reos(inih.grow Foestry Project)                          ZAIRE                                                                                      NyO lOr
BugeiiseButII    E61,Gimlia/Migango rural daeoupment $wWclBGM)                                                    , (              1 M)         .                                                   . I
)     L akeKivu cofttf  and food crop mprovemnfl
W AbId_  tExtisting coffee etobr fooad crops paysonnols
Forest FrAlaeas(Muor
_    Cinchona dewteuprmen project                                                       *     R DerLng_e               i                                                               A vA GERi2A     !        2
Existlq  VrsnotCk detnelOpllt lfol s        I end ID                       A.lrenQer                                                                                GObiro       NA O     Al.
Ando covfend by monshlnnd studiesNAII  NAL
-.2 .   Possbie morshlond reclamoaono areas
............. .Kagera National Parix boundary                                                                                             Y. HNGbo            BYUMBA                        PARK
Main roadsERI
* R.vers and lakes                       )
-   -   -Prefecture boundaries
-.      -  lntrinitldrnOaiOl boundaries                          605,)                  J
Ft~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~t.                                                                                   r'~.          cn eoommn
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ZAIREfrtrf4                                                                                         I. .                                            a ,/ I           L
RWANR                                                                                                                                    KIG    UNDI4  t,S           - __
a, Ro * 1' "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'KI                                                                                      N° ' r"'t
X    \ \                                      ,LI UYE



