Document of
HlEll CCV                        The5 Wo)rld Bank
mm) OIYI1CllAL USIE UNDLY
aepjoiz No. P-195O-R1W
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR THE
BUGESERA EST AND GISAKA/MIGONGO
MIXED FARMING AND RURAL-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 2, 1976
|b d    =     Lm 0    a u       6l dMbw  amon mtsy b3 M   by r etbg q wnDy fin Qfl pun naomee off
fhilz qEmeie 6mk   Has emilks( ay  Mel eakzise 1b dbenad w§t&am wo7D 11a1d smaomd.



Currency Unit        : Rwandese Franc (RwF)
US$1                 : RwF 92.84
RwF 1                : US$0001
RwF 1,o00            : US$10077
RwF 190000OO        : US$10,771022
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDR   - Association Internationale de Developpement Rural
(International Association for Rural Development)
BADEA  - Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en
Afrique (Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
ISAR   - Institut des Recherches Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
OPROVIA - Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisation
des Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales
(National Agency for Development and Marketing of Food Crops
and Animal Products)
UNDP   - United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR THE BUGESERA EST AND GISAKA/MIGONGO
MIXED FARMING AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Rwanda for the equivalent of US$14.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project. About US$1.0 million of the IDA funds will be onlent to
OPROVIA (Office National pour de Developpement et la Commercialisation des
Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales) for a period of 15 years
including 4 years grace, at 8-1/2 percent interest per annum. The Arab Bank
for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) will participate in financing the
project with a loan of US$5.0 million at 2 percent interest per annum, repay-
able over 25 years including a five-year grace period. The Kingdom of Belgium
will contribute the equivalent of about US$0.9 million to the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW),
based on the findings of an economic updating mission that visited Rwanda in
October 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        With an average per capita income of about US$90 in 1975, Rwanda
is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is included in the United
Nations list of the "25 least developed countries", and has also been desig-
nated "most seriously affected" by recent economic developments. The country
became independent in 1962. It is lacking in both administrative and physi-
cal infrastructure, and must overcome formidable constraints to its develop-
ment. Overwhelmingly a subsistence economy with only an embryonic modern
sector, it faces land shortages and a rapid growth in population. The de-
velopment of export-based agriculture is limited by the priority of food
crop production and the country's inland position (1,700 km away from the
nearest port at Mombasa), while the potential for expansion of the indus-
trial sector is constrained by a lack of raw materials, mineral deposits
and an appropriately trained labor-force.
4.        Despite these handicaps, the present Government, since its ascent
to power in July 1973, has made perceptible progress in developing a strategy
to lift the economy from its present low level. Some aspects of the country's
characteristics are favorable and it is around these that the Government has
designed its strategy. The population has a certain unity, deriving from
similarities in customs, ways of life and standard of living throughout the
country. Income and wealth distribution are remarkably even. There are
This document has a mstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
neither the remnants of a strong traditional hierarchy nor signs of signifi-
cant emerging urban-rural polarization. Moreover, the small size of the
country reduces the administrative difficulties and at the same time limits
serious regionalism. The country also has a natural asset in its relatively
fertile soil which, provided that the problem of erosion in Rwanda's hilly
terrain can be overcome, can give good yields for a variety of crops. To take
advantage of and preserve these admittedly modest assets, the Government has
recognized that its development policies must be built around a carefully
integrated and balanced strategy reaching the entire population. Although
obliged to pursue export crop development to earn foreign exchange and domes-
tic revenues, increases in food crop productivity are at the core of the
Government's proposed strategy.
5.        Pressure on land, combined with traditional cultivation methods
that degrade and erode the soil, make food crop intensification the nation's
first priority. The growth rate of the population is 2.8 percent per year,
and 60 percent of the population is less than 20 years old. At the same time,
all good agricultural land is already occupied and only limited amounts of
marginal land remain available. Over the last two years the Government has
begun preparatory work on rural development plans which would focus future
efforts on food crop production at the level of the commune - the smallest
administrative unit comprising an average of 30,000 inhabitants. In doing so,
the Government has recognized that its approach must be directed towards the
farmers' needs, with careful integration at both the grass-roots and ministe-
rial levels. The emphasis on food crops would be linked with soil conserva-
tion and livestock development, and supported by extension services and
necessary infrastructure such as markets, local roads, and storage facilities
enabling the Government to implement an appropriate pricing policy. Infra-
structure improvements would rely on local initiative where possible; under
the plan, local labor and other resources would also be used to back up
economic improvement with social betterment in the form of simple health
facilities, schools and training centers, and village water supply. Much
preparatory work on the plan still remains to be done, but with the Govern-
ment's present strong commitment to a rural development policy, it is likely
that further progress can be made. An IDA agricultural sector mission visited
Rwanda in May 1976 and its report, which is expected to be ready for distribu-
tion by February, will provide further assistance to the Government regarding
possible alternatives for the implementation of a rural development strategy.
6.        Faced with the prospect of a doubling of the population by the end
of the century, the Government has ultimately little choice but to adopt a
policy to limit population growth. Emigration is considered by some as a
short run alternative, but the practical possibilities are limited. Although
family planning is a sensitive issue, the Government has set up two commis-
sions which are gradually examining various aspects of this problem, and
senior officials appear to have open minds on the subject. Most of the
reservations concern implementation difficulties rather than outright objec-
tion. This new attitude is an important element and gives hope that concrete
action may ultimately be taken.



- 3 -
7.        Rwanda's landlocked position has been particularly disadvantageous
since 1973, as the costs of external transport for merchandise from Europe
have approximately doubled. Its need to rely on other countries' transport
systems leaves little room for action by the Government. Over the last two
years, some initiatives have, however, been taken within the limited sphere
possible. New roads through Tanzania to the sea and northward to Uganda are
being built, while the road southward to Burundi is being improved. On the
other hand, higher transport costs constitute a natural protection for some
import substituting projects, such as cement, bricks, and peat, and their
domestic production now seems more economically justified. The manufactur-
ing sector is presently very small but the Government plans an expansion to
take advantage of the limited available raw materials. While the develop-
ment of some industry is essential to support the rural development effort,
it is clear that in the immediate future the manufacturing sector would
occupy only a modest role in the economy.
8.        The Government has been and will continue to be hampered in the
preparation and implementation of a development program by shortages of
trained manpower and organizational deficiencies. This weakness has led to
extensive use of technical assistants at the higher level, while the middle
and lower levels are understaffed both in terms of number and quality. As
a result, many basic administrative needs are barely covered. To increase
the supply of much needed skills, the Government is taking two lines of
action. Firstly, large numbers of Rwandese nationals have been studying
abroad in recent years, and there are at present 1,500 Rwandese students
at university level. Secondly, the Government is preparing, despite some
resistance, a reform of the primary education system which would modify
curricula to better meet the needs of a rural economy. The effect of this
development is already visible in the medium layers of the Government's
administration, which has a group of new civil servants who are well educa-
ted and capable. The decision to base rural development on the commune can
be expected to put an even greater strain on the Government, but the contin-
ued emphasis on appropriate training, to which the Government is committed,
will ultimately allow this constraint to be eased.
9.        Rwanda's recent economic history has been one of stagnation with
little real growth of GDP. In 1974, Rwanda experienced poor weather and a
deterioration in its terms of trade. Climatic conditions were the worst in
35 years and food production fell, necessitating a small emergency food
imports program organized by UNDP. The terms of trade deteriorated by 20
percent, mainly as a result of higher international prices for imports, but
also of a decline, towards the end of the year, in export prices for coffee,
the principal export crop. Weather conditions in 1975 were more normal and
permitted production to rise again. During the first half of 1975- coffee
prices remained low, but after July were substantially higher, offsetting the-
effect of the deteriorating terms of trade earlier in the year. Against this
background, national income fell in 1974 by 2 percent, and public savings -
largely dependent on coffee earnings - were negative. However, the investment
level was maintained and consequently the resource gap widened from an average



- 4 -
of US$12.5 million in 1972-1973 (at 1972 constant prices) to US$18 million in
1974 and 1975. Investments in 1974 and 1975 were roughly equivalent to 10
percent of GDP. Financing of the resource gap did not present any major
difficulty, as Rwanda receives considerable amounts of external assistance.
10.       Most external assistance to Rwanda has in the past been in the form
of grants. Aid commitments reached over US$50 million in 1974, including
technical assistance and budgetary support in the form of recurrent cost fi-
nancing, and many countries and agencies intend to offer increased assistance
to Rwanda in the future. The principal aid donors operating in Rwanda are
Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland, the European Development
Fund, UNDP and IDA. In view of the Government's staff constraints and its
correspondingly low ability to prepare and implement development projects, a
considerable amount of aid to Rwanda has necessarily been in the form of
technical assistance. However, appropriate counterparts were not always
available and some of the training benefits were lost. Furthermore, technical
assistance has often produced projects that were not fully suited to the
country's needs in that they made insufficient use of local materials, local
manpower and existing institutions. Besides this, the recurrent costs of
projects were often high, and their position in the overall development
strategy not always clear. To reduce these difficulties in the future, the
Government has begun to be more rigorous in its choice of priority projects.
Rwanda has decided to organize a meeting of aid agencies in February 1977 to
ensure that future projects are more closely related to national priorities
and to improve coordination among the external agencies.
11.       Rwanda's external debt is low.    External public debt, outstanding
and disbursed, amounted at the end of 1974 to US$13.0 million, of which IDA
credits represented US$8.2 million. Service payments on this debt amounted
to US$0.5 million in 1974, or about 1.2 percent of export earnings, of which
payments to IDA represented 6 percent. As of the end of October 1976,
disbursed and outstanding debt to IDA had risen to US$19.7 million. Because of
Rwanda's poverty, assistance should continue to be on the most concessional
terms and should cover a high proportion of total project cost, including
local cost.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
12.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network, which is vital for the movement of the
country's domestic and foreign trade. Rwanda has received eight IDA credits
totaling US$45.7 million, of which four (including one supplemental IDA
credit) were for roads, two for agriculture, one for education, and one for a
DFC project. There have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a
tea factory was signed in June 1976. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA credits and IFC investments as of October 31, 1976 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Problems have arisen in the execution of several of the above
projects. The First Highway Project (Credit 196-RW) was affected by severe



-5-
cost overruns and, in 1975, a supplemental IDA credit was approved in the
amount of US$9.5 million. About -US$0.8 million of this credit is being-used
to help finance cost increases under the Highway Maintenance Project (Credit
299-RW) of 1972. -The Saudi Fund for Development agreed to co-finance-part of
the cost overrun of the First Highway Project with a loan of US$5.0 million
and to this effect has-signed a loan agreement with Rwanda in October -1976.
The implementation of-the Agricultural-Development (Mutara) Project' (Credit
439-RW) began in -September-1974, about a year behind schedule. 'The project
has experienced several difficulties,nearly doubl-ing the-project cost and,
following an in-depth review An, November 1975, is now being- revised- and reduced
in scope to remain within the amount of the credit (US$3.8 million). The
revision of the project--takes into-account the development-of a Canadian-
financed irrigation -and drainage project which is being-carried out in the
same area.  The Credit Agreements 'for a DFC Project and a Cinchona Project
were signed in August.
14.       We will -continue to pay close attention to the execution of ongoing
projects.  Because of'the lack of skilled manpower and expertise in-Rwanda,
this will require substantial-input of Bank-Group staff and expatriate ex-
perts. As technical assistance-is being provided by various sources, we '
will also pursue our efforts to improve cooperation and coordination among
the aid agencies active in Rwanda. With respect to new-operations, we plan to
put primary emphasis on agriculture while continuing'our 'support'to the'
highway and education-sectors. A fourth highway project is currently being
prepared, which is expected'to focus primarily on maintenance activities.-
PART III --THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
15.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, account-
ing in 1974 for about 65 percent of GDP, as well as providing the main source
of income for 95 percent of the population and-77 percent'of export earnings.
Despite the importance of agriculture and the-Government's commitment
to rural development, the share of-agriculture in-total'investments has'been
relatively modest and has consisted primarily o'f projects for tea development.
This was due mainly-to the limited human and -organizational capacity of the
Government to prepare and implement projects that would reach large numbers
of farmers.
16.       The almost universal pattern for agriculture is the small family
farm. Most farms average little over one hectare and the-pressure on land now
limits farm size close to the subsistence minimum, given present cultural tech-
niques.  There are,only limited variations in farm size from'region to region
and a larger farm is-usually indicative of poorer -quality -soil.  Thei egalitar-
ian distribution of land has created a very even income distribution.  Almost
the entire rural population-falls'into the Bank's poverty target group; in
1974, annual income per farm household averaged about US$250.



- 6 -.
17.       About 90 percent of cultivated land is under subsistence crops
such as beans, peas, potatoes, sorghum and sweet potatoes, or under bananas,
which are used or sold for traditional beer brewing. Most farmers use a
small part of their plots for an export crop, generally coffee, but also
tea, pyrethrum or cinchona in suitable growing areas. A substantial land
area - less suited to cultivation - is devoted to pasture. Livestock plays
a major role in the rural economy; the national herd was estimated at
around 700,000 cattle in 1974, in addition to a large number of goats and
sheep.
18*       Nutritional standards in Rwanda are poor.   The population as a
whole receives only 80 to 85 percent of the minimum daily requirement of
calories, and 90 to 95 percent of the minimum requirement of protein.- The
dtficiency in animal protein and fats is much higher and more widespread.
As a result, diseases related to undernutrition or malnutrition are common.
Moreover, food supplies in all areas of the country are often disrupted by
temporary local shortages, even though adjacent regions might be simulta-
neously in surplus. The Government has recognized that an increase in food
prodUction is essential, but that this must be accompanied by improvements
in" tarketing, storage and transport facilities.
19..      Rapid population growtn aictates an increase in the production of
food crops, but in view of the shortage of land this must occur primarily
-through intensification of food crop cultivation. Present productivity in
agriculture is low, even though the fertile soil (when properly cared for),
would permit increased yields. Farming is mostly traditional and is car-
ried out by hand using only the simplest of tools, mainly the hoe. Soil
conservation measures are insufficient, even on the steepest slopes. Crop
rotation is irregular, and improved seed varieties are only sparsely util-
ized. Finally, agriculture and livestock breeding are still practiced
separately.
20.       While the Government has adopted the intensification of food crop
cultivation as its basic development objective, it is not neglecting export
crops and indeed sees higher productivity in subsistence agriculture as a
vehicle for ultimately releasing land to export crops. To stimulate coffee
cultivation the Government has paid higher producer prices during the last
three-years. Other export crops, such as tea, pyrethrum and cinchona, have
been "introduced more recently and have been well received by farmers. Al-
though production is as yet small, output of these crops tripled between
1970 and 1975. Sugar cane production was also begun very recently with
favorable results.
21.       Marketing of export crops is carried out through private channels.
Coffee, like tea and pyrethrum, is purchased from farmers by traders at
prices set by the Government and exported under government supervision.
Government determines the prices for export crops mainly with reference
to-world market prices. The marketing of food crops is characterized by
the low volume marketed and wide price fluctuations,both seasonally and
regionally. Government has attempted to stabilize prices through the
National Price Commission, but the lack of supervision staff makes price
control difficult.   To improve the marketing of their food crops, farmers



-7-
have, in some instances, grouped themselves in cooperatives with government
support. Government has also created a food crop marketing office (OPROVIA)
to buy and sell stocks of stable foods for the purpose of market intervention
and price stabilization. In addition, a storage and marketing scheme financed
with the assistance of USAID has begun to reduce seasonal price variations
and to assure the availability of food crops in periods of shortage.
22.       The Government's objectives for agriculture are to be realized
through a change of emphasis in project design. Whereas previously projects
focused on a particular crop or activity and projects designed under this
strategy are still being executed, new projects will attach greater im-
portance to the overall development of rural areas. The availability of the
necessary agricultural services and also of non-agricultural services, such
as health and educational facilities, roads, markets and water supply, will
be important considerations in project design. The designation of certain
development responsibilities to the commune is a key element in executing
this strategy, since it is to serve as the focus of efforts at the grassroots
level by the various government agencies.
23.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock provides extension serv-
ices to farmers for coffee and food crop cultivation, soil conservation and
animal husbandry. Cashcrop cultivation such as coffee, tea and cinchona is
promoted by the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR), a govern-
ment agency organized under the Ministry of Agriculture in 1964. Two other
major governmental agencies have been formed to implement two larger projects
for food crop and livestock development, one assisted by the European Develop-
ment Bank and another by IDA (the Agricultural Development Project in the
Mutara region, see paragraph 13); the Government provides a wide range of
agricultural and other rural services through a number of smaller projects
and settlement schemes.
24.       Investment in agriculture in 1974 was about US$5 million or about
a quarter of total fixed investment. Some investments in other sectors
naturally assisted the rural areas also. Only a small proportion of agricul-
tural investment could be financed by the Government directly, and a major
role was played by external assistance agencies and various semi-private
or religious organizations. For the future, financing from external agencies
is likely to continue to cover a substantial proportion of local and recurrent
costs. However, while financing for agricultural development may be available,
the human and organizational constraints may prove a serious impediment to
increasing investment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
25.       A report entitled "Rwanda - Appraisal of the Bugesera Est Gisaka/
Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural Development Project" (No. 1222-RW), dated
November 17, 1976, is being circulated to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately. A credit and project summary is provided in Annex III; a map of
the project area is attached as Annex IV.



26.       The project was prepared by the Government with substantial assist-
ance from the Bank's Resident Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) and appraised
by Bank staff in May-June and December 1975. The proposed credit would be the
be the Bank Group's third in Rwanda's agricultural sector. A preliminary
draft of the mission's report was reviewed by all Rwandese government agencies
and departments concerned in May 1976. Negotiations were held in Kigali,
Rwanda, in October 1976. The Rwandese delegation was led by Mr. Leopold
Gahamanyi, Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
The Project Area
27.       The proposed project will assist in the development of Bugesera
Est, an area of about 65,000 ha in the Kigali prefecture, and Gisaka/Migongo
in the Kibungo prefecture, with an area of about 170,000 ha. Both areas form
part of the eastern plain of Rwanda, with altitudes mostly below 1,500 m
and low and erratic rainfall (generally under 1,000 mm). Agricultural devel-
opment in these prefectures has lagged behind the more favored areas, and
government services are virtually non-existent. The 23,000 cattle now
in the region are poorly managed and pastures are seriously overgrazed.
The population of the project area is estimated at around 150,000 and is
increasing rapidly, largely as a result of migration from other over-popu-
lated parts of Rwanda.
The Project
28.       The project is part of a broad-based five-year program to promote
mixed crop and livestock farming, and rural development by providing assis-
tance to farm families already in the area and to new settlers. It includes
the following major components:
(a) Tsetse Control
Spraying equipment, insecticides, vehicles and operating costs
will be financed for tsetse fly eradication in infested areas of the
Akagera River Valley in Gisaka/Migongo. The technique employed would be
handspraying of acacia trees and bush growth, and establishment of tsetse
barriers to prevent reinfestation.
(b) Extension Services and Infrastructure
Extension services for food crops and livestock will be improved
throughout the project area. Field extension services will be reorganized to
improve supervision and ensure greater contact with farmers. In addition,
training of field agents and farmers will be expanded, and essential materials
and equipment provided. Food crop and livestock field services would be
coordinated to promote stallfeeding of cows and use of manure for crops.
Extension infrastructure will be developed, including communal agricultural
centers, demonstration farms, storage facilities for equipment, dipping tanks
and bull centers.



-9-
(c) Agricultural Inputs - Farmer Credit
Agricultural inputs, including heifers and stables for stall-feeding,
will be provided to farmers on a credit basis through producer cooperatives
in the project area. Improved seeds, nursery stock, reforestation materials,
tools, beehives and fishing gear will also be supplied. Credit will be
extended for small community ventures in food crop processing and market-
ing, such as smoking ovens for fish, cooperative buildings and vehicles,
and village oil presses and flour mills. Agricultural credit is in an early
stage in Rwanda and only recently has been extended to farmers through
cooperatives by the Peoples Bank, mostly on a pilot basis, with Swiss assist-
ance. Generally, interest rates on loans by the Peoples Bank are 3 percent
per annum. The Government is currently reviewing policies and mechanisms for
the development of small-scale credit. The Government has agreed to make
proposals for credit programs to farmers through cooperatives by January 1,
1978, and to consult with the Association on their implementation at least
once a year thereafter. The proposals would specify, inter alia,the interest
rates, terms of repayment and administrative arrangements for the program
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(d) Access and Feeder Road Construction
Access and feeder roads in the project area will be constructed
or upgraded, and equipment for improved road maintenance will be provided.
Hedges will be planted along all new or upgraded roads for erosion control.
In Bugesera Est, road works would involve primarily improved maintenance
of existing roads with some extensions. In Gisaka/Migongo, three new access
roads of about 10 km each will be constructed from the Plateau to the Akagera
valley, and one existing road will be upgraded. New feeder roads will be
constructed in the valley itself, while existing feeder roads on the plateau
will be improved and maintained. Mapping of the project area and topographic
work for farm layout will be carried out.
(e) Water Development
In Gisaka/Migongo, where groundwater and springs are readily
available, drinking water for humans and for cattle will be provided under
the project. Water will be supplied primarily by gravity piped systems,
which have relatively low construction and maintenance costs per capita, and
which have also been developed elsewhere in Rwanda. Plastic pipes would
convey water from captured springs to public taps situated along roads. A
distribution system will also be developed in Bugesera Est. Water will be
pumped from Lake Mugesera through a storage reservoir to be constructed
under a separate Belgian-financed project, which would also provide water
to the Icyanya area.
(f) Social Infrastructure
A limited number of rural schools and health centers will be
constructed or expanded in the project area, particularly in the Akagera
valley and parts of Bugesera Est where no such facilities exist.



- 10 -
(g) Livestock Development
The project will finance the investment costs and working capital
for development of two small ranches for the finishing of steers for slaughter
and export, and would assist in the effort to reduce the grazing intensity on
communal pastures. One ranch will be for 1,000-2,000 head of cattle on 5,000
ha of a military reservation in southern Bugesera Est. The second will be for
8,000-1,000 head in northern Gisaka/ Migongo. Ranch operations in both
instances would be based on minimum physical infrastructure, with rotational
herding. In addition, an existing breeding ranch in the Rusumo Basin will be
expanded and improved, so that it can provide improved bulls and heifers for
sale to farmers for stall-feeding. The project also provides for the develop-
ment of stock routes with seven overnight paddocks between the production
centers of the project area, a holding ground and an intensive pilot finishing
scheme near Kigali. A dipping tank, feed troughs, stockroom and other equip-
ment and water will be furnished. A new veterinary diagnostic laboratory will
be developed in Kigali under the project to serve all livestock activities in
Rwanda.
(h) North Gisaka Pilot Irrigation Scheme
The project provides for financing buildings, vehicles and operat-
ing costs for an experimental station to be established in northern Gisaka/
Migongo. The station will conduct field trials and prepare plans for pos-
sible irrigation development and a long-term land use plan for the area.
Crops grown would include peanuts, fruit and tobacco.
(i) Technical Services
Technical assistance for project management and training of Rwandese
staff will be provided by seven full-time specialists for three to five years.
Another two specialists would be required for a new training center to be
established near Kigali for intermediate-level field staff, eventually in-
cluding staff from other national rural development programs. Pilot farmer
training programs will be carried out, in-service training for field staff
will be organized, and some overseas fellowships will be provided. In addi-
tion, the project provides for the identification of future rural development
projects and marketing studies for agricultural and livestock projects. Funds
will also be provided for consultancy services to examine operating problems
and technical issues that are likely to arise during project implementation.
All technical experts and consultants will be employed on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, and the Government will consult with
the Association on the appointment of experts and of full-time counterparts
to all such experts (Sections 3.03(b), 3.03(c) and 3.12 of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Evaluation
29.       The proposed project is similar to the Agricultural Development
(Mutara) Project in several aspects, notably in the basic objectives of
providing essential services to traditional farmers and livestock owners.



- 11 -
As indicated in para. 13, the execution of the Mutara Project has encoun-
tered a number of difficulties, which we have tried to avoid in preparing
the proposed project. The main difficulties were, that plans for an orderly
settlement of the Mutara project area could not be carried out as anticipated
because many farmers had moved into the area and established themselves before
the project could start. The start up of the Project was hampered by delays
in agreement with the Government on the implementing institution and the
selection of a suitable consulting firm to assist in the execution of the
project. To prevent such difficulties, the emphasis in the proposed proj-
ect is on improving the living conditions of the farm families already
settled in the project area and on strengthening the existing institutions.
In particular, agreement on the implementing institutions was reached with
the Government before negotiations. To avoid delays in project start up,
in July 1976 an advance of up to US$200,000 was granted to the Government
under the Project Preparation Facility which enables the Government to
recruit key project staff, establish offices and purchase equipment and
vehicles.
30.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the project will
be vested in a Project Coordination Committee, which will work under the
chairmanship of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, and will include high ranking representatives of the Ministries
of Finance, Plan, Social Affairs, and Interior. The establishment of the
Project Coordination Committee is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Project
implementation will be carried out through two separate field organizations
for Bugesera Est and Gisaka/Migongo under the supervision of a Project
Director and two Regional Directors, who will be responsible to the Project
Coordination Committee (Sections 3.02 and 3.03(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Appointment of the Project Director, the two regional
Directors and their advisers or counterparts will be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the IDA credit (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, the Government will submit to the Association, with-
in six months after credit effectiveness, a detailed project implementation
schedule for the whole project period specifying required actions and their
timing by all authorities concerned (Section 3.15 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
31.       The field staff will work closely with the prefects, bourgomesters
and local councils, and new services will be fully integrated within existing
institutions. Responsibility for management of field level activities would
be progressiively transferred to producer cooperatives in the area. Annual
work plans and budgets, incorporating the specific activities to be undertaken,
would be prepared. This would be done after consultation with the local
population through the existing communal institutions, in order to encourage
their participation in locally-initiated activities. In view of the unusual
and flexible nature of the project, disbursements for each annual work plan
will be made following the Association's approval of that plan (Sections
2.02(a) and 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). It is a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness that the Government of Rwanda deliver to IDA the
first work plan covering the period up to December 31, 1977 (Section 6.01(e)



- 12 -
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The project accounts will be
audited annually by auditors approved by the Association and a certified
copy will be sent to it within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
It is expected that a substantial staff input by the Association will
be required during supervision.
Project Cost and Financing
32.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties amounting
to about US$0.6 million, is estimated at US$22.7 million, with a foreign ex-
change component of US$9.4 million (or 40 percent). The proposed IDA credit
of US$14.0 million would cover US$6.1 million of foreign exchange costs and
US$7.9 million of local costs, amounting to 62 percent of total project costs
(net of taxes). As explained in Part I, a high percentage of local cost
financing is justified by Rwanda's extreme poverty.
33.       The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) has agreed
to provide parallel financing of US$5.0 million at 2 percent interest per
annum, repayable over 25 years including a five-year grace period. The BADEA
loan will finance the water distribution systems, the revolving funds for
cattle purchase, stock routes and holding grounds, and the North Gisaka Pilot
Irrigation Scheme. It would cover 31 percent of the project's foreign ex-
change costs and 16 percent of local costs, amounting to 22 percent of total
project costs (net of taxes). The Association and BADEA intend to cooperate
closely during project implementation. The signature of the BADEA loan
agreement will be a condition of effectiveness for the IDA credit (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
34.       The Belgian Government has agreed to finance the equivalent of
about US$0.9 million for tsetse eradication and the development of the
Rusumo Breeding Station. This would cover 4 percent of total foreign ex-
change costs and 4 percent of local costs, amounting to 4 percent of total
project costs (net of taxes).
35.       The detailed financing plan for all project costs will be as
follows:
US$
(million)           %
IDA                                      14.0              62
BADEA                                     5.0              22
AGCD (Belgium)                            0.9               4
Government of Rwanda                      1.0               4
Farmers                                   1.8              8
Total costs net
of taxes and duties                    22.7            100



- 13 -
Channeling of Credit Proceeds
36.       Funds for extension services and infrastructure, road development,
social infrastructure and livestock development will be administered by the
Project Coordination Committee. Funds for agricultural inputs, and marketing
and processing facilities will also be administered by the Committee, and
would be passed on to farmers through producer cooperatives in the project
area. Funds for the finishing ranches (including the respective part of the
proceeds of the BADEA loan) will be onlent by the Government to OPROVIA, which
is the national agency for development of food crops and animal products, and
which would be the financing agency for this component of the project. About
US$1.0 million of the proceeds of the IDA Credit will be onlent for a period
of 15 years (including 4 years grace) at 8-1/2 percent interest per annum.
The funds of the BADEA loan will be onlent for the same period, with a grace
period of 2 years and at 6 percent interest per annum. The Government and
OPROVIA will sign a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
governing the use of the proceeds of the Credit onlent to OPROVIA (Section
3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The proceeds of the BADEA
loan for water development will be administered by the Project Coordination
Committee, which would enter into a contract regarding this component with
AIDR (International Association for Rural Development), which has prior
experience in this field in Rwanda. BADEA funds for the Pilot Irrigation
Scheme will be administered by ISAR, the National Agricultural Research
Institute, under terms of a contract to be entered into between the Government
and ISAR. The Belgian Government will finance the tsetse eradication and the
expansion of the Rusumo Breeding Station under a contract with AIDR. A
revolving fund of US$200,000 will be established by the Government with IDA
prefinancing of US$180,000, in order to provide the Project Coordination
Committee with an assured source of working capital for its day-to-day opera-
tions. The fund will be replenished throughout the period of project imple-
mentation by reimbursements from the Association and government contributions
(Sections 2.02(c) through (e), and 3.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement
37.       For the supply of vehicles, equipment and agricultural inputs,
contracts exceeding US$100,000 will be awarded after international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for goods
costing less than US$100,000 will be awarded on the basis of price quotations
from supplier representatives in Rwanda, and in accordance with government
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.   Civil works for extension
infrastructure, roads, water points, ranch development and community buildings
(US$5.5 million) will be carried out on force account (possibly 'in cooperation
with local communities), or by local contractors after competitive bidding
based on local advertisement. In view of their small size, remoteness and
dispersed location, these works are unlikely to attract international bids.
Draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding US$100,000 will be submitted
to the Association for approval before invitations to bid are issued. Full
information on proposed contracts valued between US$20,000 and US$100,000 will
be submitted to the Association for review prior to award of the contract.



- 14 -
Disbursement
38.       The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of
five years against:
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs or 95 percent of total
costs of equipment and vehicles, as well as technical services
and training;
(b) 85 percent of the total cost of civil works and infrastructure
development;
(c) 70 percent of the cost of agricultural inputs (including live-
stock); and
(d) 90 percent of the cost of salaries for local staff employed
under the project and other operating costs.
Disbursements for (a) and (c) would be fully documented, while those for
(b) and (d) would be against certificates of expenditures, documents for
which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the bor-
rower and be available for inspection by the Association during the course
of project supervision. Funds disbursed and outstanding under the advance
(para. 29) will be withdrawn from the proposed credit on the effective
date (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Project Cost Recovery
39.       An estimated 150,000 people will benefit from the project, both
from increased cash income and subsistence production, and from improved
social services. For farm families, at full development (10 years after
project inception) the value of net production is expected to increase from
an average estimated US$350 to US$650 per annum, of which about US$250 would
represent an increase in cash income. This compares with the estimated 1975
GDP per capita of about US$90, or about US$450 per family. All civil works
under the project will be highly labor-intensive, and an estimated 1,000
additional persons will be employed during the construction period.
40.        Incremental project production will be derived primarily from
increased output of a range of staple food, cash crops and livestock prod-
ucts. At full development, production of crops will increase by about 25,000
tons a year, milk by 3.1 miLlion liters, meat by 2,500 tons, fish by 400 tons,
and honey and wood by about US$0.3 million in value. An estimated 60 percent
of the total value of incremental project production would be marketed commer-
cially through traditional channels for sale in other parts of Rwanda (para. 21),
thus reducing reliance on food imports from overseas. Moreover, part of the
livestock developed under the project will be exported, largely to Zaire,
either as meat or live cattle. Tsetse fly eradication and road improvement
would facilitate the marketing of project output. The project also includes
provision for assistance to local communities and producer cooperatives in
improving storage and small-scale processing facilities. The provision of



- 15 -
educational and health facilities in the project area, where they are cur-
rently noni-existent, would result in additional significant but unquantifiable
benefits. Also, institutional changes and farm-level innovations introduced
under this project should provide experience which would be replicable else-
where in Rwanda in future projects.
41.       The Government will derive benefits from the project in the form
of revenue from the proposed fattening ranches and increased taxes collected
from marketed project production. Costs of agricultural inputs will be re-
covered from farmers since they will be provided on a credit basis. Costs
of infrastructure developments, notably roads, water development and communal
buildings, will be shared (in accordance with normal Rwandese practice) with
local communities, which will participate in construction and provide materials.
About one fourth of the costs of livestock services will be recovered from
farmers, who will pay the cost of drugs. Costs of extension services and
other costs not recovered directly from producers will be viewed as basic
public services, to be recovered through increased tax revenues. The Govern-
ment is currently considering the possible introduction of special taxes or
surcharges in areas benefiting from intensive' development programs, and will
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, proposals for such
cost recovery arrangements by January 1, 1978 (Section 4.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Justification and Risks
42.       Farm budgets demonstrate that even relatively small investments
and simple modifications in existing farming systems in the project area
promise to yield high financial returns. The economic rate of return from
the directly productive elements of the project has been estimated at 32
percent over 20 years. The estimated value of incremental farm labor was
included in the economic analysis. An increase in total costs or a decrease
in benefits of 10 percent would, in each case, lower the rate of return by
four percentage points to 28 percent. If costs were 20 percent higher and
benefits 20 percent smaller than anticipated, the rate of return would be
16 percent.
43.       The project involves substantial risks, since successful develop-
ment will depend on the effectiveness of efforts to persuade farmers to adopt
new techniques on a wide scale. Improved organization of extension services,
better coordination among government agencies, and introduction of new insti-
tutions and programs will be difficult and complex tasks, but are essential
to the success of the project. An additional risk is the possibility that
institutional innovations and technical assistance will lapse following the
investment period, without leaving in place a sufficiently viable system for
continuing services and maintaining infrastructure. The project will seek
to overcome these risks through its institution-building and training aspects.
Moreover, offsetting these risks are two factors: first, real possibilities
exist for improving services and raising levels of production very substan-
tially, and second, a large number of poor families would be keen to increase
cash incomes and raise nutritional levels. Also, the process of annual work



- 16 -
plans (para. 30) will permit the execution of the project to be scrutinized
carefully and to be modified in light of experience. Although we feel that
these precautions should avoid the type of difficulties which have occured
in the Mutara Project, the complexities of Rwanda's development may still
pose unforeseen obstacles. To resolve such problems as soon as they arise,
the project will be closely supervised.
44.       Another, albeit very unlikely, risk lies in a possible proposal
to construct a powerdam on the Rusumo falls. Such a proposal is being con-
sidered in a UNDP financed regional development plan for the Akagera River
Basin, which is bordered by Rwanda, Tanzania and Burundi. If such a dam
were constructed, large areas in the project area could be flooded. How-
ever, it seems improbable that the Government of Rwanda would ever agree to
the realization of such a dam given the high cost of losing scarce land and
the very limited benefits it would derive from the current scheme. Neverthe-
less, the Government has agreed to exchange views with the Association before
making any engagements regarding the development of the Akagera River Basin
that would affect the project area (Section 4.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Rwanda and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
46.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 28(c), 28(i), 30, 31, 33, 36, 41 and 44
of this report. In particular, the following special conditions of credit
effectiveness are provided (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement):
(a) establishment of the Project Coordination Committee
(b) appointment of the Project Director, the Regional
Directors and their respective counterparts.
(c) establishment of the revolving fund;
(d) delivery of the first work plan covering the period
up to December 31, 1977; and
(e) signing of the loan agreement between the Government
and BADEA.



- 17 -
47.       The draft Development Credit Agreement (para. 4 of Schedule 1), also
provides, as a condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit to be
onlent to OPROVIA, that the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and OPROVIA has been duly executed and authorized by the parties, that the
conditions of effectiveness of the BADEA loan agreement have been fulfilled,
and that the Government and BADEA have agreed on the specific goods to be
financed.
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 2, 1976






-~~~~  -~~~~~~--   - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OO I 
Is-e                             -                            s 
ha I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V A....
0 - ; 
a                                                                                     a L
21  'A
**.i01 1:1 4**                          00 0  000 
I      It                                          -4 4  Ma;2) 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~I a  aI
*  0  oa  @000@ ~~~~~~~~.  N  @00  00  00. ~~~~~~~~  000  000  *  .0 0 CI  I *  @0011~~~I  0.1:  i  (
Imamm   00  04                      IN  N .N 
IS  onWIMO
*  40a          N                                                                g  0~~~~~~ C b
a10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N           u~~~~~ 
ii  I                                                                           :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  1.ICO  -
*                                  0O,Ul
OS  4000                                                          a - 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~owah
"M 0  40 .  -            U  0 00lg                         m  iu     a        ' t -SI
00060  I.. ~~~z c  R0  0 JR    I  W0  I0 a        )1  b
to  a            -0 3A0   0          ..aa  h04                    I XW0ere  A.
IL  z   we 0                        0201 o6N:aWxwwo                   a.   Wc
0  0  .100 
M  la,  a  *0  -  t 0 001   -U                               @.  bf U. Wu     I%fOS   .0 0.'." W
CS  ND~~~4 OW &  4         NW5  IL0..1  W I M000 a 10 *  .-s  L-a is   ' o a  inmaa@W
5 0  IL 0              W~~~~~~~~~~~~a  lo  w0e hSC:                      2



rage 2 of I pages
UAl..., oth"relo. moatd, dasta far 1960 -ste to NW 7e betwen 1959 med 1.961, far 19,70 hetee 1968 sod 1970, aed for Post Recent REtioate bt-e.
1971 sod 197.
Keny~a has beow selected assm objective tsyU bscu5s it in550 Africano osotry with so agicuat,ure-based enooou shich h.. succeeded in _acbi.5
a level of eeoo.c ds,e1opmt eshbetatislly highr the that of bends.
M&IA  L6      La  19571    b  btijo of popelatima under 1S sod 65 end seer to total labor force;   /. 1962.
1170    15-59 and 60 yeerw sod over s'gpwUeetly;    /b Patio Of Ppulezation under 15 sod 60 sod over to total labor force;
i964-66.
__T_     PM___1___       La iacu-g1        ve.    b   Economic      mission     estimates.
____a       19_0_   L   1966    lb PAtio of popu    ice under 15 sod 65  eA "oer to total labor force -;  LI Vovec545 of dta. or-.kn-;    /d 196L-66;
/a 19671 If Urban only.
TAAM        1970    La  HotUAn   TsoAsriaI   a   1967;  Le  1965;   A    Urban omly.
MU        197      /aBecter.d only;     /b 1962-69w      c  PaLtio of popolatico under 15 aod 65 end over to lobor force age 15-59 years;    La .bo r
forem age 15-59 yea'rsI  /O Uz;m       If  Hfitered, cot all practiolog in the cuoutry.
R2, Hey 3, 1976
MD[rrMNS OF SicrAL OEDCA¶ORtS
lAgd Ar- (thou  2e                                                                  PoVation Mr nurasing Perso    - Population divied by nasber of practicing
To    YI    Whine ares nopr-eing lsend are      md inland waters.                     sel so   rewle gradoate nurses, "trained" or "certified' nursom, and
a * - bet.1 renset .etisat. a arioois"ar     ware use  taessily or arauxiliary personnel ,dth training or .aepriance.
anawatly for crop., pastors, warhet & kitbmi gurdeu    or to lie fallow.          t        WE        itlbd- Population divided by ,ouer of hospital baed
aviai111eiptbhId          pd~rivate general and specialised hoepital and
2%M  Eia Q31)- MPI pe capita estimates at market prices, cabsu-                 rehabilitation centera; a=cdaw nursing homes end establishunta for
ram tvereio       method as World Besk Atlas (1972-74 basis).              custodial and prevetive core.
Per ap   ta suppy ofcaories1 of rpeuiranental - Comptsd froc ener
mid vital ata istice  ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~      eeielet     fM ne  fo  sppis available in country per capita per day;
=     tl:W      ~      Mlin     A. of July first; if not available, -avrage           available supplies ocprise doestic production, qetort    lees epoprta,
ft- dtyie       -antes.                                                             and changes in stock; not supplies, eclude animal feed, sdeed, qoanti-
ties used in food processing and losses in distribution; rqir-enets
Poputlation eesty      r,squ  are n - Mld-year population per square bile-            ..er  -tinated by FAO0 based on physiological Maded for normal activity
meter (12hcae)o          oa    rs                                                    nd health considering environsental teop.rature, body weights, age and
Popultiondinlit  er Ouars kmi of sagrc. lend - Ca,oted &as above for            sam distributions of population, end a11-ing 10% for waste at household
Per c.Vita splof protei (grae per da) - Protein content of Per
Vital ettietice                                                                       cpit. net uppl    otfodprdyct supply of fond is defined as
mde brth ra er thousand -Annual live births per thousand of mid-                  above; requirsints for all countries established IV USDA Ecan.cd
year population; usullyfiv-y'ar everages ending in 1960, 1970 sod                   Research Services provide for a mininnum allcs,ance of 60 grace of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                      protein per day, and 20 gross of anisal and pulse protein, of Adich 10
Crude death rate uer thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of rdd-year                grass should be animal protein; these standdard  arellower than those of
popultion;   winull  five.year averges ending in 1960, 19,70 and 1975               75 cr-   ef tota1 W-ti    end 23 g-o   of enteal protein as an average
for devloping countri.s.                                                            for the enrld, proposed by FAO io the Third World Pond Survey.
'.fqi~trl'. rte ,~to.)- Annual deaths of infanta under one yea              Pler capita poein supl from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
MiOaj    ns1diih 1IiIbirths.                                                  derlvdfrmanml        an pulses In graom per day.
ug ~  ~   ~   brh      e -Aeae       ubr fyas        flf    rmi-Deathrats                   thou~  as 1-   - Anua_l deaths per thousmnd in ago group 1-4
u~r~P suaiiiiU r1~yeaw &avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and                     yastoil~V~T                age group; suggested as on indicat-orfa na-
1975 fey developing coutries,                                                       nutritio.-
or".rooducton ate- Average n-ber of live daughtersa    soanwll
bI  in ber nghi=9    productive period if she eVeriecev present age-              Education
specifIc fertility rates; usully five-year averages -sding in 1960,               Adjstd,enrollmnt rati.o -pisary School - inrolb-net of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                              ecnaeo.rmr            cho-age POPulation; ion lud-s children aged
Popuaton roth roe       g)-total - Copound annual gr-sth rates of rid-                6-11 years but adjusted for different langths of primary edcaxtion;
yerpouaion     fo r  1950-n  10-70,en190icotrctya.                                for countries with universal education, enrollmet may    -sed 100%
EM R94p.rOfm rts (%IdR- c-a        - Coeputed like growth rate of total               since soma pupils ore below or above the official school age.
p iltiijhwetiitj i        - f urban area coy afrfwtcoqaa                  Adjusted enollettratio. - secondary school -fCOvPuted as above; second-.
billty of data amang countri.s.                                                     oyeuainrqie            at les   Pour yars ofapprove.d primary instruc-
Uranpovpulatien(% of toal     - Retio of urban to total population; dif-              tin; provides general, vo-ctlonal or teacher training instructions for
reret deinItons   l' areas sa  affect cosq,arabllity of data                pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
amang countries,                                                                    excluded.
Age  tr-t6  rcnt)- Children (0-1L yerar), werking-age (15-64 years),          Yerar of scolingpoie        fcs    n  eon    ees        Total years ,cf
.i  re,   gt    year and over) as percentagen of rid-year population.               scoln;a        eod       ee,voaioa        instgcio    may be partially
Ageden~ny   atio -Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end ove   to                or completely excluded.
~~ 61.                                                  Vocational enrollment (5 of~~~~~~~~~r   seodry  Voatonal institutions Include
lcft     ~          ~~~~ Ratio of Population under 15 end 65 end overtehia,id.raloohrpognsdlc                                 O  rteneednly          r
to te lborforc  liigegroup of 15-61 yrear.                                    dondpat-tmnt of secodary institutions.
Family Planning - acepvtore (cuBulative. thou) - Cueulstive nunber of               Adult literac rt   (%) - Literate adult, (able in read and write) as per-
enceptors of birth-cotrol devices under auspices of national racily                 cenaeo     oa     dult population aged 15 Years and over.
planning program since inception.
Pamlyplannig      - users (5 of maried  -amn) - Percentgage  of married
to  hl-bearing age (15-hiyars.     h use birth-control de-                 ;.7.o%   grrm(       -.    - Average un-ber of Persons Per ro-n in occupied
vices to all curried wosen in sane age gmvou.                                       conventionnal *wllings jin urban areas; dwelIlings seclude non-perinnet
structures and unoccupied parts.
Occupied deelling without piped water (f) - Occupied conventional dwell-
fr     thouand) - Ec-nminally active persons, including               to   i  urba  aM a       reswtot ine,id. or outside piped -tobe
w1b   orcs :an un   onyed bat, exclding houseives. studonte, etc.;              facilities a  percentage of all occuied     ellings.
definitions in various coutries ore not cosparable.                              Acosso to electicit (5of ol dwellings) -Cnetoa             dwellings with
labo   fore    inavTipul .g(     - Agricultural labor force (in fering,                lcrct      nlvn      quar     Be a percent of total dwellings in urban
forestry,  ihitlling and   isig) as percentage of total loabr force,               and rivl areas.
- Uaapye  ar usall  deine  asper      Rual welinsom    conncted to electricity (%) - Coeqpcted ansabove for rural
Bonwoa        bl      dwUn    to take a job, out of a Job on a given                dellitgs only.
day, remin d out of a job, end seeking werk for a specified edniona
period not   ceeding one sek   mayW not be Inoprable between noun-                cn,,to
tries duea to differet definitions of usWloyed and source of date,                 SI:ites            thu      )   - al tYPos of' receivers for radio broad-
e.g. eqeloyment Office sttatistics, amnple eleveys, c,mpulsory uon-.               caste to i-.al ifc     tpe     ...u.ad of population; secldes uolicensed
ploy,ent insuraixe.                                                                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets  a
in effect; data for recent years nay not be cosqearble since mastco-
Inecee disetribution - Percentage of private income, (bath in caeh end               tries abolished licenseing.
kind) received by ri.hest 5%, rioheet 20%, pooreet 20%, and pooret                Passebgnercare(pe   thou PoP) - Passenger cors roeprise mater cr   seating
10% of households,                                                                 lehictlen eiht Persons; excludes enblano s, hearses and ellitory
Distibuionof andcenrshp -Percentages of laid owned by wealthiest                                               I -nna  -onouqti-n of lidustria1l comar-
are                                                  f~~~~~~~~~~opuocnpcuatc letict  in kiloWatt heairs per capita; gen-
ft~~~~~~~~a;d  on ~~~~~~~~~~erally based oc product~ien data, without allowance for losse                                      In grids
tealt   nd   tien                                                                 but allowing for iqeport  and expor ts of electricity.
I  on  P3aicion - Population divided by number of practicing               N.-Drit (k./_ -pr can)     _ Per capitanuloiustonnkigrc
p wic ms qualiae frm         medical school at univareity level.                    ~                        rdc     Ion pls co  Wisipotaof  n kilogromt



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
CGWS    TIU*ONAL PUoot   rll    R97o4                                                G            92      prieg)
US $ MIn.        7                       1960-65           1i970Z7             1974
GNP at Market Prices           3C0.3,       100.0                                           1.2               0.1
Gross Domestic Investment       32.3 -      10.7                                            5 34
Gross National Saving           12.9'        4.3                        * *                13.1           - 16.2
Current Account Balance       - 19.4       - 6.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           37.6        12.5                        . .                -2.              13.4
Imports of Goods, NPS           65.9        21.9                        * .                -1.,             33.4
OUTPVr, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197 4
2/
Value Added                         Labor Forcer                    V. A. Per Worker
USL-m-in S  M                       TlOnA.        7                      A .-       7.
Agriculture                  182.7         63.7                  1636        93.2                  1   7       68.4
Industry                      28.5        10.0                     60:8                                       X   4
Services                      75.5        26.3                     69         1:l9
Unallocated                                                        691ij 10010.163 oo
Total/Average                      10.                      Mg         100.0                 -j73 3      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                         3/
General Government                            Central GovernmentY
(      Mln.)         7 of GDP                 (RtF    Mln.)     I % of GDP
197           197      196 -7                  mL7k        19714    19/  /U
Current Receipts                                                                     35            123     14.6
Current Expenditure35123                                                                                    47
Current Surplus                                                                      -279         -1.0     -1.1
Capital Expenditures                                                                  245          0.9      1.0
External Assistance (net)                                                             *.            *       0-
M4ONEY, CK{EDLT and PRICFS
1970    L971   1972    1973    1974   1975
Money and Quasi Money                           2264   2607    2679    72       5       9
Bank Credit to Public Sector        1166   1419    2072    2222   3917    2468
Bank Credit to Private Sector 5/                493     730     568    1041   2043    2070
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               10.1    11.7   11.8    15.2    18.0
General Price Index (1970 - 100) 6/            100.0   100.5  103.6   113.3   148.5  193.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                              0.5     0.5    3.1     9.4   31.1    30.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                   -1.0     21.7   46.0    7.2    35.8   -18.2
Bank credit to Privete Sector                   94.9    48.1  -22.2    83.6   96.3     1.3
1/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at 1972-74    mrket prioes, calmulated.by the same convereion
technique as the 1975 World Atlas.   All other conversions to dollars in this table are
at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2/ rnJUallocatedif consists Of unemployed people vithaut occupation fcr health reasons, old age, etc. StatistIcs
available refer to occupational distribution of populatiOn aboe 15 years, i.e. not exactly to labor frce.
3/ Excluding extemnal aasistance
4/ Economic miusion estimate
5/ Bank credit to private sector includes claims on official entities                          .  o   vial
6/ Consumer price index for Kigali                                                             . not available
.not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN RWANDA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at October 31, 1976)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Credit     Fiscal                                          2/
Number      Year    Borrower       Purpose             IDA          Undisbursed
196-RW      1970     Rwanda        Kigali-Gatuna
Road Construction    18.8 1/          5.5
299-RW      1972     Rwanda        Road Maintenance     3.0              0.4
439-RW      1974     Rwanda        Agropastoral
Development           3.8             2.6
475-RW      1974     Rwanda        Ruhengeri-Gisenyi
Road Construction    6.3              3.8
567-RW      1975     Rwanda        Education            8.0              7.9
655-RW       1977    Rwanda        DFC                  4.0 3/           4.0 3/
656-RW       1977    Rwanda        Agriculture
(Cinchona)           1.8 3/           1.8 3/
Total                                   45.7            26.0
of which has been repaid:
Total now held by IDA 2/                45.7
Total undisbursed                                       26.6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. No other
investments have been made so far.
1/   Including a supplementary credit of US$9.5 million made in November 1975.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 196-RW    Kigali-Gatuna Project; US$9.3 million credit of June 17,
1970; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977;
US$9.5 million supplementary credit of December 19, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Construction works were interrupted in April 1975 because of a cost
overrun amounting to about US$16.0 milion, including a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$13.7 million. In addition to the subsequent US$9.5 million
supplementary IDA credit, of which US$8.7 million is earmarked for the
completion of the Kigali-Gatuna Road, the Saudi Fund for Development has
agreed to co-finance the cost overrun with a loan of US$5.0 million. The
supplemental IDA credit became effective on February 8, 1976 and the Saudi
loan was signed in February 1976. Construction works were resumed in January
1976, with completion expected by mid-1977.
Credit No. 299-RW    Highway Maintenance Project; US$3.0 million credit
of April 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Delays in project implementation have resulted in cost increases
for equipment, spare parts and materials. The supplementary IDA credit men-
tioned above included US$0.8 million to help finance these costs increases.
The cost of technical assistance, for which UNDP contributed a US$1.1 million
grant, has also increased. As a result, the UNDP grant was exhausted about
9 months before the consultants' contractual period terminates on December 31,
1976, and an additional US$260,000 is needed to keep the consultants in the
country for the period originally envisaged. As UNDP will be unable to pro-
vide additional funds, the Government and the Bank Group have agreed to use
part of the proceeds of the supplemental IDA credit for the Kigali-Gatuna
Road project to finance the technical assistance.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the solutions taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 434-RW   Agricultural Development Project; US$3.8 million credit
of November 29, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project implementation began about a year behind schedule because of
delays in selecting a suitable consulting firm to assist in project execution.
Various difficulties have since been encountered, particularly in recruiting
staff and in defining the project area. In a large area spontaneous settle-
ment has occurred before project implementation was underway, thus restrain-
ing the possibilities for organized settlement as envisaged in the project.
On the other hand, plots prepared for organized settlement have not yet been
allocated as potential settlers are unwilling to sign settlement contracts
which require settlers to pay fees after an initial period of four years.
In addition, project cost has increased from US$4.3 million to US$7.0
million, mainly as a result of worldwide price increases. In view of these
problems, the project was reviewed in depth in November 1975 and discussions
were held with the Government on the future course of action. The project is
now being revised, which will entail a reduction in scope of some of its
components in order to remain within the amount of the funds available in
the credit. This revision will also take into account the implementation of
the Canadian-financed irrigation project in the same area. Coordination with
regard to the implementation of both projects will be continued in the future
by all parties concerned.
Credit No. 475-RW    Ruhengeri-Gisenyi Road Construction (Third Highway) Project;
US$6.3 million credit of March 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: June 5, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The start of construction was postponed for about 4 months to permit
supervising consultants to complete detailed engineering. Slow contractor's
mobilization added to the delays. Completion of the project is now expected
by August 1977, about 15 months behind schedule. Costs are expected to re-
main within the original estimates.
Credit No. 567-RW   Education Project; US$8.0 million credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project execution has started satisfactorily. Construction of the
school and financing unit and the printshop is being prepared, and staffing
of the unit is well underway. Locations for the workshops to be constructed
under the project are being determined. Other financing sources have agreed
to finance various items included in the project. The Federal Republic of
Germany has agreed to provide all printing equipment for the printshop, while
UNDP will finance the technical assistants to be recruited through UNESCO.
The credit funds thus released will be reallocated to the construction of
additional workshops or other related project items.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 655-RW    Rwandese Development Bank Project;
US$4.0 million credit of August 20, 1976;
Terminal Date of Credit Effectiveness: January 17, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 656-RW    Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million credit of August 20, 1976;
Terminal Date of Credit Effectiveness: January 17, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA - BUGESERA EST GISAKA/MIGONGO
MIXED FARMING AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Rwanda
Amount:               US$14.0  million
Terms:                Standard
Project
Description:         The project, which will be cofinanced by BADEA with a
US$5.0 million loan and by the Kingdom of Belgium with
a US$0.9 million grant, would promote mixed crop and
livestock farming, and rural development. Specifically,
it would provide:
(a) spraying equipment and insecticides for tsetse fly
eradication;
(b)  field extension services and infrastructure;
(c)  credit for agricultural inputs and livestock;
(d)  construction and upgrading of access and feeder
roads;
(e)  drinking water distribution systems for the human
population and livestock;
(f)  improved social infrastructure, including schools
and health centers;
(g)  two finishing ranches, expansion of an existing
breeding ranch, and improved livestock marketing
through establishment of stock routes and a pilot
finishing ranch;
(h)  a research station and pilot irrigation scheme in
northern Gisaka;
(i)  technical assistance, including training and
feasibility studies.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Project costs:        Total project cost (including taxes and duties of
US$0.6 million) is estimated at about US$23.3
million, of which approximately US$9.4 million,
or 40 percent, represents foreign exchange require-
ments.
Details are as follows:
Component                  Local     Foreign     Total        Foreign Exchange
(US$'000)                        %
Tsetse control               257         162       419               39
Extension services         1,860       1,084     2,944               37
Agricultural inputs        2,071         777     2,848               27
Roads                        794         239     1,033               23
Water development            544       1,244     1,788               70
Social infrastructure        343         202       545               37
Livestock development      1,509         466     1,975               24
Pilot irrigation scheme      513         730     1,243               59
Technical services         1,699       1,586     3,285               48
Subtotal         9,590      6,490     16,080               40
Physical contingencies     1,156         742     1,898               39
Expected price increases   3,193       2,148     5,341               40
Total project costs       13,939.      9,380    23,319               40
Financing Plan:       The financing of the project is expected to be shared
as follows:
US$                        %
(millions)
IDA                                       14.0                      62
BADEA                                      5.0                      22
Belgium                                    0.9                       4
Government of Rwanda                       1.0                       4
Farmers                                    1.8                       8
Total costs net of
taxes and duties                         22.7                     100
Taxes and duties                           0.6
Total project costs                       23.3



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year      Annual          Cumulative
----- (US$ million) 
1977            0.75              0.75
1978            1.25              2.00
1979            2.00              4.00
1980            3.00              7.00
1981            4.00             11.00
1982            3.00             14.00
Procurement:          Contracts for the supply of vehicles, equipment and
agricultural inputs exceeding US$100,000 will be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for goods costing
less than US$100,000 will be awarded on the basis of
price quotations from supplier representatives in
Rwanda, and in accordance with government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory. In view of their
small size, remoteness and dispersed location, civil
works for extension infrastructure, roads, water points,
ranch development and community buildings are unlikely
to attract international bids. They will be carried
out on force account or by local contractors after
competitive bidding based on local advertisement.
Economic rate of
return:              32 percent
Estimated project
completion date:     December 31, 1981
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1222-RW, dated Novemberl7, 1976
Map:                  IBRD 11697R



I



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) for maize
research (US$0.2 million). The planning studies for
the development of the areas freed from onchocerciasis
would be carried out by consultants recruited inter-
nationally according to IDA guidelines (US$0.5 million).
Procurement of items financed by BADEA, ADF, and CCCE
would be carried out under their respective arrange-
ments. It is not expected that procurement of goods
financed by donors other than IDA would result in higher
costs than if all procurement were made under IDA pro-
cedures.
Consultants:           Total consultant's services would amount to about
46 man-years:
(a)-30 man-years of technical assistance to CMDT to
help in the general implementation of the project,
and
(b)-16 man-years of technical assistance for a research
program (cotton, kenaf, maize).
Rate of Return:        Excluding studies and the health component which account
for 4% of the project and for which no meaningful rate
or return could be estimated, the overall rate of return
on the project is estimated at 44%.
Staff Project
Report:              Report No. 1171-MLI, dated November 16, 1976.
Map:                   IBRD 12121R



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 12 months;
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Institut d'Economie
Rurale in Mali (IER);
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: December 1974; date
of the first Bank mission to consider the project: April 1975;
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: November 3, 1975;
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: October 15, 1976;
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: April 30, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Soon after the Credit Agreement has been signed, a supervision
mission will be sent.   Since there are a number of co-financiers (ADF, BADEA,
FAC, and CCCE), they will be asked to join this mission. This mission will
pay particular attention to the fulfillment of the conditions of effective-
ness of the IDA credit.
Section III: Special Credit Conditions
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) If after one year of project implementation, provision of
agricultural equipment and inputs is unsatisfactory,
Government and IDA would agree on measures satisfactory
to IDA to remedy the situation (para. 29).
(b) Farmers' repayments to CMDT would be kept in a revolving
fund for the sole use of CMDT farmers (para. 37).
(c) consultants required to conduct the studies for the
development of the areas freed from onchocerciasis
would have qualifications and experience acceptable
to Government and IDA (para. 43).
(d) The subsidiary agreement between Government and CMDT
regarding the on-lending of IDA funds would be accept-
able to IDA (para. 38).
(e) A number of changes would be made in the "bareme" for
cotton lint, starting in 1977/78, as follows:    (para. 36).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(i) CMDT's commission would be increased to the present
level of 5% of the ex-ginnery price so that the
equity of CMDT, which would have been increased by
the incorporation of retained earnings, amounts to
10% of the overdraft facilities given CMDT by the
Central Bank by 1979/80;
(ii) the "bareme" would include a provision for the
depreciation of equipment; and
(iii) the "bareme" would include a provision to cover
subsidies given CMDT farmers for the purchase of
agricultural inputs.
(f) The terms of the agreements between CMDT, and SOMIEX,
ITEMA and COMATEX would be acceptable to IDA and that
they would be adhered to (para. 36).
(g)  Government would assure the provision of adequate credit
facilities to CMDT (para. 37).
(h) Satisfactory assurances have been received that the con-
tributions of the other donors would be made (condition
of effectiveness, para. 37).
(i) A subsidiary agreement had been concluded between Gov-
ernment and CMDT regarding the on-lending of IDA funds
(condition of effectiveness, para. 38).
(j) The "baremes" applicable to CMDT's products are to be
calculated on the basis of actual costs incurred by
CMDT during the preceding campaign as adjusted for
subsequent economic changes (condition of effective-
ness, para. 35).
(k) Government would have taken measures satisfactory to IDA
so that overdue debts owed to CMDT by SOMIEX, ITEMA and
COMATEX would be paid within six months of credit signing,
and that all stock of lint and cotton seed from the 1975/76
crop at charge to SOMIEX would have been paid for (condition
of effectiveness, para. 36).






To              806Q                          6°0X                    OPI       
Kay,                                          6PTI24
TenenkouQ
0 Bandiagara        600 i
\ \K\ a><-             M A LI
140                                                                                Bankass Koro,.iMALI SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
8619                                               Msina  Dlene/... -:RC
Kolokni> _anaba ,y9/ )700  .COTTON
goo                    0                                                                                           KENAF
r1 San   TOmnianiaf \      JCMDT LIMIT
fJ PROJECT COTTON GINNERY
tDoOV--                 g   S                                 ,     f                -800                     a   EXISTING COTTON GINNERIES
Bo-o ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
mparana~~~~~~~~~~ ~MAJOR ROADS
BAMAK                {+'                                                                                    RIVERS
K tia                             /(                                ,-*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0      50    100    150
KILOMETERS
12                                    7100                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120d
1200 t   )   /4/  t   l '  t;DO      11 tE>^L               NALGERIA
_                                                                                                         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
MAURITANIA
an 0                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALI
ENEGAL                   NIGER4
>                                                                              d4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISSA  GUIA 
(Z       S     Kadiolo'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c,40,                                                                                                         SE  ATJIOY     ANI 
cn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OS
--IG         NE






| CAMERCON~ _>. -) f  _-  i  i_  __Tee " v i l gw --  / h l tnp d o osmcl39
r   -s   -,  /.  r~  I(  .1k4  -- hpbcdonp  or - PPd se. bs ;7 o,_
r,~~ 1__ ...... }._+r ~~i >J D 5 K EN YA ....  iloree*nxsill ;~~~ i
r   Z A I R E   ;S               \,
A,,,G0Lo.'o        1-Z/'AMBIA         9 A t
U G A N D A      -  -   Xoota  ,f 
iu h  A v  X     : M 8 -    0 f x  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A G E R A,  1'30'-lmh,,d
hj:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i IX  0 N,  N 
/ SJ 44° ' ~~T                    BUEEA ES,GSK/IOG
'R  r4 . r       .I\AIXD FAMING ND RUAL DVELOPENT POJEC
2     X   X ,ro0rod                                    r0etburrre
iBUC _<  tv  8      0                 b _:4: River6   I  bove bOO meteErs,y-
_  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                     ,                       > 



