Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1849 KE
             (National Agricultural Research Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 13, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  has  entered  into  an  agreement,  dated
August 29, 1986, with  the  United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) under  which  USAID  has  provided, on a grant
basis,  assistance  in  an  amount  of  twenty-eight  million five
hundred thousand  dollars  ($28,500,000)  (the  USAID  Grant), for
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an  agreement  (the  USAID  Grant  Agreement) between the
Borrower and USAID;
     (C)  the Borrower  has  requested  from  the  Kingdom  of the
Netherlands (the Netherlands) a  grant  in an amount approximately
Page  2
equivalent  to   ten   million   one   hundred   thousand  dollars
($10,100,000) (the Netherlands Grant)  to assist in financing part
of the Project;
     (D)  the Borrower has  requested  from  the European Economic
Community  (EEC)  a  grant  approximately  equivalent  to nineteen
million one hundred thousand dollars ($19,100,000) (the EEC Grant)
to  assist  in  financing  part  of  the  Project,  on  terms  and
conditions set forth in an  agreement (the EEC Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and EEC;
     (E)  the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom intend to  enter into a Memorandum of Under-
standing (the ODA Memorandum of  Understanding) for the purpose of
making available goods and services  to  the Borrower with a value
of  approximately  ten   million   two  hundred  thousand  dollars
($10,200,000) (the ODA Grant)  to  assist in financing the Project
on terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  ODA  Memorandum of
Understanding;
     (F)  the Project will be  carried  out  by the Kenya Agricul-
tural Research Institute  with  the  Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower  will make available to the
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute  the  proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and Kenya Agricultural Research Institute;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "KARI" means the  Kenya Agricultural Research Institute,
a body corporate established pursuant to Section 12 of the Science
and Technology Act, Chapter 250  of the Borrower's Laws as amended
to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and KARI of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "NARP"  means   the   Borrower's  National  Agricultural
Research Project;
     (d)  "NRC" means a National Research Center under KARI;
     (e)  "RRC" means a Regional Research Center under KARI;
     (f)  "Donors" means the USAID, EEC, ODA, the Netherlands, and
any other bilateral or  multilateral agency assisting in financing
NARP;
     (g)  "Plan of Action" means the  plan of action for implemen-
tation of NARP, agreed upon between the Borrower, the Association,
Page  3
the Donors and KARI; and
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of  letters,  dated  April  10,  1987, and July 10,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to  fifteen  million  five  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,500,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the  authorized  amount of the Project Pre-
paration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1993, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing January  15,  1998,  and  ending  July  15,  2022. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on July 15,
2007, shall be one and  one-fourth  percent (1-1/4%) of such prin-
cipal amount, and  each  installment  thereafter  shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years and; (ii) the
Page  4
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under  this Agreement, shall
cause KARI to perform,  in  accordance  with the provisions of the
Project Agreement, all the obligations  of KARI therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be  taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to  enable  KARI  to  perform such obligations, and
shall not take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
available to KARI as a grant.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Project
and to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out  by  KARI  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Unless  the  Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that KARI implements the Project in
accordance with the Plan of Action;  (b) not later than January 31
in each year, commencing in  1988, review progress in implementing
the Plan of Action with the Association, the Donors and KARI, and;
(c) thereafter, make such  adjustments  to  the  Plan of Action as
shall be required by such review.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) an indepen-
dent review of KARI's research activities is carried out, at least
once every five years, by  an  outside Review Panel, with terms of
reference and composition  acceptable  to  the Association and the
Donors; and (b) by not later than March 31, 1991, a review of NARP
Page  5
is undertaken by  the  Borrower,  the  Association, the Donors and
KARI.
     Section  3.06.  The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  ensure  that  the
linkages between the extension  services  of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and the  Ministry  of  Livestock  Development and KARI are
improved; and (ii) by not  later than December 31, 1988, introduce
such improved linkages between research and extension.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  KARI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that KARI will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
     (c)  The Science  and  Technology  Act,  Chapter  250  of the
Borrower's Laws, shall  have  been  amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of  KARI  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KARI or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the  event  specified  in  paragraph  (e)(i)(B)  of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e)(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.O1. The following  events  are  specified as  addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.O1 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  KARI has  appointed  the  staff  members  referred to in
Part A, paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  KARI has submitted  to  the  Association its revised and
updated training plan referred to  in  Part B, paragraph 7 (b) (i)
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
     (c)  KARI  has  approved  the  revised  staff  structure  and
establishment referred to in Section  2.05  (a) (i) of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 6.O2. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2  (b) of the General
Page  7
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association,  namely,  that the Project Agreement
has been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  KARI  and is legally
binding upon KARI in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1.  The  minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  ll.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINANCE                           22003
               Nairobi                           FOREIGN Nairobi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                    By /s/ Denis D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
Page  8
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated         % of
                            (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  For Part A
     of the Project:
     (a) Civil works             780,000      80%
     (b) Vehicles,               450,000      100% of foreign
         plant and                            expenditures and
         equipment                            70% of local
                                              expenditures
     (c) Non-salary            1,220,000      (i)  40% up
         operating                                 to an
         costs                                     aggregate
                                                   amount of
                                                   SDR 630,000;
                                                   thereafter
                                              (ii) 25% up
                                                   to an
                                                   aggregate
                                                   amount of
                                                   SDR 1,040,000;
                                                   and thereafter
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated         % of
                            (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
                                              (iii) 10% up
                                                    to an
                                                    aggregate
                                                    amount of
                                                    SDR 1,220,000.
(2)  For Part B
     of the Project:
     (a) Civil works           5,370,000      80%
     (b) Vehicles,             2,240,000      100% of foreign
         plant and                            expenditures and
         equipment                            70% of local
                                              expenditures
     (c) Non-salary            1,680,000      (i)   40% up
         operating                                  to an
         costs                                      aggregate
                                                    amount of
                                                    SDR 880,000;
                                                    thereafter
Page  9
                                              (ii)  25% up
                                                    to an
                                                    aggregate
                                                    amount of
                                                    SDR 1,430,000;
                                                    and there-
                                                    after
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated         % of
                            (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
                                              (iii) 10% up
                                                    to an
                                                    aggregate
                                                    amount of
                                                    SDR 1,680,000.
(3)  Refunding of                550,000      Amount due
     Project Prepa-                           pursuant to
     ration Advance                           Section 2.02
(4)  Unallocated
                                 3,210,000
                                __________
          TOTAL
                                15,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
     (b)  in   respect   of   payments   for   expenditures  under
Category  (2)  of  the  table  in  paragraph  1  above,  until the
Association has approved the research programs under Part B of the
Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (i) focus agricultural
research in Kenya on  priority programs; (ii) develop technologies
that  contribute  to   increased   productivity;  (iii)  intensify
producer  participation  in  research  program  formulation;  (iv)
strengthen  linkages  between   research  and  other  agricultural
services; and  (v)  improve  cooperation  with  other agricultural
research institutions.
     The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Kenya Agricultural Research Institute - Headquarters
1.   Restructuring of  KARI  to  enable  it  to undertake research
planning,  management,   budgeting,   supervision,  reporting  and
Page  10
training.
2.   Establishment of  identified  elements  of  KARI's management
information  and  reporting  systems   through  the  provision  of
technical assistance, vehicles, equipment  and the construction of
a headquarters building.
3.   Development  of  KARI's   management  and  research  capacity
through the provision of post-graduate degree training, short-term
courses, workshops, seminars and technical assistance.
Part B:   Research Program Development
1.   Rationalization of the network of  RRCs in Kenya on the basis
of their specific mandates.
2.   Support  for  the  execution  of  adaptive  research programs
covering all of Kenya's agro-climatic zones and the rehabilitation
of all RRCs, through the  provision  of civil works, equipment and
vehicles.
3.   Rehabilitation  of  the  NRCs  and  assistance  to  implement
critical  nationally  coordinated  commodity  and  factor research
programs for  applied  research,  through  the  provision of civil
works, equipment and vehicles.
                            *    *    *
   The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
