Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1849 KE
             (National Agricultural Research Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               KENYA AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
                        Dated May 13, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   13,   1988,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and KENYA AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE (KARI).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Kenya  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifteen
million   five   hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 15,500,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that KARI
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS KARI, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) KARI declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and agricultural
research practices, and shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the  Association and KARI shall
otherwise agree, KARI shall  carry  out  the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program  set  forth  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Project
and to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. KARI shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a) KARI shall,  at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters  relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  KARI shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or  the  performance  by  KARI   of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement.
     Section 2.05. (a)  KARI  shall:  (i)  approve a revised staff
structure  and  establishment;   and   (ii)   by  not  later  than
September 30, 1988, approve a revised scheme of service, and terms
and conditions of service for its staff.
     (b)  For the purposes  of  this  Section  "scheme of service"
means a career stream.
     Section 2.06. KARI  shall,  by  not  later  than December 31,
1989, implement a plan of action, satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association, for the  rationalization  of  the network of RRCs
and NRCs under Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.07.  KARI  shall:  (a)  by  not  later than Septem-
ber  31,  1988,  prepare  a  proposal  for  the  establishment  of
information  systems,  including  monitoring  and  evaluation, and
financial and research management  procedures, satisfactory to the
Borrower, the Association and  the  Donors;  and  (b) by not later
than December 31, 1988, introduce such procedures.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of KARI
     Section 3.01. KARI shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. KARI shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, finan-
cial and agricultural research practices.
     Section 3.03. KARI shall  take  out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  KARI  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate  to  reflect,   in   accordance   with  sound  accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  KARI shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. KARI shall: (a) by not later than July 1, 1989,
submit its opening balance sheet to the Association; and
     (b)  commencing  December   31,   1989,   introduce  adequate
programming, budgeting and accounting procedures, including, inter
alia,  separate  accounts  of  headquarters,  program  and station
expenditures.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Page  4
Association and of KARI  hereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
KARI of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made under  this  Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For KARI:
          Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
          P.O. Box 57811
          Nairobi, Kenya
                                            Telex:
                                               22766
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  KARI,  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Director or such other  person  or  persons  as the Director shall
designate in writing, and  KARI  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  5
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    KENYA AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
                    By /s/ Denis D. Afande
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                            Procurement
          Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits,"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil  works  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $1,000,000 each, may be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive  bidding,   advertised   locally,   in   accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for plant and equipment estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000  each,  may  be  awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $250,000  or  more,  and for plant and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Part A:   KARI Headquarters:
1.   KARI shall carry out the  Project in accordance with the Plan
of Action.
2.   KARI shall  appoint  and  maintain,  until  completion of the
Project, the  positions  of  Director  and  three Deputy Directors
for  Soils  and  Water,   Livestock,  and  Finance,  Planning  and
Administration.
3.   (a)  KARI shall appoint qualified  and experienced persons to
the following positions:
          Deputy    Director    for    Finance,    Planning    and
          Administration;
          Assistant Director, Crops;
          Assistant Director, Soils, Water and Other Resources;
          Assistant Director, RRCs, Extension Liason;
          Assistant Director, Animal Production;
          Assistant Director, Animal Health;
          Directors and Program Coordinators of RRCs and NRCs; and
          Section Head, Manpower Development and Training;
     (b)  KARI shall, by December  31, 1988, appoint qualified and
experienced persons to the following positions:
          Assistant Director, Planning and Manpower Development;
          Assistant Director, Finance and Administration; and
          Section Head, Planning, Programming and Budgeting.
4.   (a)  KARI's Division  of  Planning  and  Manpower Development
shall be  responsible  for  the  establishment  of a comprehensive
research  and  management  information  system  (RMIS),  including
detailed planning,  reporting,  training,  proper  maintenance and
updating of computer hardware and software.
     (b)  KARI shall,  by  September  30,  1988,  design reporting
formats and guidelines for its  research staff and introduce these
by December 31, 1988.
     (c)  Completion of seasonal or  annual reports on progress of
each research program by each  team leader and researcher shall be
a condition for approval of the following year's program.
     (d)  KARI shall, by December 31, 1988, establish a screening,
review and editing committee, to ensure reliability and quality of
material offered for publication by KARI scientists.
Part B:   Research Program Development:
1.   Commodity, factor and disciplinary research programs shall be
coordinated  nationally.  A  coordinated  research  program  shall
consist of a coordinating center located at an NRC and a number of
cooperating centers located at  other  NRCs  or in different RRCs,
depending on the importance  of  the  commodity  or the product in
different regions.
Page  7
2.   Each nationally coordinated program shall: (a) be headed by a
coordinator, a senior  scientist  capable  of providing scientific
leadership, who shall be  in  charge  of a multi-disciplinary team
of  researchers;  and  (b)  have  a  Program  or  Factor Committee
established by June 30, 1988.  Such Committees shall meet at least
once a year, be headed  by  the Program Coordinator and be respon-
sible  for  the  regular  annual  evaluation  of  the  past year's
research  results  and   the   design   of  the  following  year's
experimental program.
3.   KARI shall establish  a  system  of Specialist Committees for
each major commodity  and  factor  program,  to guide research and
link research with related institutions. Each Specialist Committee
shall be led by  the  relevant  Deputy  Director. Members shall be
drawn from institutions  with  relevant  ongoing  work. The Deputy
Director concerned shall periodically convene Specialist Committee
meetings. The  Specialist  Committees  shall  initially review and
approve  long-term  research  programs   and  strategies  for  the
particular commodity, factor  or  discipline,  which  will in turn
provide the basis for detailed annual research programming.
4.   KARI shall establish Committees (Research Center Committees),
at each  RRC  and  NRC,  for  the  purpose  of designing long-term
strategies, reviewing ongoing programs  and  to develop new annual
research programs. These Research Center Committees shall maintain
close contact with the  Commodity  and  Factor Committees in order
that the RRC and  NRC  programs  reflect the aggregate of relevant
national commodity and factor  research  programs,  as well as the
specific needs of the regions in which each Center is located.
5.   Each Research  Center  Committee  shall  be  established, not
later than June 30,  1988,  and shall include district development
and  extension  staff,   farmers   and  representatives  of  local
parastatal and private enterprises working in agriculture or agro-
industry in order  to  facilitate  a  diverse  input into research
programming.
6.   KARI shall, by December 31,  1988, establish a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E)  system,  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower and the
Association, to ensure  that  research  is continuously steered in
the proper direction,  that  resources  are allocated according to
priorities and  are  effectively  utilized.  This  system shall be
implemented by  the  M&E  Section  of  the  Planning  and Manpower
Development  Division.  Evaluation  shall  look  at  questions  of
efficiency, effectiveness and  impact  of  programs  and assist in
future planning. M&E systems shall  be established for: (a) KARI's
entire program; (b) each  nationally coordinated research program;
(c)  each  Research  Center;   and  (d)  the  individual  research
projects.
7.   Training
     (a)  KARI shall,  during  the  first  phase  of NARP, arrange
training at MSc levels for about  300 BSc holders and at PhD level
for about 60 MSc holders.
     (b)  With regard  to  degree  and  in-service  training, KARI
shall: (i) outline its  training  needs,  based  on an analysis of
existing staff and training gaps  in a training plan; (ii) discuss
such plan with the Borrower, the Association and other Donors; and
(iii) by January 31  in  each  year  thereafter, revise and update
such plan following such discussions.
     (c)  KARI shall then  identify  funding  for each category of
training.
8.   Research/Extension Interaction
     The mandates and relationships between KARI and the extension
services  within  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Ministry of
Livestock Development shall be  improved through the participation
Page  8
of different levels  of  extension  staff  in:  (a) formulation of
nationally coordinated research  programs;  and (b) programming of
research at RRCs.  In  addition,  researchers  and extension staff
shall jointly conduct diagnostic surveys and monitor the impact of
new technology, including farmers' reactions, to obtain feedback.
