Page  1
                                                         April  12,  1990
His Excellency Professor
      George Saitoti-
Vice President and Minister
      of Finance
Office of the Vice President
      and Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
    Re:   KENYA:      Credit No. 1849-KE
                      (National Agricultural Research Project)
                      Amendment
Dear Sir:
    We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated May 13, 1988, between
the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the International Development Asso-
ciation (the Association) for the abovementioned Project as amended to date
and to your letter dated March 8, 1990, agreeing to the opening of Special
Accounts for on-going Projects in Kenya, and requesting the Association to
take action in this regard.
    This letter thus proposes the following amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement.
    1.    The following is added as Section 1.02 (i):
          "Special Account" means the account referred to in
          Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
    2.    Section 2.02 (b) is renumbered Section 2.02 (c) and a new Section
    2.02 (b) is added as follows:
          "The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
          open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
          through its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satis-
          factory to the Association, including appropriate pro-
          tection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
          Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
          shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
          Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
    3.    A new Schedule 3 is added as appears in the attachment to this
    letter.
    4.    All provisions of the Development Credit Agreement as amended
    herein shall remain in full force and effect.
    Please confirm your agreement to the amendments by countersigning and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.
                                  Sincerely yours,
                                  Callisto Madavo
                                  Director
                                  Eastern Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Page  2
By
    Authorized Representative
Date:
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the, Special Account
shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
Page  3
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6(a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
