Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4646 - BR
Loan Agreement
(São Paulo Metro Line 4 Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SÃO PAULO
Dated June 25, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4646 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
Page  2
this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Guarantor will guarantee the payment obligations of the Borrower in respect 
of the loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Loan) pursuant to an agreement to be 
entered into between the Guarantor and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), as provided in 
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means the assessment, contained in the 
Borrower’s report dated July 27, 2001, of the environmental and social impacts of the carrying 
out of Part A of the Project, which includes the Environmental Mitigation Plan and a plan for 
resettlement of the population to be displaced because of the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project;
(d)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, set forth in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment, for the mitigation of the environmental impacts of the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(e)
“Line 4” means the SP Metro’s line referred to in Part A of the Project;
(f)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators, set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Page  3
Agreement, to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the carrying out of the Project;
(g)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(h)
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Project Management Report” means any of the reports prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Resettlement Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, set forth in the Environmental 
Impact Assessment, as such plan was updated in November 2001, for the resettlement of the 
population to be displaced because of the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(k)
“SP Metro” means 
Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo - METRÔ
,
the 
Borrower’s subway transportation company;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(m)
“SPMR” means São Paulo metropolitan region, an area comprising the following 
municipalities of the Borrower: 
Arujá, Barueri, Biritiba-Mirim, Cajamar, Caieiras, Carapicuiba, 
Cotia, Diadema, Embú, Embú-Guaçu, Ferraz de Vasconcelos, Francisco Morato, Franco da 
Rocha, Guararema, Guarulhos, Itapevi, Itaquaquecetuba, Itapecerica da Serra, Jandira, 
Juquitiba, Mairiporã, Mauá, Mogi das Cruzes, Osasco, Pirapora do Bom Jesus, Poá, Ribeirão 
Pires, Rio Grande da Serra, Salesópolis, Santa Isabel, Santana do Parnaíba, Santo André, São 
Bernardo do Campo, São Caetano do Sul, São Lourenço da Serra, São Paulo, Suzano, Taboão 
da Serra
 and
 Vargem Grande Paulista
; and
(n)
“STMSP” means 
Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes Metropolitanos
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred nine million Dollars 
($209,000,000).
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
Page  4
and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
Page  5
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through the SP Metro 
under the general coordination of STMSP, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and public 
transportation practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
 The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out the Environmental 
Mitigation Plan and the Resettlement Plan in accordance with the terms thereof.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services  required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until completion of the 
Project, a unit (the PCU) within STMSP with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of assisting 
STMSP in the general coordination of the Project, such unit to be headed at all times by a 
coordinator with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Page  6
Bank, who shall report directly to the Secretary of STMSP. 
Section 3.04.
The Borrower shall cause the SP Metro to  establish, and thereafter 
maintain until the completion of the Project, a unit (the PMU) with responsibilities, structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, for the purposes of assisting the SP Metro in the carrying out of its responsibilities 
under the Project, including those related to procurement of goods, works and consultants’ 
services under the Project, Loan disbursements, Project financial management, and Project 
monitoring, evaluation and reporting, such unit to be headed at all times by a coordinator with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, who shall 
report directly to the President of the SP Metro.  
Section 3.05.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than nine months after the date of this Agreement, publish an invitation, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for prequalification of firms for: (i) the 
operation and maintenance of Line 4 under a concession agreement satisfactory to the Bank; or 
(ii) private sector participation in the carrying out of Part A of the Project under an arrangement 
satisfactory to the Bank, such concession agreement or arrangement to include the supply of train 
sets and acquisition and installation of some system wide facilities for Line 4;
(b)
if interested firms submit prequalification documents, carry out such 
prequalification in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
if applicable, not later than four months after such prequalification is effected, 
invite such prequalified firms to bid for such concession agreement or such other private sector 
participation arrangement, under bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
if applicable, award such concession agreement or such other arrangement in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than one year after the date of this Agreement, establish and maintain an 
entity or commission in charge of regulating the operation, by private sector entities, of urban 
transport services under the Borrower’s jurisdiction in the SPMR, such entity or commission to 
have a structure and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
maintain the existing regional transport coordination commission to serve as a 
forum for discussion of policies for public transportation prices and subsidies in the SPMR;
(c)
adopt, not later than 24 months after the date of this Agreement, a multimodal 
public transportation ticket using smart card technology to ensure integration of inter-municipal 
Page  7
public transportation in the SPMR;
(d)
(i) not later than December 31, 2002, put into effect a consultation mechanism 
with the municipalities in the SPMR, especially the Municipality of São Paulo, for purposes of 
promoting: (i) integration of the different public services, including urban transportation 
services, in the SPMR; and (ii) a joint development of financing mechanisms based on land use 
control (
operações urbanas)
,
both with a view to improve public transportation in the SPMR; 
and (ii) not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year thereafter, furnish to the Bank a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation of such consultation mechanism during the 
previous six-month period; and 
(e)
(i) carry out, every year during the first five years after the start of operations of 
Line 4, a survey to gauge the satisfaction of the users of Line 4 with the services provided, 
particularly in terms of level of service, integration with other means of public transportation, 
and affordability of the transportation, (ii) carry out, promptly before the start of implementation 
and promptly after the completion of Line 4, a survey to obtain information on the changes in 
real estate property prices and rents in the area covered by Line 4, and the effect of Line 4 on the 
construction of new housing and installation of new businesses in such area; (iii) furnish to the 
Bank the results of each such survey.
Section 3.07.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (i) in the month of June of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank a report on the progress in the implementation of the Project 
during the previous twelve-month period, such progress to be measured against the Monitoring 
Indicators, and to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
(including information on the activities of the regulatory entity or commission referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement); and (ii) in the month of July of each year during Project 
implementation, hold a review with the Bank on the progress of the Project and the attainment of 
its objectives (the review to take place in the month of July of 2003 to be the mid-term review), 
such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in subparagraph (i) above and, thereafter, take 
or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank during such reviews as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable 
agreed upon during such reviews.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) The Borrower shall cause the SP Metro to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect SP Metro’s operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
Page  8
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the SP Metro to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year and the records and accounts for the Special Account audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of said 
financial statements reflecting the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
cause the SP Metro to maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
cause the SP Metro to retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports, as the case 
may be, submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the SP Metro to carry out a time-bound action plan 
Page  9
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than one year after 
the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that no later than June 30, 2004 or when 70% of the 
proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn from the Loan Account, whichever occurs earlier, the 
Borrower has not furnished to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has 
obtained a contribution of at least $150,000,000 from private sector investors for the carrying out 
of Part A of the Project, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.  It is agreed that such event 
shall not be considered an event of suspension if the Borrower shall demonstrate, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank, that the Borrower: (a) has made its best efforts to obtain such 
contribution, but it did not succeed for reasons beyond the control of the Borrower; and (b) has 
the funds required to offset the Project financing gap resulting from such event.
ARTICLE VI
Page  10
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Guarantee Agreement has been entered into between the Guarantor and the 
Bank, and the Guarantor has delivered to the Bank a letter, satisfactory to the Bank, confirming 
the provision of financial and economic data to the Bank in accordance with Section 9.02 of the 
General Conditions, and informing the Bank of any liens on public assets, for purposes of 
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions;
(b)
the Resettlement Plan is being carried out in accordance with the terms thereof;
(c)
the PCU and the PMU have been established, as provided in Sections 3.03 and 
3.04 of this Agreement, respectively; and
(d)
the Environmental Impact Assessment has been approved and the corresponding 
license for the carrying out of Part A of the Project has been issued by the Borrower’s 
environmental protection agency.
Section 6.02.
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s 
Central Bank.
Section 6.03.
The date September 25, 2002, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  11
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado dos
  Negócios da Fazenda
Avenida Rangel Pestana 300 - 5º andar
01017-000 São Paulo, S.P.
Brasil
Facsimile: (55-11-31076942)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brasil
Facsimile: (55-61-2254022)
Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes Metropolitanos
Av. Paulista, 402 - 15º andar
01030-903 São Paulo, S.P.
Brasil
Facsimile: (55-11-32849054)
Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo-METRÔ
Rua Augusta, 1626
01304-902 Sao Paulo, S.P.
Facsimile: (55-11-33715228)
Page  12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Armitage
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF SÃO PAULO
By /s/ Geraldo José Rodrigues Alckmin Filho
Authorized Representative
Page  13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated 
  (Expressed in
Dollars)
% of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and works 
 under the contract or 
contracts referred to in Section 
I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement
201,910,000
50%
(2)
Consultants’ services 
5,000,000
50%
(3)
Front-end fee
2,090,000
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
             TOTAL
209,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be made in respect of 
expenditures under Category (2) in the table in paragraph 1 above on account of payments made 
within one year before the date of this Agreement. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
Page  14
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into said Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received:  (i) the first Project Management Report; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis 
of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
Page  15
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
Page  16
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
Page  17
Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $30,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality and long-term sustainability 
of urban transport in the SPMR by interconnecting the existing subway, commuter rail and bus 
networks through the construction of Line 4; (b) to improve the accessibility to employment 
centers and health and education facilities of the low-income population of the areas to be served 
by Line 4; and (c) to seek private sector participation in the development of Line 4.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment
Construction of, provision of equipment for, and operation and maintenance of, the line 
of the SP Metro which will link the SP Metro’s Vila Sonia yard facility to the SP Metro’s Luz 
station (Line 4), consisting of about 12,800 meters of double underground track, 5 stations and 4 
station shells, acquisition and installation of system-wide facilities (including fixed installations 
for electrification), and acquisition and operation of 16 train sets.
Part B
: Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for: (1) the management oversight and supervision of 
the carrying out of Part A of the Project;  (2) the carrying out of a financial management and cost 
recovery review (including recommendations on tariff structure) of the SP Metro operations; and 
(3) for a follow-up project finance study on alternatives for private sector participation in the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project .
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Page  18
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2007
through March 15, 2017
10,450,000
____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works for the construction of the double underground track, five stations and 
four station shells, and fixed installations for electrification for Line 4 shall be procured on the 
basis of international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and II of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Guidelines), under no more than three lump-sum turnkey contracts. The 
following provisions shall also apply to the procurement of such contract or contracts:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Page  19
Such contract or contracts shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set 
forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the 
Guidelines, with the modifications that may be required.
(d)
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, 
regarding prior review of procurement decisions by the Bank, and the provision in paragraph 5 of 
said Appendix 1, regarding translation of contract awarded to a local bidder, shall apply to the 
procurement of such contract or contracts.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants 
Consultants’ services  shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction, Section II, Section IV, paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)), 3 and 5 of Appendix 1, and Appendix 2 of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
SCHEDULE 5
Monitoring Indicators
By End of the Calendar Year
2001
(base
)
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
Project Development 
Objectives
Percentage of Line 4 stations 
integrated with bus lines 
(integration-related 
objective)
0
0
0
0
0
90
SP Metro’s share of 
urban transport 
motorized trips (%) 
(congestion-related 
objective)
18
19
19
19
19
23
Generalized cost of travel 
(travel time plus fare plus 
reliability) between Vila 
Sonia and Luz stations in 
minutes (accessibility of 
low-income user related 
objective)
89
89
89
89
89
51
Ratio between SP Metro’s 
operating costs (without 
.98
<1
<1
Page  20
depreciation and cost of 
capital) and operating 
revenues
Project Outputs
Physical Implementation
% of infrastructure 
completed 
0
2
25
25
25
23
% of stations completed 
0
2
25
25
25
23
% of systems completed
0
0
0
28
44
28
% of rolling stock delivery 
completed 
0
0
0
50
50
Institutional Development
Financial management and 
cost recovery review under 
Part B (2) of the Project
Study 
completed
Recommenda
tions 
implemented
Follow-up study on private 
sector participation, under 
Part B (3) of the Project
Study 
completed
