                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001735



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (COFN-04520 IBRD-46460 IBRD-75360)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$304.00 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                       FOR

                SÃO PAULO METRO LINE 4 (PHASE 1) PROJECT



                 FINAL DRAFT FOR COMMENTS – June 1, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 31. 2012)

                    Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                             R$1 = US$0.49
                            US$1.00 = R$2.02

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1- December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ATC     Automatic Train Control
BUI     Single Integrated Fare Ticket
        (Bilhete Único Integrado)
CBTU    Brazilian Urban Train Company
        (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
CDTI    Integrated Transport Coordination Commission
        (Comité Diretor de Transporte Integrado)
CEPAC   Certificates of Additional Construction Potential
        (Certificado de Potencial Adicional de Construção)
CPTM    São Paulo Metropolitan Train Company
        (Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos)
CVA     Consórcio Via Amarela, the construction consortium selected for Line 4
CVQ     Consórcio Via Quatro, the operating concessionaire selected for Line 4
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
IERR    Internal Economic Rate of Return
METRO   São Paulo Metro Company (Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo).
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PITU    Integrated Urban Transport Plan
        (Plano Integrado de Transporte Urbano)
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPP     Public-Private Partnership
SPMR    São Paulo Metropolitan Region
SSP     State of São Paulo
STMSP   São Paulo State Secretariat for Metropolitan Transport
        (Secretaria de Transportes Metropolitanos Região Metropolitana de São
        Paulo)

                        Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
                      Country Director: Deborah L. Wetzel
                       Sector Manager: Aurelio Menendez
                  Project Team Leader: Georges Darido
                     ICR Team Leader: Georges Darido


                                      i
                                                BRAZIL
                                      São Paulo Metro Line 4 Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Profile

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  MAPS




                                                             ii
A. Basic Information
                                                                             São Paulo Metro Line 4
Country:                Brazil                     Project Name:
                                                                             Project
                                                                             COFN-04520,IBRD-
Project ID:             P051696                    L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                             46460,IBRD-75360
ICR Date:               06/01/2012                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                        Borrower:                 STATE OF SÃO PAULO
Original Total
                        USD 209.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 304.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 304.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/11/2001     Effectiveness:              09/05/2002           09/05/2002
Appraisal:              07/23/2001     Restructuring(s):                                06/12/2008
                                                                   09/05/2004
Approval:               01/22/2002     Mid-term Review:                                 02/16/2005

                                       Closing:                    06/30/2007           03/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:                   Moderately Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:



                                                  iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                             No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                         Quality of Supervision
                             No                                             None
(Yes/No):                                            (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                        Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                           100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                    40
Pollution management and environmental health                             20
Urban services and housing for the poor                                   40

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Hasan A. Tuluy                        David de Ferranti
Country Director:            Deborah L. Wetzel                     Vinod Thomas
Sector Director/Manager:     Aurelio Menendez                      Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:         Georges Bianco Darido                 Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Team Leader:             Georges Bianco Darido
                             Georges Bianco Darido / Fabio
ICR Primary Author:
                             Hirschhorn


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to improve the quality and long-term sustainability of urban
transport in the São Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR) by interconnecting the existing subway,
commuter rail and bus networks through the construction of São Paulo Metro Company
(METRO)'s Line 4. Subsidiary objectives are: i) to improve the accessibility of the low-income
population who are the main users of the São Paulo’s Metro to employment centers and health
and education facilities; and ii) to seek private sector participation in the development of Line 4.


                                                   iv
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                  Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                   Values (from                        Achieved at
         Indicator               Baseline Value                       Revised
                                                     approval                         Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                   documents)                         Target Years
Percentage of Line 4 stations
                                       0%                90%            100%               100%
    integrated with bus lines
      Metro share of urban
                                       16%               23%           17.5%               19.3%
transport motorized trips (%)
   Generalized cost of travel
   (travel time plus fare plus
    reliability) between Vila
                                       104*               51             82                 73
   Sonia and Luz in minutes
  (*baseline value revised in
         2008 from 89)
    Metro’s working ratio of
  operating costs divided by
       operating revenues
                                       0.98               <1             <1                 0.79
(excluding depreciation, cost
      of capital and Line 4
           operations)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                  Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                   Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator              Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                                     approval                         Completion or
                                                                     Values
                                                   documents)                         Target Years
   Percentage of
   infrastructure                  0                     100%                              100%
     completed
   Percentage of
stations completed
                                   0                     100%                              100%
   Percentage of
   system works                    0                     100%                              100%
     completed
   Percentage of
    rolling stock                  0                     100%                              100%
      delivered
      Financial                                                                     Study was concluded
 management and
                                                  Recommendations                           and
   cost recovery
   review of the                                    Implemented                       recommendations
        Metro                                                                        were implemented.
 Follow-up study
 on private sector                                Study Completed                   Study was concluded.
    participation




                                                     v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                       Actual Disbursements
 No.                            DO                        IP
         Archived                                                          (USD millions)
  1     05/08/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     05/08/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     10/10/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
  4     11/22/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
  5     02/21/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
  6     04/04/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
  7     07/28/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
  8     08/28/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
  9     10/10/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.09
 10     12/09/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.62
 11     03/29/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  22.62
 12     08/12/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  43.82
 13     11/09/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  45.52
 14     04/07/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  45.52
 15     07/14/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  51.36
 16     04/18/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  74.26
 17     08/10/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  88.58
 18     11/15/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 109.38
 19     05/08/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 122.68
 20     09/11/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 137.18
 21     03/21/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 189.76
 22     09/19/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 205.88
 23     04/08/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 227.80
 24     11/14/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 242.20
 25     04/14/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 276.10
 26     12/11/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 303.76


H. Restructuring (if any)
First closing date extension was approved in March 2007. An Additional financing, second
closing date extension, and revised target values for indicators approved in April 2008.




                                             vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
       1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


       1.1 Context at Appraisal

       1.1.1 Brazil’s Economy: By 2001, when the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
       finalized, Brazil’s economy had taken a positive turn thanks to several market-friendly
       and macroeconomic reforms, and political stability. The results suggested Brazil would
       enter into a sustained growth path. The main outcomes were (see also Table 1):
               (a) Inflation had been curbed and lowered to less than one digit. In 1986, inflation
               was 146% per year, while in 1997 it was 6.9%. Following the signing of the
               IBRD loan in 2002, annual inflation peaked in 2003 (14.7%) and then fluctuated
               between 4% and 6% in the following years.
               (b) The exchange rate R$ per US$ observed significant fluctuations that affected
               the life of the project. It was below 2 in June 2000, much lower than by the time
               the loan agreement with the Bank was signed (2.7 in June 2002) and then peaked
               in 2004 (above 3 in June that year), remaining high after that.
               (c) Economic growth was positive, but still low. After the “lost decade? of the
               1980s, Brazil’s economy was growing at positive but low rates until 2004 when a
               stronger growth trend started and persisted until the global crisis in 2008/2009.
               (d) Foreign Direct Investment flows were increasing by the end of the 1990s as
               the country was seen as one of the emerging economies with a brighter future,
               becoming part of the BRIC group. These investments decreased, however,
               between 2002 and 2006, growing significantly from then on.

       Table 1. Key Economic Indicators for Brazil
       Sources: World Bank’s World Development Indicators; Brazilian Central Bank; OECD.

Item/Year                        2000     2001     2002    2003    2004        2005    2006     2007     2008     2009     2010    2011

Inflation Consumer Price
(annual %)                        7.04     6.84     8.45   14.71       6.60     6.87    4.18     3.64     5.68     4.89     5.04    6.64
GDP growth (annual %)             4.29     1.32     2.61    1.27       5.72     2.90    3.72     6.10     5.20    -0.30     7.50    2.70

Foreign Direct Investment Net
(BoP) Current US$ (millions)    30,497   24,714   14,108   9,894   8,694      12,549   9,420   27,518   24,601   36,033   36,919

Exchange rate R$ per dollar
(by June of each year) (from
June 1st to June 1st)            1.808    2.375    2.713   2.882   3.128       2.413   2.248    1.949    1.648    2.011    1.836   1.618

Primary Fiscal Balance (% of
GDP)                               3.5      3.7     3.91    4.25       4.59     4.83    4.32     -1.9     -1.2     -3.5


       1.1.2 Economy and Urban Transport in the São Paulo Metropolitan Region
       (SPMR): With 8050 sq. km and 16.8 million inhabitants spread irregularly over 39
       individual municipalities, the SPMR generated over 20% of Brazil’s GDP by the time of
       appraisal. The most important economic region in the country has observed a shift of
       mature industries from the city to smaller urban centers with the substitution of

                                                                   1
manufacturing by service activities in the last 20 years. However, the loss of traditional
manufacturing jobs in the eastern districts of the city has not been compensated by new
business activities in these areas. In addition, São Paulo’s extremities in the North and
South attracted new residents, but have struggled to generate stable employment growth.

The factors mentioned above resulted in uneven wealth distribution and lack of access to
job opportunities, in addition to increased traffic congestion and atmospheric pollution.
Despite an existing 270 km rail network, the lack of integration between the Metro and
the suburban trains discouraged more rail trips in favor of buses and the automobile,
thereby creating heavy congestion during peak hours and significantly increasing travel
times. In sum, (i) shortage of capacity at peak hours, (ii) long work journeys (2.5
hours/day) from the Metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, with often more than
two modal transfers; and, (iii) high fares were the main problems faced by the urban poor
– the main users of public transport in the SPMR.

1.1.3 Rationale for the Project: The project rationale was (i) the significant need for
enhancing public transport infrastructure and services, (ii) the significant financing
constraints that limited infrastructure investments (which required the phasing of this
project); and (iii) a general interest in benefiting from private sector involvement in
infrastructure financing. Moreover, the project responded to the Bank's urban transport
strategy in Latin America and for the SPMR that was anchored in improvements to public
transport complemented by four strategic pillars: a) to establish a regional transport
coordination commission (RTCC) with the municipalities, operators and users, which has
already occurred; b) to develop and update on a periodic basis an integrated land use,
urban transport and air quality strategy; c) to introduce financing mechanisms which will
guarantee the long-term sustainability of the urban transport systems; and d) to promote
progressive private sector participation in the investment and operations management of
those systems.

Line 4 project represented a priority undertaking for the State of São Paulo (SSP) within
the Integrated Urban Transport Plan (Plano Integrado de Transporte Urbano – PITU) for
the SPMR. As designed, the new underground Line 4 would (i) serve as a "bridge"
between METRO's Line 5 and Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos (CPTM)
western commuter lines to the rest of the Metro network, (ii) interconnect with all three
existing Metro lines to provide a grid flexibility to the Metro network which does not
exist with the present radial configuration, and (iii) interconnect two CPTM commuter
rail lines.

The Line 4 project also consolidated and deepened previous efforts from the World Bank,
initiated under the São Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3457-
BR) and the Barra Funda-Roosevelt project (Ln. 4312-BR), which assisted respectively
in the decentralization of the federally-owned Brazilian Urban Train Company
(Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos – CBTU) to the State to allow for more
effective modal and tariff integration, and in connecting the two suburban rail systems.
The project was designed as a vehicle to promote greater private sector participation in
the investments and operation of urban rail systems, a catalyst for physical and tariff

                                            2
integration in the SPMR and to provide more credibility and ensure accountability in the
preparation and bidding process of Line 4. These roles were aligned with the then current
Bank's assistance strategy to Brazil (approved by the Board on March 30, 2000).

The Line 4 project included an operating concession with private financing, which is
considered the first urban rail PPP in Brazil and one of the first in the world. It also
incorporated a turnkey contract and achieved significant additions of much-needed
infrastructure capacity in a challenging economic and practice environment.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project objectives were: (a) to improve the quality and long-term sustainability of
urban transport in the SPMR by interconnecting the existing subway, commuter rail and
bus networks through the construction of Line 4; (b) to improve the accessibility of the
low-income population of the areas served by Line 4 to employment centers and health
and education facilities; and (c) to seek private sector participation in the development of
Line 4.

The original performance indicators were:
• 90% of the stations of Line 4 integrated with buses;
• Average generalized travel costs considering travel times, fares, and reliability for
   users between Vila Sonia and Luz would be reduced from 89 to 51 (quantified in
   minutes using a value of time methodology, a 42% reduction) with Line 4 in
   operations compared to without;
• Higher mode share (23%) of Metro in total urban transport motorized trips in the
   SPMR reflecting increase Metro ridership and reduced bus and automobile trips in the
   Line 4 corridor;
• METRO will not require an operating subsidy for its operation as represented by its
   working ratio.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
There were no changes to the PDOs. The target values or dates for some indicators were
changed in conjunction with the additional financing approved in 2008 for Phase 1
mainly to reflect the realities of the implementation (including the delays described
further in Section 2.2) and the following considerations:
• Increasing the target percentage of Line 4 Phase 1 stations integrated with buses to
    100% reflecting a greater coordination in the region between city and state.
• Average generalized travel costs between Vila Sonia and Luz would be reduced from
    104 to 82 minutes with Line 4 Phase 1 in operations (a 21% reduction). The higher
    value for the baseline reflects the growing traffic congestion between this origin and
    destination during the more than 3-year delay to complete Phase 1. The revised target
    value also reflects higher than expected growth in traffic and an updated methodology
    for value of time.
• A revised methodology to calculate the base mode share for Metro in 2001 also
    required the target mode share to be adjusted to 17.5% in 2010;


                                             3
•   Clarifying that METRO’s working ratio (operating costs over operating revenues) is
    to remain less than one, excluding depreciation, cost of capital and the operations of
    Line 4.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The expected beneficiaries during appraisal were the residents of the SPMR, but
particularly low-income households (earning up to four minimum salaries) who are major
users of public transport. Being a link between suburban railway and the Metro network,
the Line 4 catchment area is not limited to the neighborhoods directly served by its
stations and attracts a significant number of transit users. Line 4 is located in the
southwestern quadrant of the SPMR, but trip origins are not restricted to this area: as an
example, 20% of the trips on Line 4 are originated in the peripheral districts of the
eastern part of the SPMR (which are amongst the poorest areas in the SPMR), thanks to
the good connection between the rail network and Line 4. In this sense, Line 4 was to
increase the number of jobs accessible from the periphery, as well as health and
education centers. Moreover, it also improved the travel conditions of public transport
users.

With the use of a turnkey and concession contracts to the private sector, the SSP was also
expected to benefit by not assuming construction cost escalation and operating subsidies
while expanding its Metro system (operated by the METRO). The construction of the
new underground Line 4 would also divert a substantial number of commuters from road-
based mode, thereby reducing vehicle-kilometers and congestion in the area of influence
of the line, and resulting in positive economic and environmental impacts in the long-run.
METRO was also expected to be a beneficiary because the project piloted several
innovations (a turnkey contract and private operating concession in a type of “Build-
Operate-Transfer? arrangement) to help METRO contain cost growth and develop the
needed network.

1.5 Original Components
At the time of loan approval in 2002, São Paulo Metro Line 4 project already envisaged a
Phase 2 since the SSP did not have the debt capacity required by the Federative Republic
of Brazil (guarantor) to complete all the 11 stations planned. As such, the project was
divided in two phases: Phase 1 in which at least five stations would be fully completed,
and Phase 2 in which the remaining stations would be finalized and a new station would
be built. The following components were approved as the Line 4 (Phase 1) Project:

Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment
Construction of, provision of equipment for, and operation and maintenance of, the line
of the SP Metro which will link the SP Metro’s Vila Sonia yard facility to the SP Metro’s
Luz station (Line 4), consisting of about 12,800 meters of double underground track, 5
stations and 4 station shells, acquisition and installation of system-wide facilities
(including fixed installations for electrification), and acquisition and operation of 16 train
sets.

Part B: Technical Assistance

                                              4
Provision of technical assistance for: (1) the management oversight and supervision of
the carrying out of Part A of the Project; (2) the carrying out of a financial management
and cost recovery review (including recommendations on tariff structure) of the SP Metro
operations; and (3) for a follow-up project finance study on alternatives for private sector
participation in the carrying out of Part A of the Project.

Phase 1 of the project was co-financed by the Japanese Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC) in the same amount as the Bank’s financing (US$209m), by the State
of São Paulo (US$332m) and by a private consortium (US$183m) who in 2006 was
competitively awarded the concession to operate the system for 30 years in exchange for
the provision of rolling stock and systems.

1.6 Revised Components
The following changes consistent with the objectives of the project and scope of Part A
and B of the loan were made between approval in 2002 and project restructurings in 2007
and 2008:
• Inclusion of a sixth station, Faria Lima, in Phase 1;
• Change in the construction method from Shields to NATM in parts of Lot 2 (was
    done by the project with all risks assumed by the turnkey contractors);
• Delivery of 14 train sets instead of 16 (was done by the operating concessionaire);
• Inclusion of the executive project (advanced engineering design) for supply and
    implementation of platform door system (PSD) for the Phase 1 and Phase 2 stations;
• Inclusion of the executive project for the production, supply and implementation of
    data transmission system (STD);
• Inclusion of the executive project for the production, supply and implementation of
    the passenger fare collection system (SCAP) Line 4, phases 1 and 2, including Vila
    Sonia yard;
• Inclusion of the executive project for the supply and implementation of moving
    walkways.

1.7 Other significant changes
A centerpiece of this project was the turnkey contract for civil works and electrification,
financed by the Bank and JBIC loans, as well as by the SSP. After the effectiveness of
the turnkey contract, two trends in the Brazilian economy occurred and significantly
affected the initial financial equilibrium of the project: the R$ started to unexpectedly
appreciate in relation to the US$ and the inflation rate held steady with very small growth.
This affected all of the annual price readjustment formulas in the turnkey contract and led
the SSP to request additional financing to cover a portion of the financing gap associated
with the devaluation of the US$ in relation to the Brazilian currency. In April 2008 the
Bank approved an additional loan (IBRD-75360) of US$95.0 million to compensate for
the effect of the US$ devaluation and of inflation over the turnkey contract costs and the
respective annual price readjustment clause. The same co-financing ratio for the Bank
and JBIC was maintained for the additional financing.

The closing date of the original loan was extended two times. The first extension was
from June 30, 2007 to June 30, 2009 occurred in March 2007. A second extension to

                                             5
June 30, 2010 occurred in conjunction with the approval of the additional loan. The
original loan was closed and fully disbursed by June 30, 2010. In May 2010, the Bank
approved a 9-month extension of the closing date of the additional financing loan from
June 30, 2010 to March 31, 2011 to allow for the completion of civil works and systems
for full operations and full disbursement of funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry:
The Project quality at entry was satisfactory for the following reasons:

a) The Project and PDO were solidly conceived and structured given what was known at
appraisal. The first PDO was designed to be achieved by financing the construction of
Line 4 of the São Paulo Metro which will ultimately link the Vila Sonia suburb with the
Luz station (Phases 1 and 2) with a 12.8 km underground line and at least five stations for
Phase 1. The second PDO would be achieved by promoting modal and fare integration
between buses, subway and rail, in such a way as to minimize the overall generalized cost
of travel (including fare, travel time, and reliability) particularly to the low income users
of the system from peripheral areas like Embu and Taboão da Serra. The third PDO
would be met through either a concession agreement or other private sector participation
arrangement to obtain at least 20% of the cost of the project.

b) The Line 4 project consolidated and deepened previous efforts from the World Bank,
initiated under the São Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3457-
BR) and the Barra Funda-Roosevelt project (Ln. 4312-BR), which assisted respectively
in the decentralization of the federally-owned CBTU to the State to allow for more
effective modal and tariff integration, and in connecting the two suburban rail systems.
The Bank’s participation (including IBRD and IFC) promoted a wider private sector
participation in the investments and operation of urban rail systems, physical and tariff
integration in the SPMR and as provided more credibility and ensured accountability in
the preparation and bidding process of Line 4.

c) Moreover, the project was fully aligned with the Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil
at the time of preparation (approved by the Board on March 30, 2000). The five pillars
that support the overall poverty reduction strategy of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) were: (a) targeted interventions to reduce poverty, among others through the
provision of urban services to the poor, (b) sustainable fiscal adjustment, among others
through reform of public enterprises, (c) renewed growth, among others through private
sector participation in infrastructure provision, (d) improved government effectiveness,
and (e) effective environmental management. The project constituted an important
element to allow the program to meet the CAS objectives (especially in terms of targeted
provision of services to the poor, fiscal adjustment and economic growth).

d) The project incorporated in its design the lessons identified in previous urban transport
and urban projects around the world: the need to include institutional strengthening in all
levels of government involved with urban transport, ensure adequate and timely

                                             6
counterpart funds, and measures to deal with different factors (such as lack of familiarity
with Bank procedures, overoptimistic scheduling at appraisal, lack of final engineering
designs at appraisal, changes in political commitment) that may lead to slow project
implementation.

e) The creation of a Secretariat for Metropolitan Transport indicated the importance
attached to the provision and maintenance of an efficient Metro and suburban rail
(CPTM) system by the SSP. Metro Line 4 project was considered a priority by the State
administration as soon as the Federal Government authorized the resumption of
borrowing from the Bank.

f) At project preparation the overall risk rating was moderate. A range of risks were
evaluated during project preparation and appropriate mitigation measures were
considered. Among the most relevant risks: cost increases, delays in procurement and
resettlement, limited private sector interest in the concession, and tariffs too high for low-
income users after private sector participation. Intrinsic risks such as construction
accidents were not itemized in the original PAD, but are typically mitigated as part of the
design and implementation of civil works. While currency risk was not explicitly
considered among the causes of potential cost increases (the impacts of which are
described in 2.2b below), this risk could not have been credibly forecast at preparation.

2.2 Implementation
International experience shows that due to the high and intrinsic complexity of major
infrastructure projects such as Line 4, it is not uncommon to observe unforeseen
implementation problems and delays. The integration between public and private sectors
in these transactions also brings additional complexity to the design and implementation
of these operations. Line 4 Phase 1 was completed and fully operational by September
2011, over 3 years later than the estimated completion date at appraisal in 2001 for the
reasons described below. As described in Annex 2, all outputs were substantially
delivered with very few changes.

a) Delays: An initial 14-month implementation delay was caused by a combination of
procurement litigation and a delay in expropriation due to a protracted strike of the
official evaluators of property values. The unavailability of counterpart funds in the first
year may have also delayed implementation. As it is common for these kinds of projects
in Brazil, the awarding of the civil works turnkey contract was protested in the court by
joint-ventures that were initially pre-qualified and subsequently eliminated in the second
review. Finally, the project schedule and disbursement were also delayed by more than
one year following a fatal construction accident in 2007 (described further below) as
authorities had to show that designs and civil works were safe and redesign parts of the
Pinheiros station.

b) Devaluation of the Dollar: The project included two main contracts both designated in
Brazilian Reais: (a) a turnkey contract for the provision of civil works and electrification
for the 12.8 km of Metro line which is financed by the Bank, JBIC and State; and (b) a
concession to operate the system for 30 years, in exchange for the provision of the rolling

                                              7
stock and systems, financed mainly by the private sector and the State. The turnkey
contract, accounting for about 80% of total project cost, was signed in August 2003,
when the exchange rate was R$2.993 per US$. As of March 2007, the exchange rate had
dropped below R$2.00. The continuous devaluation of the US Dollar vis-à-vis the
Brazilian Real during project implementation put a major strain on counterpart funds.
This coupled with the annual price readjustment formulas in the turnkey contract resulted
in the need for the withdrawal applications submitted to the Bank and JBIC to use a much
larger amount of dollars to cover the costs of the R$ than foreseen. An additional loan for
US$95 million was approved by the Bank in April 2008 to help cover this financing gap
to complete Phase 1.

c) Capital Cost Increase: As detailed in Annex 1, the variation between the total public
sector contribution in 2003 and 2012 is US$ 639.5 million, an increase of 72%. This
variation was primarily due to: (1) changes in the scope or schedule of the project
including amendments and change in construction methods (about 47% or US$ 302.5
million), (2) variation in the exchange rate (about 28% or US$ 175.27 million) given that
the financing was in US Dollars while main contracts were in Brazilian Reais, and (3)
increase in prices due to the annual readjustment formula (inflation) in the contracts
(about 25% or US$ 161.79 million).

d) Construction Accident: On January 12, 2007 a construction accident involving the
collapse of the shaft at the future Pinheiros station caused seven fatalities. The people
killed were passengers in one informal minivan that was wrongly in the area, one truck
driver and one pedestrian walking on a nearby street. No construction workers were
killed or hurt. Several homes and other structures were affected. Six homes were
demolished shortly after the accident and others were evacuated by Civil Defense
authorities. The Bank monitored the review of the construction safety standards with
recommendations for their enhancement and better enforcement. The causes of the
accident have been thoroughly investigated by the relevant authorities and a report was
produced by the renowned São Paulo Technological Research Institute (Instituto de
Pesquisas Tecnológicas - IPT). The investigation concluded that a number of factors
contributed to the accident including weaknesses in project engineering, civil works
implementation (particularly supervision of tunnel settlement), and overall risk
management. Even though it was preventable, the accident caused an unforeseeable delay
in the project, as works had to be stopped. The Bank also monitored and documented the
successful mitigation of all social and environmental impacts of the accident. In the
immediate aftermath, all the evacuated families were accommodated at five-star hotels at
the expense of the construction consortium, Consórcio Via Amarela (CVA). The Bank
requested the Borrower to submit detailed monthly reports which confirmed that all
required compensation and pending cases were being resolved appropriately. Settlement
negotiations involved the claimants, CVA, Unibanco – AIG and METRO, with oversight
by São Paulo Public Defender and the State Justice Department which ratified all
decisions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization



                                            8
2.3.1 M&E Design: The project was monitored through an appropriate set of indicators
adopted by the Borrower to reflect the achievements of the PDOs (see Section F of
Datasheet). Two indicators (percentage of integrated stations, the share of Metro in urban
transport motorized trips) address the first part of the PDO, which is related to the
integration and quality of services in the region. The third indicator (generalized cost of
travel in minutes) addresses the second PDO related to the accessibility of low-income
population from areas served by Line 4 to employment centers and health and education
centers since a majority of these trips are made by low income people (those earning less
than the equivalent of 4 minimum salaries). In addition, the project had the objective of
seeking private sector participation in the development of Line 4, which was achieved
through a concession agreement signed with CVA. Regarding the M&E of outputs, four
indicators were defined for Part A (% of infrastructure completed, percentage of stations
completed, percentage of systems works completed, and percentage of rolling stocks
delivered). Two indicators were defined to monitor the institutional development
promoted by the project - Part B (financial management and cost recovery review of the
Metro, and follow up study on private sector participation).

2.3.2 M&E Implementation and Utilization: The Project team appropriately used the
outcome and output indicators to supervise the progress of the objectives and
implementation. As described in Section 1.3, some of the original targets for the
outcome indicators were revised in 2008 to reflect the changing conditions of the project.
Annual or semi-annual monitoring reports included useful updates on institutional
objectives such as integrated modal tariffs (Bilhete Único Integrado, BUI), creation and
maintenance of a regulatory commission, and environmental management programs. The
ISRs were timely and usually included an Aide Memoire as an attachment. In the first
few years of the project, the ISRs and monitoring reports included updates on two output
indicators related Part B of the loan agreement: “Financial management and cost recovery
review? and “follow-up study on private sector participation? that were completed and
implemented.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Procurement: The procurement component was well designed and supervised. The
implementing agency had good procurement capacity, as assessed during preparation,
and was knowledgeable of Bank procurement procedures.

2.4.2 Financial Management: Financial management was in compliance with Bank
procedures. Both the State and METRO had previous experience with Bank loans and
were able to handle all aspects related to the financial management of the project
including accounting, disbursement and auditing functions. Auditing was carried out
annually by independent consultants selected on a competitive basis according to Bank
procurement guidelines. Financial management reporting and auditing have been
satisfactory.

2.4.3 Environmental: The Project was rated Category A (Full Assessment) and triggered
the Environmental Assessment and Involuntary Resettlement policies of the Bank. The

                                            9
project was expected to have a net beneficial impact on society and the environment. The
new subway link would help relieve congestion in major transport corridors and central
areas, resulting in lower emission of pollutants per vehicle-kilometer. Junction
improvements and pedestrian overpasses would improve safety and quality of life. The
Line 4 Phase 1 Project had a full environmental assessment, which was submitted by the
Board prior to its approval. The project has been successful in preventing or mitigating
direct environmental and social impacts. The procedures and supervision given to the
project were adequate. The environmental impacts of the accident at Pinheiros station
during the implementation of Phase 1 were minor. Subsequent to this accident and as a
prerequisite for the Additional Financing (loan 7536-BR), the Bank required a detailed
social assessment, periodic monitoring of those affected by the accident, and an
environmental assessment of the accident.

2.4.4 Social: The Line 4 project included a significant amount of resettlement that was
conducted by METRO in a manner consistent with the agreed plan and Bank policy. As
is common for underground civil works, minor damage to structures along the alignment
were recorded during implementation and appropriately repaired or compensated by the
turnkey contractor under the supervision of METRO. Other direct impacts of the project
include increasing the accessibility of low-income population to public transport and to
employment centers, health, education, and leisure facilities. The main beneficiaries of
Line 4 are the populations of Embu, Taboão da Serra, Cotia, Embu Guaçu, Itapecerica da
Serra, Juquitiba, São Lourenço e Vargem Grande Paulista whose accessibility to the
Central Business District (CBD) and other areas of employment, health and education
facilities was greatly enhanced. At least 50% of Metro users are considered low income
and live in the suburbs of the greater SPMR.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The operating concessionaire CVQ is successfully operating Line 4 with generally
smooth relationship with both METRO and SSP. Both public and private sector parties
are generally living up to their contractual obligations. User satisfaction with Line 4 is
high and there are some elements of service that are particularly note-worthy, such as
attendants at stations to orient passengers and assist disabled travelers.

A Bank loan for US$130 million was approved in 2010 for Line 4 Phase 2 which
includes the civil works and systems to complete the 12.8 km subway with 11 stations.
This loan was matched by financing from JBIC for an amount of US$130 million. The
State and private sector concessionaire are to provide counterpart funds. Besides the
financing of infrastructure and equipment for the additional stations, Phase 2 is also
composed of a technical assistance component for: (i) the management oversight and
supervision of the carrying out of the works for the construction of the stations; and (ii) the
carrying out of specific studies or assessments required during the execution the Project.
The Bank also required an interface agreement for the implementation of Phase 2 while
Phase 1 is in operations between METRO, the State’s regulating commission, and the
private operating concessionaire. The recently signed civil works contracts of Phase 2 also
include a provision to abide by this agreement.



                                              10
The latest step in the evolution of the engagement between the State of São Paulo and the
World Bank involving urban public transport enhancement, in particular regarding an
increased participation of the private sector in the investment and operations management
of transport systems, is the April 2012 signing of a Fee Based Service contract. Through
this agreement the Bank will support the State of São Paulo in developing and
implementing an evaluation framework for private sector proposals for new infrastructure
projects as well as building the SSP's capacity in PPPs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The PDOs remained relevant throughout the life of the two loans and did not require any
changes in response to changing government priorities or external conditions. The
objectives also stayed relevant in light of Bank’s priorities regarding Brazil. For example,
the objective of improving quality of urban transport by developing an integrated mass
transport system was in line with the 2004-2007 CAS (Report no. 36116) priority of
“Investing in growth, including enhanced emphasis on improving competitiveness and
investing in infrastructure.? A high-quality integrated transit system is an investment in
infrastructure that promotes urban competitiveness and efficiency by requiring fewer
resources to move passengers, hence also promoting growth. The PDOs are also in line
with the 2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, Report no. 42677) which
identifies as Brazil’s country goals: (i) to improve competitiveness by investing in the
transport system, and (ii) to reduce inequality by providing, among others, job
opportunities for the poor. The improvements to the integrated system benefit mainly the
poor residing in the periphery of SPMR.

Project amendments, including the additional financing and extensions of the closing date,
reflected an appropriate level of flexibility by the Bank that allowed the completion of the
Project. The planned implementation period of 5 years was appropriate given the risks
identified during preparation but turned out to be too short given the complexity of the
project and unforeseen delays regarding resettlement and the construction accident.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
a) Achievement of the first PDO, “to improve the quality and long-term sustainability of
urban transport in the SPMR by interconnecting the existing subway, commuter rail and
bus networks through the construction of Metro's Line 4,? is considered Satisfactory
based on the following:
• The stations planned for Phase 1 began operations gradually between May 25, 2010
    and September 15, 2011 and six stations are now fully operational. The Phase 1
    portion of Line 4 was moving over 600,000 passengers per day after 6 months in
    operation with a strong growth trend. This ridership meets the projections at the time
    of preparation and during implementation. In the last decades, very few new metro
    lines in the world have achieved this level of ridership, which validates the soundness
    of the project and the significant projected benefits. Line 4 is no doubt an essential
    integration line of the São Paulo metropolitan public transport system.



                                            11
•   The share of Metro trips among motorized trips in the Region increased from 16%
    estimated for 2001 to 19.3% estimated for 2011. This is a significant achievement
    considering the rapid growth in motorization during this period that is highly
    correlated to rising incomes. The other rail ridership and mode share of CPTM also
    increased significantly in this period. This positive trend is attributable to a portfolio
    of investments made by the SSP, including the implementation of Line 4, improved
    reliability and service frequencies on CPTM lines, and extensions to Lines 1, 2 and 3.
•   The integration of municipal and inter-municipal bus lines was achieved in all six
    stations of Phase 1. This allowed for the efficiency benefits of transferring
    passengers from the surface roads to rail-based modes in a new underground line.
•   Metro’s working ratio (defined as operating costs divided by operating revenues) has
    always remained below one as planned and has actually improved with the
    introduction of Line 4. While the financial impact cannot be fully assessed because
    detailed operating cost data is not publically available from the concessionaire, this
    result suggests that the public sector’s burden has remained the same or decreased
    with Line 4. This is a very important achievement for the financial sustainability of
    the metropolitan transport network.
b) Achievement of the second PDO, “to improve the accessibility of the low-income
population of the areas served by Line 4 to employment centers and health and education
facilities,? is considered Satisfactory based on the following:
• Although, the original target for the generalized travel cost indicator was only
    partially achieved, the target revised in 2008 was more than fully achieved by 2011.
    Line 4 is effectively interconnecting the western part of the SPMR with the rest of the
    Metro and suburban rail network with greatly improved travel times, convenience and
    reliability (a 30% improvement in generalized travel costs from 104 to 73 minutes).
    The trip between Luz station (center) and Vila Sonia (Western periphery) used to be
    made only by car on congested corridors or by bus with multiple transfers but now is
    served by Line 4 Phase 1 between Luz and Butantã (Phase 2 is expected to be
    operational to Vila Sonia in 2014).
• In addition, and perhaps less obvious, Line 4 has significantly increased mobility and
    accessibility for residents of low-income areas in the eastern and northern periphery
    of the SPMR by virtue of significant improvements in physical, operation and fare
    integration in SPMR in the last decade. Physical and operational integration refer to
    the investments made to transfer stations, platforms, and extension of the network
    including Line 4. Line 4 is physically or operationally integrated with Lines 1, 2 and
    3 of Metro and Lines 7, 9, and 12 of CPTM. Fare integration refers to the
    implementation of the Bilhete Único starting in 2006 which provides free transfers
    between Metro, CPTM, municipal buses, and some inter-municipal buses by way of
    especially branded contactless farecards.
c) Achievement of the third PDO, “to seek private sector participation in the development
of Line 4,? is considered Satisfactory based on the following:
• The Line 4 project represents a significant achievement in the involvement of the
    private sector in new urban rail project development and operations in Brazil. Line 4
    was the first Metro project developed under federal and state Public-Private
    Partnership (PPP) laws, breaking the paradigm that had always relied on public funds

                                             12
    to fully finance ‘greenfield’ Metro systems. Moreover, the concessionaire’s
    successful operations using new technologies such as driverless train operation
    (Communications-Based Train Control) and station platform doors suggest greater
    operating efficiencies (lower costs) and improved safety performance.
•   Metro Line 4 introduced an innovative structure for Brazil including the owner
    (METRO), operating concessionaire established by a consortium of private
    companies, and a turnkey contract signed in 2003 for the construction works.
    Infrastructure and part of the rolling stock were financed by the SSP (with the support
    of loans from the World Bank and JBIC) and by private partners at 80% and 20%
    respectively. The 30-year concession contract includes the operation of Metro Line 4,
    as well as the investment and installation for rolling stock, signs, track connections
    and data transmission with the train networks. The operating company supplied 14
    trains in this phase. An estimated $183 million of private investment was made in
    Line 4 although the actual figures are not publicly available. The concessionaire
    received a loan from the private arm of the Inter-American Development Bank to
    finance its obligations.
•   The risk allocation structure attempted to leverage each partner’s strengths:
    construction which is difficult to finance was handled primarily by the public
    authority with support from international agencies. All aspects related to operations
    (including rolling stocks and systems) are financed by the operator. Finally, METRO
    and a Regulatory Commission for the São Paulo State Secretariat for Metropolitan
    Transport (STMSP) ensure coherence for the transit system. Delays in construction
    were covered by the turnkey contract. Demand risks (revenues) are shared in that the
    operator may receive compensation or remunerate the transit authority if actual
    demand is beyond a predefined “band? for an initial period of Phase 1 and Phase 2
    operations. Beyond this initial time frame, the operator covers the commercial risk of
    Line 4.

3.3 Efficiency
A conventional cost-benefit analysis for Phase 1 was carried out using by using the latest
cost and benefits estimates available. The situation with the project was compared against
the situation without the project. The methodology used was the same as the one used
during appraisal for Phase 1 and Phase 2 to ensure comparability of results. The revised
Net Present Value (NPV) of benefits calculated for this report is $364M and Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 13.8%. This ex-post assessment confirms a positive
economic efficiency of the project and the EIRR is higher than international experience
with metro projects of this kind, which average around 8%. The result is also generally
consistent with, though lower than, the NPV and EIRR calculated at Phase 1 appraisal in
2001 ($554M, 17.7%) and at Phase 2 appraisal in 2008 ($825M, 15.6%) primarily due to
an increase in costs and updated assumptions. The following conservative assumptions
were made in this analysis with respect to the situation at appraisal:
    1. Updated investment cost stream to reflect the changes to the components and
        timing
    2. Updated benefits stream to reflect the approximately 4-year delay in the start of
        Phase 1 operations since the original appraisal


                                            13
   3. Maintained the reduction in wages and the incremental increase in operating and
      maintenance cost which were consistent with appraisal
   4. Updated value of time coefficients to account for the differences in time-savings
      for home to work, business and other trip types
   5. Updated travel purpose distribution based on latest estimates

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The rating of Satisfactory is based on: (i) the continued relevance of the project
objectives and design; (ii) the satisfactory achievement of the three development
objectives; and (iii) the estimated positive economic efficiency of the investments despite
significant cost increases and delays to complete the Project. As evidence of this and
according to KPMG’s publication “Infrastructure 100 World Cities Edition? to be issued
in July 2012, Line 4 is one of the 100 most innovative infrastructure projects in the world.
The selection was made by international specialists based on project scale, feasibility,
complexity, innovation and impact on society.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
• Poverty Impact: As described above, Line 4 has improved the access of low-income
    populations to educational centers, medical centers and to the commercial centers of
    Butantã, Pinheiros, Faria Lima, Paulista and downtown region of the city of São
    Paulo. A long-term study of the travel conditions of the poor population in the areas
    influenced by the Line 4 project was begun in 2010 with a survey before the project
    entered operations. A second survey is planned in 2012 approximately one year after
    Phase 1 operations began. A final survey will be conducted after Phase 2 is in
    operations. Preliminary results from the initial survey and the Bank’s analysis
    suggest that low-income commuters from the periphery of the region benefited the
    most from the combination of the single integrated fare (BUI) and Line 4. The
    majority of accessibility benefits (proximity to land uses that generate social and
    economic opportunities) and mobility benefits (generalized travel savings) were
    accrued to low-income families in the periphery of the SPMR who now use Line 4 as
    one of the legs of journey to cross the city or region. Residents of all income classes
    in the immediate vicinity of Line 4 stations also experienced significant benefits that
    became apparent in the rise in real estate values. This effect and the relative values of
    real estate in the region continue to be studied by METRO with support from the
    Bank under the Phase 2 project to better understand the long-term impacts of such
    major investments.
• Private Sector Participation: In addition to jump-starting a public-private partnership
    in the construction of a new subway line under a turnkey contract and an operating
    concession (a major reform supported by the project), the Line 4 project helped to
    create the enabling environment to attract private sector investment for future projects
    in urban transport. The operating cost recovery of the Project and the importance of
    maintaining the working ratio of METRO with the Line 4 were also aspects addressed
    by the project. Line 4 provides a benchmark against which the other privately
    operated urban rail lines will be measured.

                                             14
•   Urban Development: A long-term study of properties values and real estate dynamics
    in the areas surrounding Line 4 is being conducted by METRO with the support of a
    specialized consultant. Quantifying the urban development impacts of transport
    projects is a step towards refining the instruments available to the city or state
    administration, for example urban operations and the sale of Certificado de Potencial
    Adicional de Construção (CEPAC), a type of densification credit. There were three
    urban operations in the vicinity of the Project-- Nova Luz, Faria Lima and Vila Sônia,
    all which are or plan to leverage investments in public transport. Based on the
    experience of Faria Lima Urban Operation, the Vila Sônia Urban Operation and
    CEPAC sale may be able to raise as much as R$300 million in revenues. Vila Sônia
    Urban Operation is currently in draft pending approval by the Environmental Council
    of the City of São Paulo. These estimated resources would be directed, firstly to
    projects of low-income housing, secondly to the environmental valuation and, thirdly
    to structural urban planning transformations (improvement of roads, sidewalks and
    urban equipment).


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
• PPP Capacity Building: In November 2006, SSP successfully awarded a 30-year
    concession for system operation including private financing. This was a landmark
    event and the first project (considered a PPP in Brazil) signed by any public sector
    agency in Brazil since the passage of federal PPP legislation in 2004. The Bank and
    Project were instrumental in building capacity through the institutional component of
    the loan (Part B) and supervision activities. Overall, most urban transport specialists
    would agree that the Line 4 experience opened a number of horizons, changed
    attitudes, and made the sector more friendly to private investment while expanding
    the planning in areas such as poverty impact, urban operations, integrated fare
    structures. The present administration is seeking new PPPs on the basis of this
    positive experience.
• Regulation: One of the requirements of the loan was that the Borrower should
    establish a Regulatory Agency or Transitional Regulatory Entity independent of the
    State Secretary for Metropolitan Transport no later than one year after signing. This
    was partially achieved with the implementation of the Regulatory Commission in
    2006. However, the Regulatory Commission continues to be attached to STMSP.
• Regional Coordination: The institutional coordination developed as part of this
    project was part of the foundation for strengthening metropolitan governance, an idea
    supported by the Bank as a means of improving the quality and the efficiency of
    transport policies in the SPMR. Of special importance is the operationalization of the
    Regional Transport Coordination Commission with participation of the City of São
    Paulo and the other municipalities of the SPMR. An entity was formed around 2004
    and is now referred to as the Integrated Transport Coordination Committee (Comitê
    Diretor de Transporte Integrado - CDTI). The SSP's strategy with the support of the
    Bank was to create a regional coordination entity empowered to do the planning,
    coordinating and priority-setting for new investments and modal integration in the
    SPMR. Its first and perhaps most important initiative taken up by the CDTI was the


                                            15
   design and introduction of the BUI in 2006. CDTI continues to meet regularly and is
   primarily a forum for discussion of metropolitan transport policies and projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The 2007 construction accident at the Pinheiros station not only had a large impact on
project implementation but also in raising and addressing several issues within METRO
and the SSP, including improvement in delineating contractual responsibilities, quality
control, and construction site work safety requirements. The Bank has also been
monitoring and documenting the successful mitigation of the social and environmental
impacts of the accident. The response to the accident was an opportunity to strengthen
METRO’s systems through increased monitoring of the Project. The Bank requested the
Borrower to submit regular reports immediately following the accident with the
following information: a) census survey of the displaced persons and valuation of assets;
b) description of compensation and other resettlement assistance provided to date; c)
description of initial and ongoing consultation processes with displaced people to define
acceptable alternatives; d) institutional responsibilities for the implementation of the
remedial resettlement action plan, including the period after available insurance resources
are exhausted; e) description of existing procedures for grievance redress; f)
arrangements for ongoing monitoring (suggested to include monthly reports to the Bank
until final resolution is has been reached with all affected individuals and households on
settlement); and g) indication of the timetable for the remaining assistance to be provided,
as well as source of budget. The Borrower submitted monthly reports beginning in June
2007 and reduced the frequency to semester reports once all pending cases of
resettlement were substantially resolved.

The Borrower also committed to an independent ex-post evaluation of livelihood
restoration actions to be carried out by an entity independent of the Project or the
construction consortium, CVA. It was determined that settlements were made at fair
market value for lost assets, new appliances to replace those damaged during the power
cuts, payments for pain and suffering, lost profits for business owners, financial support
for late rent payments, as well as significant levels of support for temporary housing,
food, transportation, medications, and psychological counseling. While it is hard to judge
if any level of monetary payment can be adequate to compensate families for the
psychological trauma and inconvenience they underwent, many families emerged from
the crisis with increased assets. Several renter families were able to make down
payments on new homes and some business persons invested in new or expanded
businesses. The resettlement and restitution process is substantially complete except for
very few families who have filed suit to recover damages they claim to have suffered in
excess of the payments already made to them.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome of this operation is moderate for the following reasons:
• Construction risk: The two main civil work contracts for Phase 2 (to include the
   finishing of 5 stations, Vila Sonia yard and a short tunnel segment) were signed in

                                            16
    February 2012 and May 2012 and work is about to begin with a new contractor.
    Considering the nature of the project and the complexity of the civil works, it is
    impossible to eliminate all risks going forward. Nonetheless, METRO and the parties
    involved in building Phase 1 improved their practices and risk mitigation measures.
•   Interface/operational risk: There is moderate risk in problems arising during the
    implementation of Phase 2 civil works (completion of 4 stations shells in intermediate
    stations) while Phase 1 is in operations. By request of the Bank and in order to ensure
    sustainability throughout different phases of the Project, a series of procedures were
    agreed on the coexistence of civil works and system implementation activities
    connected to Phase 2 with the ongoing operations of Phase 1. As such, rules regarding
    access to Metro facilities (both of material and personnel), as well as interface
    committee meetings with representatives of CVQ, METRO, and Regulating
    Commission were established. This goal is improved communication among the
    parties to promote safety and efficiency.
•   There is modest risk of the achievements in metropolitan and institutional
    coordination (CDTI) being undone due to political pressures or other circumstances
    in the SPMR.
•   There is modest risk that the continued expansion of the Metro and CPTM network
    under the current fare structure (flat fares with BUI) could upset the equilibrium of
    operating revenues in the metropolitan network and negatively impacting METRO or
    Line 4 operations in the future. This can be mitigated by studying the possibilities of
    making the fare structure less rigid, for example by gradually introducing zonal fares
    or more targeted subsidies designed to minimize any negative impact on low-income
    passengers in the periphery that currently benefit from flat fares.
•   There is a modest risk of the operating concessionaire deferring maintenance of the
    fleet and facilities or not meeting the performance standards of the contract, thereby
    affecting the long-term sustainability of Line 4. The Regulatory Commission should
    be an independent agency approved by the State legislature with clear authority.
•   The current risk of macroeconomic or fiscal conditions adversely affecting the
    planned Phase 2 expansion and future operations is low. However, significant
    additional investments in rolling stock, stations, and system upgrades are needed to
    increase operating capacity in the SPMR and alleviate the continued growth in
    congestion. These investments in transport infrastructure are among the highest
    priorities for municipal and state governments in SPMR.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

At entry, the Task Team designed an urban transport operation that entailed sound and
innovative features that are still very much valid and appropriate today. These included:
(i) capacity building and support for the development of a successful PPP, promoting
progressive private sector participation in the investment and operations management of
urban transportation systems; (ii) institutional development to promote metropolitan

                                            17
transport coordination and integration, and (iii) improved and increased accessibility of
low-income populations to the public urban transport system.

In this context, the Bank and the Borrower prepared the project by: (i) carrying out a
solid background analysis; (ii) evaluating lessons learned from previous operations and
appropriate alternatives; (iii) holding detailed missions with specialized teams of
consultants; (iv) designing a technically well-conceived project; (v) evaluating a range of
foreseeable risks and proposing appropriate mitigation measures; (vi) paying attention to
institutional aspects, such as ensuring that the project had support from the METRO
Employee Union as well as from all São Paulo political parties; and (vii) ensuring the
availability of the necessary funding for the project. While some implementation
problems (such as early delays and the risk of a construction accident) in retrospect could
have been evaluated further by the Bank during preparation, these risks ultimately had to
be borne by the implementing agency.

Finally, the project development objectives were comprehensive and flexible enough to
remain valid. In sum, the rating of “Satisfactory? reflects the absence of significant
shortcomings in identification, preparation, and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision is rated “Satisfactory? on the following basis: (i) frequent supervision
missions (26 ISRs filed between August 2002 and December 2011, or more than 2 per
year, not including FM, safeguards, and Procurement supervision missions which took
place at least once every year); (ii) prompt identification of implementation problems
such as delays and the construction accident with appropriate responses, including
additional reporting and supervision requirements from the Borrower with the support of
the PMOC; (iii) high-quality advice and support to the Borrower during the entire process
of developing and implementing the turnkey and concession contracts; and (iv) Bank
follow-up actions to deal with unexpected implementation problems in a timely and
appropriate manner, for example by agreeing to increase Bank financing due to Brazilian
R$ appreciation and inflation. Overall, the Task Team showed deep knowledge of the
client’s needs, excellent engagement, and appropriately adapted the project to ensure
maximum relevancy and achievement of PDOs in light of changing conditions and delays
mostly outside the Bank’s control. By the mid-term review (between December 2004 and
May 2005), the main concerns were issues largely out of control of the Bank: the
expropriation delay that impacted the start of construction and the interest of the private
sector in investing in the project considering the market and economic conditions. The
Bank team, however, kept assisting Metro in all of those aspects, providing the
international experience required for METRO to design locally acceptable options.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            18
The Bank helped the Borrower in the adequate preparation of the project and provided
instrumental assistance in developing and implementing the structure of the PPP. The
Bank also actively addressed implementation problems thanks to a careful, versatile and
proactive supervision. This helped adapt the project to changing circumstances and
resulted in the full achievement of the PDOs. In addition, it can be argued that the Bank’s
participation was key to ensure that the private sector felt more comfortable in investing
in this pioneering project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

SSP was effective in implementing the necessary fare integration as well as
physical/operation integration between Line 4 and the other lines of the Metro, CPTM
and bus systems. However, delays and the initial unavailability of counterpart funds
impacted the scope and implementation in the first years of the project (but improved
later on). Moreover, the Regulatory Commission was not properly staffed in the
beginning with a clear mandate as recommended by the Bank. Legal and contractual
expertise is needed in addition to technical skills offered by METRO. Although their
performance has significantly improved, the Commission was not transformed into a
more independent Regulatory Agency approved by the State legislature (as required by
the loan agreement). Thus, the government’s performance is rated “Moderately
Satisfactory.?

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The METRO is an experienced organization with a department dedicated to supervising
Line 4 implementation and an appropriate Project Management Unit (PMU) focused on
institutional, financial, fiduciary, reporting and safeguards issues of the Bank loan. The
PMU continues this role for the Line 4 Phase 2 Project. In addition, the PMU is supported
by a Project Management Oversight Consultant (PMOC) financed by the loan, which
issues monthly and ad hoc reports to the State Secretary of Metropolitan Transport
(STMSP) and to the Bank. Finally, there was always an appropriate Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) reporting to the STMSP Secretary and to the Governor on strategic aspects of
the project.

While the project was successfully implemented, the schedule, cost, and disbursements
were significantly impacted by problems of early litigation delays and the construction
accident. Although METRO tried to follow sound procedures, neither local litigation nor
the international litigation worked well. Having all documents and litigation in English
was a burden and time-consuming exercise for METRO. On the other hand, national
litigation can suffer from the potential influence of contractors in the domestic market.
These problems, while never entirely preventable, could have been better anticipated by
METRO in their procedures and schedules. Therefore, the implementing agency’s
performance is rated “Moderately Satisfactory.?

                                            19
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is Moderately Satisfactory based on the performance
of the SSP and METRO. Despite a significant delay in project completion and other
implementation problems, all project outputs were delivered and outcomes were
substantially achieved.

6. Lessons Learned

Line 4 was a landmark project that demonstrated that PPPs are viable for urban rail in
Brazil and provided a platform for further development in the country and elsewhere.
Regulatory commissions and strong supervision by the State or its representative is
needed during construction and operation, and training must be provided to those
responsible for these functions. PPP contracts must have very stiff penalties for delays in
construction as well as bonus for earlier completion. They must also have very stiff
penalties for non-compliance during operations and key performance indicators must be
carefully designed and enforced. Other specific lessons in risk management emerge at the
conclusion of the project:

•   Turnkey Model: A turnkey approach for civil works presents advantages and
    disadvantages in relation to traditional procurement by government. Uncertainties
    with regard to soil and geological conditions discovered during construction of Line 4
    are the basis for an ongoing legal dispute between METRO and the turnkey
    contractor over the additional costs. When a turnkey is used, mechanisms to handle
    changes in the project design, either requested by the State or in view of unanticipated
    geological or construction reasons, must be clearly defined between the parties. This
    will ultimately protect public interest and facilitate the acceptance of these changes by
    overseeing Accounts Tribunals. Turnkey and concession contracts should require a
    “Project Integrator? or “Interface Consultant? to be hired as early hired as early as the
    time signing the concession contract (as suggested by the Bank for Line 4). This
    consultant could have been paid in equal parts by METRO and by the concessionaire
    to have a role in ensuring that interface problems between civil works and systems are
    resolved and shared risks properly are mitigated.
•   Construction Safety: Clear lines of responsibility and response mechanisms need to
    be established since the safety of civil works and operations is ultimately a shared risk
    between government (and its agencies) and the contractor regardless of contract
    terms. As recognized by METRO, International Tunneling Insurance Group's Code of
    Practice for risk management of tunnel works should be observed. This considerably
    reduces risks connected to the design and execution of subterranean works.
•   Implementation Time: The Line 4 experience confirms that the expropriation process,
    environmental licensing and advance procurement must be carefully planned from the
    beginning and executed by the Government to avoid costly delays in project
    implementation. To the extent foreseeable, potential litigation and potential


                                             20
    procedural delays should be factored in implementation time and the procurement
    process should ensure that the possibility of such litigation is minimized.
•   Regulatory Agency: As recommended by the Bank for any PPP, a formal agency
    should be given a clear mandate or established early enough to ensure that it is
    properly staffed. The agency must be considered sufficiently independent and
    credible to conduct its duty. For example, it is important that a Regulatory Agency
    periodically verifies the emergency evacuation plans and readiness to implement such
    plans by the contractor in case of accidents. As shown by the Pinheiros station
    accident, better evacuation and emergency procedures are fundamental in projects of
    this type.
•   PPP Design: The ideal situation in PPP projects is to have the concessionaire execute
    all works and acquisition of equipment and systems to ensure that opportunities for
    efficiencies and improvements are well aligned and realized. The State could finance
    the civil works and part of the systems but actual implementation could be entrusted
    to the concessionaire to avoid interface problems. The State should remain as
    regulator and supervisor with minimum interference using a project management
    oversight consultant. This was the original design of Line 4 but because of delays in
    the approval of the PPP law and internal resistance, the State opted to procure civil
    works and electrification separately from the operating concession. In future similar
    projects, the full project implementation and operation could be entrusted to a
    concessionaire selected on an open and competitive basis.
•   Bidding Process: The bid for the PPP concessionaire should have been completed at
    the time the civil works were bid so that the concessionaire could have actively
    participated in the implementation of the civil works and possibly requested
    adaptations to accommodate the equipment it intended to buy. This was the original
    intent for Line 4 but the PPP law was only approved much later than the start of the
    civil works and the concession law (which existed at that time) did not allow risk
    mitigation or operational subsidies.
•   Contract Mediation: Contracts for concession should be clear about mediation
    procedures as well as include clauses to allow government to demand proactive
    measures from the concessionaire to repair defects and indicate measures to be taken
    in case a defect cannot be immediately repaired.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
A summary of the Borrower’s completion report is included in Annex 7. The Borrower,
through METRO and their consultants, describe the project, its changes, and explain the
factors that led to delays in the completion of the project. These factors are consistent
with those presented in this report. The Borrower’s report assesses the Bank’s role and
acknowledges the Bank’s contribution both through the availability of financial resources
and the active advisory role through frequent missions. The Borrower also comments on
the numerous benefits brought by Line 4 to the low-income population and significant
technological innovations. Finally, the borrower evaluates its own role and the role of the
METRO, by highlighting some of the problems faced during implementation and the
actions taken. The Borrower concludes that the project fully achieved its objectives.

                                            21
Representatives of the Borrower and implementing agency also reviewed this report and
found it to be consistent with their conclusions.

(b) Cofinanciers
JBIC representatives confirmed that they had no comments to the report.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None.




                                          22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

  (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal       Appraisal                                Percentage
                                                                     Revision      Actual
                                       Estimate        Estimate                                Variation of
Component                                                            2003**         2012
                                    2001 - Original 2001 - Adapted                             Appraisal***
                                          A                B            C            D            (D/B)-1
Infrastructure and Equipment Component (Part A)
Project Design                           24,80           24,80         14,03        20,80         -16,1%
Expropriations                           46,00           46,00         35,19        71,49         55,4%
Civil Works                             324,70          324,70        349,07       884,55        172,4%
Permanent Way                            52,00           52,00         23,84        56,40         8,5%
Systems                                 156,50          103,20        184,84       448,83        334,9%
Rolling Stock                           154,20
Others                                                                              27,32


Technical Assistance (Part B)
Administration / Supervision and         15,20
Technical Assistance                     17,80           33,00         25,50        15,84         -52,0%
Total Baseline Cost                     791,20          583,70        632,48        1.527,83     161,7%


   Front End Fee                          2,09             2,09         1,60         4,94        136,4%
Physical Contingencies       (1)         63,81           63,81        197,80             -        0,0%
   Price Contingencies (2)               76,80           76,80         58,75             -        0,0%
Total Public Sector                     933,90          726,40        890,63        1.530,16     110,6%


Private Sector - PPP Concession –
item3.4
Rolling Stock                                           154,20        117,96       189,12        22,65%
Systems                                                  53,30         40,77        56,98        13,18%
Total Private Sector*                                   207,50        158,73       246,10        18,60%


Total Project Cost                      933,90          933,90          1.049,36    1.776,26     90,20%


  Notes:

  * The private sector costs are estimates (including in 2012) since actual figures are not publically
  disclosed. Therefore the table above separates the public sector costs (Government contribution)
  from the private sector costs.



                                                      23
  **The difference in the total public sector contribution between the Adapted Appraisal in 2001
  (estimate that considers the PPP component in the original appraisal amount) and 2003 Revision
  is equivalent to US$ 164.2 million, an increase of 22.6%. This increase is primarily due to the
  large increase in physical contingency included for the procurement and implementation of the
  main contracts (Lots 1, 2, and 3).

  *** Between 2001 (Adapted Appraisal) and 2012, the total increase the public sector costs was
  approximately US$ 803.7 million, a variation of 110.6%. However, given the basic level of
  design at Appraisal, it was only possible to compare the variation between the total public sector
  cost in 2003 and in 2012 which came to US$ 639.5 million (an increase of 72%). This was
  primarily due to: (1) variation in the exchange rate (estimated at US$ 175.27 million) as described
  above, where the financing was in US Dollars while main contracts were in Brazilian Reais, (2)
  increase in contract prices due to the annual readjustment formula in the contracts that was also
  adversely affected by the combination of the US Dollar devaluation and inflation observed in the
  period (estimated at US$ 161.79 million) and (3) changes in the scope or schedule of the project
  including amendments and change in construction methods (US$ 302.5 million) including the
  following:
          o Inclusion of Faria Lima station in Phase 1;
          o Change in the construction method from Shields to NATM in parts of Lot 2;
          o Executive project, supply and implementation of platform doors' system (PSD) for
              the Phase 1 and Phase 2 stations;
          o Executive project, production, supply and implementation of data transmission
              system (STD);
          o Executive project, production, supply and implementation of Collection and
              passengers system (SCAP) Line 4, phases 1 and 2, including Vila Sonia's yard;
          o Executive project, supply and implementation of moving walkways.

  (b) Financing
                                                                 Appraisal Estimate                      Current                 Percentage Variation of
Source of Funds
                                                                         2001                              2012                        Appraisal

IBRD (1)                                                                209,00                            209,00                                       0,0%

JBIC (2)                                                                209,00                            209,00                                       0,0%

Aditivos - (3)

IBRD (1)                                                                   -                               95,00

JBIC (2)                                                                   -                               95,13

Total Financing                                                         418,00                            608,13                                       45,5%

State of São Paulo                                                      308,40                            922,03                                   199,0%

Total Public Sector                                                     726,40                           1.530,16                                  110,6%



Private Sector - PPP Concession                                         207,50                            246,10                                   18,60%



Total Source of Funds                                                   933,90                           1.776,26                                  90,20%
  1 - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
  2 - Japan Bank for International Cooperation
  3- Due to exchange rate fluctuation until 2007, São Paulo’s State government requested a contractual amendment for an additional loan of US$ 190,0
  million (IBRD US$ 95,0 million and JBIC US$ 95,0 million). However the exchange rate fluctuation continued after that date.




                                                                           24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment
Construction of, provision of equipment for, and operation and maintenance of the line of
the SP Metro which will link the SP Metro’s Vila Sonia yard facility to the SP Metro’s
Luz station (Line 4), consisting of about 12,800 meters of double underground track, 5
stations and 4 station shells, acquisition and installation of system-wide facilities
(including fixed installations for electrification), and acquisition and operation of 16 train
sets.

This component was later revised and, among other changes, a sixth station was included
as one of its outputs (Faria Lima station).

Part B: Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for: (1) the management oversight and supervision of
the carrying out of Part A of the Project; (2) the carrying out of a financial management
and cost recovery review (including recommendations on tariff structure) of the SP Metro
operations; and (3) for a follow-up project finance study on alternatives for private sector
participation in the carrying out of Part A of the Project.

  Sub-                      Output Indicators                   %            Comments (including
Component                                                     target         reasons for changes)
                                                             achieved
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment (original)
Permanent     (i) 1478m of double track tunnel (one 8.43m    100%          (ii) 150m part in double
Way           internal diameter tunnel) constructed using                  track and part in single
(12.810 km, the “shield? method in soil between North of                   track, and (iii) 136m
double track Luz station and the 24 de Maio works shaft                    single track and 68m
link          (ii) 150m part in double track tunnel and part               double track were all
between the in single track (two tunnels) constructed by                   changed to double track
Vila Sonia    the New Austrian Tunneling Method                            tunnel.
yard facility (NATM) in soil between 24 de Maio works                       (iv), (v), (vi) remained
located       shaft and Republica station                                  unaltered, as original.
south-west    (iii) 136m of single track NATM tunneling in                 (vii) 1000m from
of the        soil and 68m of double track tunnel                          Fradique Coutinho
Pinheiros     constructed by cover-and-cut between                         station to Faria Lima
river and     Republica station and the Hilton works shaft                 station remained double
the Luz       (iv) 1324m of double track shield tunneling in               track shield tunnel,
station)      soil from the Hilton works shaft to Cel Jose                 otherwise, 4239m from
              Eusebio ventilation shaft                                    Faria Lima to cut and
              (v) 507m of triple track NATM tunneling in                   cover (transition to the
              soil between Cel Jose Eusebio ventilation                    surface in Vila Sonia)
              shaft and Paulista station                                   were changed to NATM
              (vi) 2335m of double track shield tunneling in               double track.
              soil between Paulista and Fradique Coutinho
              stations
              (vii) 5239m of double track shield tunnel and


                                             25
             354m of cover-and-cut tunnel both
             constructed in soil and rock from the Fradique
             Coutinho station to the transition to the
             surface to access the Vila Sonia yard
Stations     5 completed stations (Butanta, Pinheiros,        100%   An additional station
             Paulista, Republica and Luz) and 4 station              (Faria Lima) originally
             shells (Faria Lima, Fradique Coutinho, Oscar            planned for Phase 2 was
             Freire and Higienopolis)                                also delivered.
System-      High and medium-voltage (AC) electrical          98%    Power substation has
Wide         power system, including one primary                     pending issues. Medium
Facilities   substation of 138/88-22 KV, which will                  and high tension stations
             support a network of medium voltage, DC                 are concluded.
             traction power substations with their
             respective rectifiers and transformers
             DC traction contract line system for             100%   Completed
             distributing 1500 V power to the trains via a
             overhead conductor system in the tunnel
             section and via a conventional overhead
             centenary system in the parking and
             maintenance yard
             Low voltage electrical system comprising         100%   Completed
             switchboards, transformers, diesel generator
             group and no break for all electrical systems
             below 460 V including illumination and cable
             trays
             Ventilation system in stations and tunnels       97%    Contract is 97%
                                                                     concluded.
                                                                     Vibration tests still to be
                                                                     concluded. Delivery of
                                                                     “as built? documents is
                                                                     pending. Activities for
                                                                     closing the contract (TAP
                                                                     and TAD issuing) to be
                                                                     carried out. Amendment
                                                                     to reduce scope about to
                                                                     be issued.
             Elevators for physically disadvantaged and       100%   Completed
             escalators for passengers
             Auxiliary systems such as pumps, fire            100%   Completed
             detection, illumination, panels, etc.
             Telecommunication system, data                   95%    Fixed communication
             transmission, voice and video                           system – implementation
                                                                     ongoing
             Communications based train control system        100%   Completed
             for signaling- CBTC
             On-board equipment for signaling;                100%   Completed
             Passenger and fare control system- CBTC
             Supervision and control system for traffic,      90%    Conclusion is pending.

                                           26
             energy and auxiliary
             All system facilities for the Vila Sonia         100%   Completed
             maintenance and parking yard, including
             electrical power supply, telecommunications,
             signaling and auxiliary systems
Rolling      16 trainsets to operate this line in Phase 1     100%   14 trainsets were
Stock                                                                delivered according to
                                                                     revised Phase 1.
             Maintenance facility at Vila Sonia to                   Due to Phase 2
             accommodate up to 25 trainsets
             Maintenance shop facilities, including all       100%   Both the Vila Sonia Yard
             equipment for maintaining the revenue and               and the maintenance
             non-revenue vehicles, will be part of the yard          services currently in
             complex                                                 operation are able to meet
                                                                     the needs of the 14 trains
                                                                     running along Line 4 –
                                                                     Phase 1.

Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment (revised)
              Inclusion of Faria Lima Station in Phase 1  100%       Completed
              14 trainsets                                100%       Completed

             Change from Shields to NATM construction         100%   Amendment was
             method for parts of Lot 2                               necessary for the change
                                                                     in constructive method.
             Executive project, supply and implementation 100%       97% of contract and
             of platform door system (PSD) for the Phase 1           respective amendments
             and Phase 2 stations                                    (Phase 1) concluded.
                                                                     Software for data
                                                                     transmission to center of
                                                                     operational control still
                                                                     missing. Phase 2 works
                                                                     not started yet.

             Executive project, production, supply and        97%    97% of contract and
             implementation of data transmission system              respective amendments
             (STD)                                                   (Phase 1) concluded.
                                                                     Phase 2 works not started
                                                                     yet.
                                                                     Software for data
                                                                     transmission to center of
                                                                     operational control still
                                                                     pending.
             Executive project, production, supply and        100%   Phase 1 concluded. Phase
             implementation of Collection and passengers             2 depends on finishing
             system (SCAP) Line 4, phases 1 and 2,                   the stations – Service
             including Vila Sonia’s yard.                            order issued in March 1st
                                                                     2012.

                                            27
             Executive project, supply and implementation   100%      93% of contract
             of moving walkways.                                      delivered.
                                                                      Performance evaluation
                                                                      to be done and “as built?
                                                                      documents to be
                                                                      delivered.
Part B: Technical Assistance
             Project Management Oversight Consultant        100%      PMOC under contract
             (PMOC) assisting the Project Coordination                since August 2004 and
             Unit                                                     issuing reports to
                                                                      METRO, STMSP and
                                                                      Bank.
             Financial management and cost recovery         100%      Completed by 2006:
             study (including recommendations on tariff               - METRO studies that
             structure)                                               resulted in the
                                                                      development and
                                                                      introduction of the BUI
                                                                      in 2006.
                                                                      - Study of Line 4 fare
                                                                      and revenue allocation
                                                                      arrangement between
                                                                      METRO and
                                                                      concessionaire
                                                                      considering passengers
                                                                      of Line 4 and other lines.
             Follow up of the project finance studies       100%      Completed by 2005:
                                                                      - Report by financial
                                                                      advisor on private
                                                                      participation in the
                                                                      operation of Line 4.
                                                                      - Review PPP studies
                                                                      developed by METRO by
                                                                      consultants.
                                                                      - Study of urban
                                                                      operations (including
                                                                      financial implications) by
                                                                      consultants.

Project Component 1 (original)
An Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component (Part A): to build the METRO’s
Line 4 between Vila Sonia and Luz, including the transfer stations between road and rail
based systems. This is an underground rail rapid transit connection which will link
CPTM’s south line, METRO’s Line 1 at Luz Station, METRO’s Line 2 at Consolacao
Station and METRO’s Line 3 at República Station. Line 4 of the METRO will be a
12.810 km, double track link between the Vila Sonia yard facility located south-west of
the Pinheiros river and the Luz station. This component will comprise:


                                           28
a) Civil Works: Line 4 is to be constructed entirely underground from its tail track
   north-east of Luz Station to the maintenance facility portal at Vila Sonia. Track
   will be standard gauge. The line sections will consist of: (i) 1478m of double
   track tunnel (one 8.43m internal diameter tunnel) constructed using the “shield?
   method in soil between North of Luz station and the 24 de Maio works shaft; (ii)
   150m part in double track tunnel and part in single track (two tunnels) constructed
   by the New Austrian Tunneling Method (NATM) in soil between 24 de Maio
   works shaft and República station; (iii) 136m of single track NATM tunneling in
   soil and 68m of double track tunnel constructed by cover-and-cut between
   República station and the Hilton works shaft; (iv) 1324m of double track shield
   tunneling in soil from the Hilton works shaft to Cel Jose Eusebio ventilation shaft;
   (v) 507m of triple track NATM tunneling in soil between Cel Jose Eusebio
   ventilation shaft and Paulista station; (vi) 2335m of double track shield tunneling
   in soil between Paulista and Fradique Coutinho stations; and (vii) 5239m of
   double track shield tunnel and 354m of cover-and-cut tunnel both constructed in
   soil and rock from the Fradique Coutinho station to the transition to the surface to
   access the Vila Sonia yard. At the end of the proposed project there will be 5
   completed stations (Butantã, Pinheiros, Paulista, República and Luz) and 4 station
   shells (Faria Lima, Fradique Coutinho, Oscar Freire and Higienopolis). When
   Phase 2 of line 4 is completed, there will be in addition two more passenger
   stations on the line, Morumbi and Tres Poderes. When completed, in the end of
   Phase 2, the project lin 4 will have 11 stations. The stations have off-street
   entrances and 132m train platforms. At the end 6 stations would be constructed
   using NATM and the 5 remaining stations would be constructed using cover-and-
   cut.
b) System-Wide Facilities include the following components: (i) a high and medium-
   voltage (AC) electrical power system, including one primary substation of
   138/88-22 KV, which will support a network of medium voltage, DC traction
   power substations with their respective rectifiers and transformers; (ii) a DC
   traction contract line system for distributing 1500 V power to the trains via a
   overhead conductor system in the tunnel section and via a conventional overhead
   centenary system in the parking and maintenance yard; (iii) a low voltage
   electrical system comprising switchboards, transformers, diesel generator group
   and no break for all electrical systems below 460 V including illumination and
   cable trays; (iv) a ventilation system in stations and tunnels; (v) elevators for
   physically disadvantaged and escalators for passengers; (vi) auxiliary systems
   such as pumps, fire detection, illumination, panels, etc.; (vii) a telecommunication
   system, data transmission, voice and video; (viii) a communications based train
   control system for signaling; (ix) on-board equipment for signaling; (x) a
   passenger and fare control system; (xi) a supervisory and control system for
   traffic, energy and auxiliary; (xii) all system facilities for the Vila Sonia
   maintenance and parking yard shall be provided including electrical power
   supply, telecommunications, signaling and auxiliary systems.
c) Rolling Stock comprising a fleet of 16 trainsets to operate this line in Phase 1 and
   additional 8 trainsets to complete 24 trainsets to operate this line in Phase 2. As in
   the existing Metro system, these trains will operate under Automatic Train

                                         29
      Control (ATC). The maintenance facility at Vila Sonia will accommodate up to
      25 trainsets. Maintenance shop facilities, including all equipment for maintaining
      the revenue and non-revenue vehicles, will be part of the yard complex.

Project Component 1 (revised)
The Turnkey agreement allowed for modifications in the project (Clause “GCC 39 –
Modificação das Instalações?) that were discussed and approved. In addition, other
significant component changes were:
• Inclusion of Faria Lima station in Phase 1;
• Change in the construction method from Shields to NATM in parts of Lot 2;
• Executive project, supply and implementation of platform doors’ system (PSD) for
    the Phase 1 and Phase 2 stations;
• Executive project, production, supply and implementation of data transmission
    system (STD);
• Executive project, production, supply and implementation of Collection and
    passengers system (SCAP) Line 4, phases 1 and 2, including Vila Sonia’s yard;
• Executive project, supply and implementation of moving walkways.

Project Component 2
A technical Assistance Component (Part B) to finance: a) the Project Management
Oversight Consultant (PMOC) who will assist the Project Coordination Unit; and the
supervision of the works and goods financed under the project; b) a financial
management and cost recovery study (including recommendations on tariff structure)
designed to propose far reaching cost cutting measures and revenue maximization to
improve METRO’s working ratio by 2006; and c) a follow up of the project finance
studies. There were no changes to the original components.




                                          30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A conventional cost-benefit analysis was adapted from the March 2010 appraisal for the
Line 4 Phase 2 Project (which included both Phase 1 and 2) to assess the effectiveness of
the Phase 1 project with the latest available information. The situation with the project
was compared to the situation without the project. For this analysis, METRO estimated
the passenger hours and passenger-kms with and without the Project through demand
modeling and converted them into time savings and operating cost savings.

The results of the revised cost-benefit analysis are a net present value (NPV, discounted
at 10%) of US$364 million and an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 13.8%. The
following benefits were considered for this analysis:

Benefits:
The evaluation considered the same benefits as for the evaluation of Phase 2. These are:
        1. Travel time savings: These are estimated by determining the passenger-hours
            saved, by type of trip (home to work, business or other) and multiplied by the
            value of time for each type of trip. The demand model estimates passenger
            hours with and without the project mode. Value of time was kept at the same
            as the Phase 2 Analysis.
        2. Operating cost savings: These are savings resulting from the lower costs of
            operating all modes with and without the project. The demand model
            estimates the passenger-kms with and without the project and these are
            multiplied by the respective estimated unit operating costs. The project
            decreases the number of bus-kms traveled on the urban bus network through
            the re-routing of the buses to the main stations. The bus-kms saved per year
            are estimated by the demand model. The costs of operating the Metro are
            included. The result is the net savings.
        3. Reduction in road maintenance/management costs due to the reduction of
            bus-kms with the project (minor).
        4. An estimate for the reduction of accidents and road-based vehicle emissions
            was available but not considered for this analysis as direct benefits (a
            conservative assumption).

Other Assumptions:
All cost and benefit figures were calculated at 6/11 from 2013 of their values to account
for only Phase 1, which consists of 6 out of the 11 total stations analyzed in Phase 2
presentation. The following were other assumptions made in the analysis with respect to
the situation at 2010 appraisal:

   1. Investment Plan: To match the Annex1 of Phase 1 Investments, Investment Costs
      from the Phase 2 analysis are weighted as follows:.
         a. Years 2002-2008 are weighted at 100% of Phase 2 Projections.
         b. Year 2009 is weighted at 78.585% of Phase 2 Projections to match the
             total Phase 1 investment cost in Annex 1 of the Phase 1 actuals.



                                           31
      c. In Year 2036, there is a tax payment based on 6/11 of the Phase 2 amount,
          based on the number of total stations.
2. Benefits:
      a. Year 2010-2012 is weighted at 100% of Phase 2 Projections as only Phase
          1 was in operation.
      b. The following years are weighted at 6/11 of Phase 2 Projections based on
          the total number of stations.
3. Operating and Wage Costs:
      a. Years 2010-2012 are weighted at 100% of Phase 2 Projections as only
          Phase 1 was in operation.
      b. The following years are weighted at 6/11 of Phase 2 Projections based on
          the total number of stations.
4. NPV and IRR:
      a. Calculated using only the direct benefits, including travel time savings,
          calculated as mentioned above.
      b. 10% discount rate, as in Phase 2 analysis.




                                      32
                                                  BENEFITS                                                             COSTS                           Net Benefit     Net Benefit
                                                                    BUS
                 TRAVEL          OPERATING      MAINTENANCE      MANAGING        TOTAL                                 OPERATING           TOTAL             Direct          Direct
                  TIME             COST             COST           COST        DIRECT and         INVESTMENT             WAGE                                  and            only
PROJECT
          YEAR                                                                                    COSTS                   COSTS            COSTS
 YEAR            SAVINGS          SAVINGS         SAVINGS        SAVINGS       BENEFITS                                                                    Indirect
   1      2002                                                                                                                                     0               0               0
   2      2003                                                                                                   878                             878            -878            -878
   3      2004                                                                                                81,518                          81,518         -81,518         -81,518
   4      2005                                                                                                89,268                          89,268         -89,268         -89,268
   5      2006                                                                                               193,847                         193,847        -193,847        -193,847
   6      2007                                                                                               199,862                         199,862        -199,862        -199,862
   7      2008                                                                                               682,798                         682,798        -682,798        -682,798
   8      2009                                                                                               525,995                         525,995        -525,995        -525,995
  9       2010         345,557         16,698           13,768        29,229            427,253                                 26,843        26,843         400,410         378,409
  10      2011         349,013         16,865           13,906        29,521            431,525                                 53,687        53,687         377,838         355,618
  11      2012         352,503         17,033           14,045        29,816            435,841                                 62,634        62,634         373,207         350,763
  12      2013         260,011         12,564           10,360        21,993            260,011                                 34,240        34,240         225,771         270,687
  13      2014         262,611         12,689           10,463        22,213            262,611                                 54,638        54,638         207,973         253,339
  14      2015         265,237         12,817           10,568        22,435            265,237                                 50,387        50,387         214,850         260,669
  15      2016         267,890         12,945           10,674        22,659            267,890                                 51,627        51,627         216,263         262,541
  16      2017         270,568         13,074           10,780        22,886            270,568                                 50,581        50,581         219,988         266,728
  17      2018         273,274         13,205           10,888        23,115            273,274                                 54,063        54,063         219,212         266,420
  18      2019         276,007         13,337           10,997        23,345            276,007                                 55,446        55,446         220,561         268,240
  19      2020         278,767         13,471           11,107        23,579            278,767                                 53,711        53,711         225,056         273,212
  20      2021         281,555         13,605           11,218        23,815            281,555                                 53,230        53,230         228,325         276,963
  21      2022         284,371         13,741           11,330        24,053            284,371                                 51,891        51,891         232,479         281,603
  22      2023         287,214         13,879           11,444        24,293            287,214                                 55,987        55,987         231,227         280,843
  23      2024         290,086         14,017           11,558        24,537            290,086                                 57,296        57,296         232,790         282,902
  24      2025         292,987         14,157           11,674        24,782            292,987                                 52,808        52,808         240,179         290,792
  25      2026         295,917         14,299           11,791        25,030            295,917                                 56,624        56,624         239,293         290,413
  26      2027         298,876         14,442           11,908        25,280            298,876                                 52,821        52,821         246,055         297,686
  27      2028         301,865         14,587           12,027        25,533            301,865                                 57,717        57,717         244,148         296,294
  28      2029         304,883         14,732           12,148        25,788            304,883                                 53,735        53,735         251,148         303,816
  29      2030         307,933         14,879           12,269        26,046            307,933                                 55,625        55,625         252,308         305,502
  30      2031         311,012         15,028           12,392        26,307            311,012                                 56,423        56,423         254,589         308,315
  31      2032         314,122         15,179           12,516        26,570            314,122                                 59,447        59,447         254,674         308,939
  32      2033         317,263         15,331           12,641        26,835            317,263                                 60,520        60,520         256,743         311,549
  33      2034         320,435         15,484           12,767        27,104            320,435                                 54,662        54,662         265,773         321,128
  34      2035         320,435         15,484           12,767        27,104            320,435                                 56,822        56,822         263,614         318,969
  35      2036         323,640         15,639           12,895        27,375            323,640            -708,168             54,679      -653,489         977,129       1,033,037
                                                                                  NPV and IRR Calculations based only on direct benefits                      NPV:     $364,581.71
                                                                                                                                                              IRR:         13.77%




                                                                       33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Susana Amaral                Financial Management Specialis    LCSFM
Armando Ribeiro Araujo       Consultant                        AFTEG
Judy L. Baker                Lead Economist                    FEUUR
Jose Augusto Carvalho        Consultant                        LCSPT
Tulio Henrique Lima Correa   Financial Management Specialis    LCSFM
Georges Bianco Darido        Transport Specialist              LCSTR
Marilda Stenghel Froes       Consultant                        LCSTR
Daniel R. Gross              Consultant                        LCSEN
Jose C. Janeiro              Senior Finance Officer            CTRFC
Ralf-Michael Kaltheier       Senior Transport Economist        LCSTR
Paul Procee                  Senior Infrastructure Speciali    EASCS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                      5.17
  FY98                                                                     63.90
  FY99                                                                     18.22
  FY00                                            1                         6.55
  FY01                                           21                        80.77
  FY02                                           20                       115.94
  FY03                                                                      1.82
  FY04                                             2                        7.99
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00
                             Total:              44                       300.36
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                       0.00
  FY98                                                                       0.00
  FY99                                                                       0.00
  FY00                                                                       0.00

                                            34
FY01                        0.00
FY02                  3    36.66
FY03                  9    78.49
FY04                  9    78.79
FY05                 10   101.21
FY06                  9    94.34
FY07                  5    98.94
FY08                       59.46
       Total:        45   547.89




                35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
None




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
None




                                   37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                          Borrower’s Evaluation Report
                                State of São Paulo
                          São Paulo Metro Line 4 Project
                   Loan Agreements No. 4646-BR and No. 7536-BR


Preface
This is the final report relating to the São Paulo Metro Line 4 Project – Phase 1,
undertaken with the participation of the State of São Paulo Government and Brazil’s
Federal Government. The Project was supported with the sum of US$209 million of
IBRD financing under the terms of a first Loan Agreement signed in June 2002. An
additional Loan Agreement for the amount of US$95 million was signed in June 2008.

Introduction
The State of São Paulo (SSP) urban transport strategy for the São Paulo Metropolitan
Region (SPMR) is anchored in 4 pillars: a) to establish a regional transport coordination
commission (RTCC) with the municipalities, operators and users, which has already
occurred; b) to develop and update on a periodic basis, an integrated land use, urban
transport and air quality strategy; c) to introduce financing mechanisms which will
guarantee the long-term sustainability of the urban transport systems; and d) to promote
progressive private sector participation in the investment and operations management of
those systems.

The construction of Line 4 under a public-private partnership is aligned with SSP’s
strategy. It will be a pioneer project because it starts a trend towards investment of the
private sector in the construction of new infrastructure and equipment. SSP's strategy is
therefore to integrate the existing systems, to offer an acceptable level of service to the
user and to eliminate operating subsidies. Therefore, the main reform supported by the
project is the pioneering of a public-private partnership in the construction of a subway
line under a turnkey with private sector participation (PSP) scheme. In the past, METRO
always relied on SSP funds for the construction of its lines. The State budgetary
constraints in the last ten years prevented the Metro network to grow as fast as was
desirable in a city with the population density of São Paulo. This project is not only
jump-starting a public-private partnership but also creating the enabling environment to
attract private sector investment for future projects in urban transport. The other key
policy reform supported by the project addresses the issue of cost-recovery by the
METRO and stresses the importance of covering working costs with operating revenues.

The project is fully consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy of supporting
policies and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development in
a context of macroeconomic stability. This project also contributes to the attainment of
state creditworthiness and fiscal improvement because the new line will not have an
operating subsidy. The proposed project is also a follow-up to the efforts started with the
CBTU São Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project and the Barra Funda-

                                            38
Roosevelt Project which aimed respectively at decentralizing the federally-owned CBTU
to the State to allow for more effective modal and tariff integration and to link the two
existing commuter railways of the region.

Project Objectives
The project objectives, as indicated in the loan instrument and in the Project Appraisal
Document were: (a) to improve the quality and long-term sustainability of urban transport
in the SPMR by interconnecting the existing subway, commuter rail and bus networks
through the construction of Metro's Line 4; (b) to improve the accessibility of the low-
income population of the areas served by Line 4 to employment centers and health and
education facilities; and (c) to seek private sector participation in the development of
Line 4.

The first objective was designed to be achieved by financing the construction of Line 4 of
METRO which links the Vila Sonia suburb with the Luz station and would have, by the
end of the proposed project, 12.8 km of double underground track, 5 stations, one yard,
one workshop and 13 trainsets (Phase 1). Later, these project infrastructure components
for Phase 1 were revised (as described below). When fully built, i.e., after the proposed
project, Line 4 will have in total 14 stations and 23 trainsets. The proposed project would
be undertaken under a turnkey contract with private sector participation (concession or
other arrangement), in which 80% of the project will be financed by the public sector and
the remainder by the private sector. The second objective will be achieved by promoting
modal and fare integration between buses, subway and rail, in such a way as to minimize
the overall generalized cost of travel (tariff, travel time, reliability and safety) to the low
income users of the system, particularly those from Embu and Taboão da Serra. The third
objective will be met through either a concession agreement or other private sector
participation (PSP) arrangement to obtain at least 20% of the cost of the project.

The Line 4 Project is a priority undertaking within the Integrated Urban Transportation
Plan (PITU) for the SPMR. The Project will (i) serve as a "bridge" between METRO's
Line 5 and Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos (CPTM) West commuter line to
the METRO network, (ii) interconnect with all three existing METRO lines to provide a
grid flexibility to the Metro network which does not exist with the present radial
configuration, and (iii) interconnect two CPTM commuter rail lines. At the end of the
project, the whole metrorail network will be interconnected thereby facilitating access to
most of the sectors of the SPMR.

Through its involvement the Bank has already helped accelerate the private sector
participation process in METRO and will stimulate a thorough review and improvements
of sub-sector policies – particularly financial and modal integration - at the state and
municipal levels.

Project Description
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment
Construction of, provision of equipment for, and operation and maintenance of the line of
the SP Metro which will link the SP Metro’s Vila Sonia yard facility to the SP Metro’s

                                              39
Luz station (Line 4), consisting of about 12,800 meters of double underground track, 5
stations and 4 station shells, acquisition and installation of system-wide facilities
(including fixed installations for electrification), and acquisition and operation of 16 train
sets.

Part B: Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for: (1) the management oversight and supervision of
the carrying out of Part A of the Project; (2) the carrying out of a financial management
and cost recovery review (including recommendations on tariff structure) of the METRO
operations; and (3) for a follow-up project finance study on alternatives for private sector
participation in the carrying out of Part A of the Project.

Revised Components
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment Investment:
The Turnkey agreement allowed for possible modifications in the project (Clause “GCC
39 – Modificação das Instalações?) that were discussed and approved.
Significant component changes were:
    • Inclusion of Faria Lima station in Phase 1
    • Change in the construction method from Shields to NATM in parts of Lot 2
    • Executive project, supply and implementation of platform doors’ system (PSD)
        for the Phase 1 and Phase 2 stations
    • Executive project, production, supply and implementation of data transmission
        system (STD)
    • Executive project, production, supply and implementation of Collection and
        passangers system (SCAP) Line 4, phases 1 and 2, including Vila Sonia’s yard.
Executive project, supply and implementation of esteiras rolantes.Therefore, the revised
components encompass the delivery of 6 complete stations (Butantã, Pinheiros, Faria
Lima, Paulista, República e Luz), 4 shell stations (Morumbi, Fradique Coutinho, Oscar
Freire e Higienópolis), 1 maintenance yard and train parking at Vila Sonia station, 12,8
Km of double underground track, 13 (treze) ventilation wells and acquisition of 14 trains.
Phase 1 also includes the Operational Control Center (Centro Controle Operacional -
CCO) at Vila Sônia yard, and Electrification and Signalization of entire length.

There were no changes to the original components of Part B.

Experience acquired in the implementation of the project and results achieved
The results obtained from the implementation of Metro Line 4 Project can be considered
satisfactory. A 14-month delay for the beginning of the project, a judicial dispute
concerning one of the proposals (Lot 3) and a long expropriation process (due to a strike
in the judiciary) had to be overcome. From then on, Metro Line 4 project had a good
evolution in all different areas, including the civil works and the regulatory reforms
associated to it – 100% of the civil works were concluded, institutional studies were
completed and respective recommendations were implemented. The project was fully
compatible with ‘Operação Urbana da Faria Lima’. There are no outstading audits and
the financial management of the project can be considered satisfactory.


                                             40
Objectives ‘a’ (to improve the quality and long-term sustainability of urban transport in
the SPMR by interconnecting the existing subway, commuter rail and bus networks
through the construction of METRO's Line 4) and ‘b’ (to improve the accessibility of the
low-income population of the areas served by Line 4 to employment centers and health
and education facilities) of the project are being met in a satisfactory manner. With the
full operation of Phase 1 the main benefits for the population (listed in Annex 2) are
being achieved.

Objective ‘c’ (to seek private sector participation in the development of Line 4) is also
being achieved in a satisfactory manner. A Public-Private Partnership (PPP) is
complementing government’s investments in the expansion and enhancement of the
urban public transport system in the SPMR. The PPP agremement for Line 4 establishes
the concession of its commercial operations to a private agent (Consorcio Via Quatro –
CVA) for a term of 30 years. CVA will also be responsible for the investments for the
acquisition of the train fleet and other operational systems, such as signaling and control,
mobile telecommunication and supervision, and centralized control.

The infrastructure component presented satisfactory results. All stations for Phase 1 were
delivered (Paulista, Faria Lima, Butantã, Pinheiros and República) and are currently in
full operation, from 04:40am to 00:00am, with a fleet of 14 6-car trains. Technical
assistance services component also showed satisfactory results.

The technological innovations implemented in Line 4 represent one of the most
significant gains brought to the Metro system in São Paulo by the project. Innovations
that should be highlighted include:
• Signaling and rail control system based in digital radio communication CBTC-
    Communication Based Train Control;
• Automated driverless train operation;
• Platform doors in the stations that will only open for embarkment/disembarkment,
    avoiding passengers’ access to the tunnel.
• Trains equipped with internal security video cameras.

The most relevant lessons learned are based on events that had a very high impact on the
development and conclusion of the project:
• Scope Management: projects involving Turnkey agreements must be thoroughly
   studied and drafted in order to avoid significant modifications in its scope and, in
   consequence, changes in the contracted prices;
• Time Management: the expropriation process necessary for the implementation of the
   project must be concluded before the beginning of the civil works chronogram agreed
   with the constructing consortium. The government should avoid the risk of not
   meeting contractual deadlines as this may trigger indemnification rights to the
   consortium against the government;
• Environmental Licensing: a detailed schedule for obtaining environmental licenses
   must be prepared by the beginning of the works and followed on from then on. Any
   issues must be discussed and corrected immediately to avoid delays and price
   changes;

                                            41
•   Risks Management: ITIG’s Code of Practice for risk management of tunnel works
    must be observed. This considerably reduces risks connected to the conception and
    execution of subterranean works;
•   Follow up on Excavation Method: the conventional excavation method (NATM) may
    be safely applied to subterranean urban works, but it requires technical follow up and
    detailed analysis of instruments and mapping for the ongoing revision of the project;
•   Procurement Management: Projects must only be executed after previous approval
    from the Owner. Moreover, the Owner must have adequate capacity to verify, control
    and approve projects within contractual deadlines;
•   Defects Correction: the agreement between government and Consortium should
    include clauses that allow the government to demand proactive attitude from the
    Consortium to repair defects, as well as clauses that indicate measures to be taken in
    case a defect cannot be immediately repaired;
•   Agreement Penalty Fees: the government has to be stricter when requiring possible
    contractual penalty fees. This could avoid contractual breaches by contracted
    companies;
•   Safety Management (Project Management Institute (PMI) construction extension): the
    bidding process documents must contain strict rules and procedures concerning the
    safety of employees and population (identification of stakeholders and transparency
    for instance).

Institutional aspects:
The Secretary of Metropolitan Transport of the State of São Paulo (STMSP) is the main
Government agency responsible for the Project. METRO reports to the STMSP. The
Borrower is the State of São Paulo who will delegate the Project implementation to
METRO. Overall project oversight will be the responsibility of STMSP on behalf of the
State through an established Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that will oversee the
implementation of this Project and other ongoing projects, including Line 4 (Phase 1). In
addition, METRO will continue to have a Project Management Unit (PMU) which will be
in charge of the implementation of its respective components. The PMU is headed by a
Project Coordinator who reports directly to the Director in charge of the implementation
of the Project. The PMU is staffed with regular staff from METRO and supported by
Project Management Oversight Consultants (PMOC) in charge of providing technical
support in areas such as engineering, procurement, environment and financial
management. METRO has considerable experience with this PMU unit, acquired in
ongoing and/or previous Bank-financed projects.

Social and Environmental aspects:
Line 4 was the first METRO venture to be subject to the environmental legislation –
since the elaboration of Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Impact
Report (EIA-RIMA) to obtaining LP, LI and LO licenses. All the stages in this process
were accomplished within the applicable deadlines and did not cause any delay for the
works. Physical impacts inherent to this sort of work in an urban area (disposal of waste,
noise, ar pollution, demolitions etc.) were treated in a satisfactory way by monitoring and
mitigation plans previously established. Concerning social impacts, expropriations were
conduced based on evaluations prepared in advance. The final report on environmental

                                            42
evaluation and detailed resettlement plan were prepared according to World Bank’s
guidelines and approved by the METRO board of directors.

Implementation and results:
An initial loan agreements were signed between the São Paulo’s state government and the
IBRD (2002), as well as a co-financing agreement with the JBIC (2004), each of them in
the amount of US$ 209.0 million. These contracts had ending date on June 30, 2007. Due
to delays in the civil works schedule, contracts were closed only in March 31, 2011.

The consistent US Dollar devaluation since 2004 affected the project, as the financial
realization of the contract in Brazilian Reais is converted in US Dollars by the rate on the
date of use and the initial cost converted in US Dollars in the date in which the agreement
was signed - R$ 3,0257/USD. In this sense, the appreciation of the Brazilian Real
throughout Phase 1 implementation, associated to the agreements’ price correction, led to
an increase in the implementation costs (in Brazilian Reais) and decrease in the funding
source (in US Dollars). In order to bring back the initially estimated parity, two additional
loan agreements of US$95 million each were signed with the IBRD and the JBIC (2008
and 2010, respectively). In addition, the change in the construction method of the tunnel
for Lot 2 (from Shields to NATM) also impacted the project cost and chronogram. This
process is under dispute.

The most relevant reasons for the delay in concluding the project were: (i) delay in the
liberation of expropriated areas for the start of the civil works due to the strike in the
judiciary; (ii) strengthening of Consolata building’s foundations; (iii) problems with
expropriation of Kenji Isuka’s house; (iv) recuperation of contaminated areas; (v)
accident at Pinheiros station.

World Bank Participation
The financial resources were released according to the expected cash flow. The World
Bank team had an active role through frequent missions.

Borrower Participation
The government of the state of São Paulo, represented by its secretaries, acted in an agile
manner to enable financing and counterpart resources.

Execution Body
As the execution body, the METRO had a decisive role for the implementation of the
project.




                                             43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
None




                                    44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

IPT. Final Report – Investigation and Analysis of the collapse at Pinheiros Station in São
Paulo’s Metro Line 4. 2008.

São Paulo Metro (PMU). ‘Completion Report’. 2011.

São Paulo Metro (PMU). ‘Performance Monitoring Indicators’. 2012.

São Paulo Metro (PMU). ‘Report on Project Implementation’. Jan 2010 – Aug 2011.

São Paulo Metro (PMU). ‘Project Costs and Investment Analysis Report’. April 2012.

World Bank. Brazil: Quarterly Knowledge Report. April 2012.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (Phase 1), December 2001.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (Phase 2), March 2010.

World Bank. Loan Agreement 4646-BR, June 2002.

World Bank. Additional Loan Agreement 7635-BR, June 2008.

World Bank. Project Paper on an Additional Financing Loan, March 2008.

World Bank. ISRs and Aide-Memoires: 2001 – 2011.
.




                                           45
                                                 R.B. DE                GUYANA                 French
                                               VENEZUELA                                       Guiana
                                                                                 SURINAME       (Fr.)                                                        AT LA NT I C                                                              BRAZIL
                 C O L O M BI A                          Boa Vista                                                                                                                                           METROPOLITAN REGION
                                                                                                                                                              O CEA N
                                                               RORAIMA
                                                                                                      AMAP?                                                                                                     OF SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                     Macapá                                                                                                                    STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                              Belém                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                               Manaus                                                                                São Luís                                                                  STATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                  Fortaleza                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                     PAR?
                                                                                                                                      MARANHÃO               Teresina                       RIO GRANDE
                                               AMAZONAS                                                                                                                  CEAR?              DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Natal

                                                                                                                                                                                     PARA?BA        João
                                                                                                                                                       PIAUI                                        Pessoa
                                                       Porto Velho                                                                                                            PERNAMB              Recife
                          ACRE                                                                                                                                                        UCO
                                                                                                                                                                                               Maceió
                                  Rio Branco                                                                                 Palma
                                                   RONDÔNIA                                                                                                                                ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                                                                        Aracaju
                                                                                                                    TOCANTINS                                                         SERGIPE
                                                                                   M AT O                                                                   BAHIA
                  PE RU                                                          G R O S S O
                                                                                                                                                                                 Salvador

                                                                                     Cuiabá                                  F.D.
                                                                                                               BRAS?LIA
                                                                                                               BRAS?LIA
                                                 B O LI VI A                                                           Goiânia
                                                                                                          GOIAS                         MINAS GERAIS
                                                                                  MATO GROSSO
                                                                                    DO SUL                                                Belo                     ESP?RITO
                                                                                                                                      Horizonte                    SANTO
                                                                                            Campo
                                                                                            Grande                                                                  Vitória
                                                                                                              SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                            RIO DE                                                                                 BRAZIL
                                                                         PARAGUAY                                     São Paulo                             JANEIRO
                                       CHILE                                                         PARAN?
                                                                                                                                                   Rio de
                                                                                                                                                  Janeiro
                PAC IF IC                                                                                             Curitaba
                OC E AN                                                                                                                   Metropolitan Region
                                                                                                              STA CATARINA                of São Paulo
                                                                                                                        Florianópolis


                                                    A R GE N TI N A                    RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                              Porto Alegre
                                                                                         DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                            AT LA NT I C
FEBRUARY 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 36790
                                                                                                                                                             O CEA N                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                 URUGUAY                                                                                                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
          Map of the São Paulo Metropolitan Transport System




Metro
Line 4
Phases
1 and 2




                                 47
Alignment and Stations by Implementation Phase for Metro Line 4




                              48
