Document of
The World Bank                  FILE CO PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2524-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 3, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         -     Rupiah (Rp)
US$1                  =     Rp 625
Rp I                        US0.16
Rp 1 million          =     US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Syvtem
Metric                                           British/US
1 millimeter (mm)                 =     0.04 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                 =     0.39 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                       =     13.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)              =     35.28 cubic feet (cu ft )
1 kilometer (km)                  =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km )       =     0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    =     2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                             0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
=     0.26 US gallons (gal)
i kilogram (kg)                   =     2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)              =     2.204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS    -   National Development Planning Agency
CIPTA KARYA -   Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and
Urban Development (Ministry of Public Works)
DANIDA      -   Danish International Development Authority
DGH         -   Directorate General of Highways
DKI         -   Special Provincial Government of Jakarta
DPUP        -   Provincial Public Works Department
DWT         -   Dead Weight Ton
ERR         -   Economic Rate of Return
GDP         -   Gross Domestic Product
GOI         -   Government of Indonesia
MOC         -   Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism
MPW         -   Ministry of Public Works
RBO         -   Regional Betterment Office
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $130 million
Terms:          20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.9% p.a.
Project         The objectives of the project are to support and increase
Description:  effectiveness of the main components of Indonesia's Third
Plan highway development program (betterment works, bridge
replacements, and maintenance) and to strengthen the insti-
tutions for executing the program and for planning and
managing the transport sector as a whole. The project
includes: (a) construction of about 800 km of road better-
ment all over Indonesia and of about 4,000 m of bridge
replacements in Sumatera; (b) execution of programs to
improve highway activities in eight provincial public works
departments; (c) execution of a highway safety program;
(d) screening-feasibility studies of about 1,500 km of
further roads for betterment, and detailed engineering of
about 1,000 km selected from the foregoing to integrate these
processes fully into highway planning routines; (e) training
and other measures to strengthen Indonesia's highway author-
ities; (f) studies on the road transport industry; (g)
advisory assistance for transport planning for several
government agencies; and (h) measures to assist Indonesia's
consulting and construction industries.
The principal benefits of the project will be increased
economic and social development through reduced transport
costs and better mobility from improvements to infrastructure
and to sectoral institution and policies. The project faces
no special risks, although timely implementation will depend
will depend on an expanded management capability. The project
therefore includes concrete measures to strengthen the mana-
gerial capacities of the Directorate General of Highways.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                                    Local  Foreign  Total
Costs:                                                     ---- ($ million) ----
Road construction (incl. supervision)  21.8    47.4    69.2
Bridge construction (incl. design and
supervision)                              9.6     8.0    17.6
Improvement programs for provincial
public works departments (incl.
technical support and training)          16.7    38.1    54.8
Execution of highway safety programs
(incl. studies)                          0.2      3.7      3.9
Studies and design of further roads         1.8     0.8      2.6
Management assistance for
Directorate General of Highways
(incl. overseas training and
monitoring)                               0.4     2.7      3.1
Studies and technical
assistance                                0.5     1.9      2.4
Support to domestic consulting
and construction industries              0.4      1.6      2.0
Physical contingencies                      5.2    10.4    15.6
Price contingencies                       43.3    24.3    67.6
Subtotal I                            99.9   138.9   238.8
Land acquisition                            9.9        -     9.9
UNDP Program                                0.2      0.6     0.8
Subtotal II                           10.1      0.6    10.7
Total cost of Project (I & II)    110.0   139.5   249.5
Financing:         The proposed loan of $130 million equivalent would cover
52% of the total project cost; the remaining 48% or about
$120 million would be provided by the Government, except for
about $0.6 million from UNDP.
Estimated                                       $ millions
Disbursements:      Bank        FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
Annual        14.3    37.7    39.3    28.4    10.3
Cumulative   14.3    52.0    91.3   119.7   130.0
Rate of Return:   Over 20%.
Appraisal
Report:          No. 2260-IND, dated May 1, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $130 million to help
finance a Fifth Highway Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
This report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expected slow-down in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net-exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report, Third Urban Develop-
ment Project (No. P-2440-IND), circulated under cover of R79-1, dated
January 4, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on January 16,
1979.



- 2 -
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era,
Indonesia's long-term development prospects have been significantly
enhanced by the Government's successful population policies which
have already contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%)
reduction of fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade.
These crucially important demographic developments will, in due
course, particularly after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced
and declining rates of growth of the labor force. Declining labor
force growth rates and the prospects of declining income elastici-
ties of demand for food justify the hope and expectation that with
sound policies, Indonesia can and will eventually - possibly within
the next two decades - overcome the severe poverty and food security
problems that still plague the country today. The solution of
these fundamental problems through the pursuit of a pervasive
employment-oriented development strategy would set the economy
firmly on a long-term growth path towards much higher levels of
social and economic development involving all Indonesians. One of
the key components of such a strategy would be to aim at a high
rate of labor-intensive manufacturing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the other islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely
poor: in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 mil-
lion Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices
and exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remark-
ably high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971
and October 1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a
very high rate and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the
rate of open unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than
population in the relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force
participation rates, from 50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was
observed. Thus, a substantial part of the increased per capita consumption
levels is believed to have been related to increased labor force participa-
tion and declining dependency ratios.
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas (preliminary estimate for 1977: $300).



- 3 -
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over
7% p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricul-
tural sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating
small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor
productivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia,
by the stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in
the world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which
absorbed the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad
picture of rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many
respects, thus reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental
employment has been of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        M4uch progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is
expected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in
1974; dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary
education appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program
has been introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who
never attended school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others
who left school without completing primary education (a further 22 million).
Indonesia's adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher
than in India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in
Thailand (82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in
levels of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist,
but differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively
small.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained
underutilized due to personnel shortage and a range of other factors,
including popular preference for traditional health care services in several
areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II) which ended in March 1979, are fully met, over 100 million
Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in 1979.
Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory, especially
in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improvements in
water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed through
Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank Group,
have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded urban
areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living con-
ditions of the urban poor are needed.



- 4-
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per
US dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
non-oil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts
in the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing
of this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effect of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues
in local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also
increase as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in
terms of rupiahs should improve strongly. While the recent devaluation will
generally tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs
to be placed on the importance of developing effective support services and
of reducing administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost increasing
factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already
been taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a
wide range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key consump-
tion items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from
the budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary
control exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-
induced inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the
need to contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for
additional credit to promote new private investment in line with the struc-
tural objectives of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus
in fiscal 1979/80 almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing
the effect of a sudden sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion
following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probabil-
ity that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign
exchange would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the
next few years. Although it is too early to make more than a very prelim-
inary and speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports
and exports, there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of
payments will become a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however,
are foreseen in the immediate future; the short-term export response, in
particular, is likely to be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately,
changes in the size and structure of imports and exports will be strongly
influenced by the effect that the devaluation will have on the overall growth
performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968-77, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food calorie



- 5 -
production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively./l
These growth rates reflect a growing import-dependence on rice, sugar, wheat
and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance of maize,
cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of stagnating
or slow growing rice production due to a combination of poor weather and
pest problems, 1978 showed an unprecedented increase in output (over
10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977,
are still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and to
swamp drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential from increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and from improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall
GNP growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is
considerably less than the average growth performance of the economy during
the past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output
growth, employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the
period 1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could
still be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around
3% p.a. The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5%
p.a. for the Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started
in April 1979.
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.7%.



- 6 -
16.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to
post-oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of
production and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed
on agriculture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most
abundant and inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected
to facilitate the structural changes that are needed. With improved incen-
tives for an employment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment
and institutional support services for agriculture and small industries, it
should in due course be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the
economy to at least 7% or 8%, which would be a major help in accelerating the
further elimination of poverty.
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. I-ost of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be
reflected in future debt service payments.
18.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approximately
met. As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $500 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached.
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



19.       The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obli-
gations.  The debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%.  Although
the November 15 Rupiah devaluation will provide a one time revenue windfall,
the Government will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues
over the coming years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment
already reached is to be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious
in increasing current expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope
for reducing them further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with
the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government
salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of which is
development related. In view of the expected increase in the pressure on
public sector resources, the devaluation notwithstanding, a limited measure
of local cost financing is considered justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
20.      As of February 28, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits
totalling $680.8 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,903.0 million.
IFC investments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and
IFC Investments as of February 28, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the qual-
ity of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
/1 Substantially unchanged from President's Report, Third Urban Development
Project (No. P-2440-IND), circulated under cover of R79-1, dated
January 4, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on January 16,
1979.



the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighbor-
hood improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutri-
tion. A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate
and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power
and transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a
telecommunications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group
has assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its develop-
ment programs and projects through four technical assistance credits and a
loan for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing
labor force and increase agriculiure production, particularly of food crops.
Efforts to increase employment through programs directed towards improving
the incomes of the poor and their living standards are expected to be one of
the major objectives of the Third Five-Year Plan. While several of these
programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some
time before they are ready for implementation. However, as part of this new
focus, a small enterprise development project designed to increase non-agri-
cultural employment in rural areas and small towns, has already been approved
by the Executive Directors. With respect to agriculture development, projects
are being prepared to further improve and expand research and extension
services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder
rubber and coconut plantations, assist in watershed management and village
development, and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java
for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition to the family planning
program, which continues to have high priority, other areas of particular
importance for Bank Group assistance will be improvement of urban services
through construction of urban water supply systems and further expansion of
neighborhood improvement programs, and improvement and expansion of higher
education particularly of engineers, au(ountants and agriculture specialists,
as well as primary and nonformal education. Ftnally, Bank Group financing
continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastructure
rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in tr;isn,,ort and power, which will
continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development. The proposed
fifth highway project is another step in implementing these programs.
Compared to past lending activities, many of these projects and programs
reflect the shift of emphasis in Government's development objectives from
rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and
employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
23.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968 and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in



- 9 -
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without
impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
24.       The proposed loan is the seventh lending operation presented to
the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this fiscal year to $412 million. Projects for rural development,
transmigration, provision of industrial financing through a development
finance company (BAPINDO), water supply, and power are expected to be ready
for presentation in the next few months.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Role and Performance
25.       Improved transportation is indispensable to the continued growth of
Indonesia's economy, to balanced expansion of its many regions and to improved
equity of all classes of the population, especially those in remote areas and
the very poor. Over the past decade, transport investments have grown quickly
along with overall investment and have represented between 10% and 15% of total
public investment. The quickening pace of economic life has resulted in even
more rapid progress in transportation services. The geographic coverage of
services has expanded, frequency has increased and quality, particularly
transit time, has greatly improved.
26.       The developments of the past decade have changed the size and
structure of the transport sector. Total volume of motor transport rose
sharply as the motor vehicle fleet grew between 10% and 20% yearly over the
past ten years and the number of roads in fair to good condition increased
rapidly as well. A similar trend occurred in aviation. Concurrently, rail-
ways and shipping are becoming carriers of bulk commodities, as Indonesia
is expanding plantation crops, such as palm oil, and is building large new
industries, such as fertilizer and cement. Thus, transport modes are becom-
ing more specialized and highways are becoming the predominant mode in most
areas. The Government's transport programs have reflected the preponderant
position of highways, as has the Bank Group's lending for transport in
Indonesia.
27.       The Bank Group has assisted transport development through a series
of credits and loans for transportation aggregating $416.5 million. These
included $206 million, both for rehabilitation and upgrading of roads, under
four highway projects; $48 million to rehabilitate railways; $32 million to



- 10 -
expand Indonesia's most important port at Tanjung Priok (Jakarta); $62.5 mil-
lion for rehabilitation and expansion of Indonesia's domestic marine fleet;
and $68 million to rationalize and expand fertilizer distribution. In tandem
with the broad strategy of the Bank and Indonesia's development plans, the
Bank Group assistance initially concentrated on rehabilitation, but gradually
shifted to betterment and expansion projects; it was designed to cover all
principal modes of transport and to foster an intermodal approach to trans-
portation which is particularly appropriate to the geographic configuration
of Indonesia.
Major Problems and Strategy
28.       Despite substantial improvements, severe deficiencies remain.  The
backlog of investments has only partly been made up, and additional transport
capacity is needed for economic expansion. Many remote regions and the
rural parts of Java are still underserviced. Maintenance also needs further
improvement. Transport operations could be made less costly through more
efficient equipment and less burdensome regulations.
29.       The Third Five-Year Plan which began on April 1, 1979 outlines
Indonesia's strategy for the transport sector. Efficient transport services
continue to be a central Government policy. There will also be continuing
emphasis on expanding services to all regions of the country, on removing
bottlenecks to agricultural and industrial production and to exports, and on
the improved use of resources in the transport sector. Rehabilitation and
upgrading will take priority over new construction. In addition, there will
be a new stress on providing services to disadvantaged groups, particularly
in the rural areas and the urban slums and on fostering traditional, energy-
saving transport, such as bicycles and sail boats. Unnecessary regulations
are to be eliminated and the public sector will offer services only if private
operators do not provide them adequately. The investment program in transport
for the Third Five-Year Plan is Rp 2.99 trillion or $4.8 billion (roughly 15%
of total Plan investments). Roads and road transport will continue to absorb
the preponderant share of investment (about one half), but with an increased
emphasis on rural roads.
30.       Although there are some differences regarding a few particular in-
vestments and regarding the scope of subsidized transport services, the Bank
Group generally agrees with and supports the Government's strategy, particularly
its emphasis on low cost investments and maintenance, improved service to
rural areas and increased use of cost-based pricing. The Government strategy
was discussed at length during negotiations, as part of a continuous and
substantially intensified dialogue with the Government (paras. 36-39).
31.       Review of the recent Third Development Plan indicates that Government
overall strategy in road transport is in agreement with Bank lending strategy
for this subsector (paras. 53 to 55). The proposed loan, therefore, is based on
the overall highway program for the Third Plan. The appraisal has concentrated
on an evaluation of the program, of Indonesia's highway institutions and of
the techniques they use for project selection. The loan thus adopts some of



- 11 -
the techniques of sector lending and should be regarded as a further significant
step toward such lending. This approach is given support by the competent
performance of Indonesia's highway authorities under previous operations
(paras. 50 and 51).
32.       The Bank Group will continue its broad support for Indonesia's
transport programs. While the largest share will be for roads, Bank Group
assistance will maintain a broad sectoral approach and will include increased
stress on social concerns. In addition to the proposed project for major
roads, possible future operations include projects for rural roads, secondary
and small ports, service to remote areas (such as transmigration areas),
transport of coal from mines in South Sumatera (as part of a mining project)
and regional transport in North Sumatera and further projects for the road
system which would progressively move toward sector lending. Since much of
the success in translating transport policies into action programs will depend
on institution-building and decentralization efforts, the proposed project and
future assistance would emphasize the development of a sound institutional
framework. The proposed project would also emphasize the development of the
local skills needed to plan and implement large investment programs and to
operate complex transport systems (paras. 46, 47 and 48).
Transport Planning and Policy Issues
33.       Planning and Policy Formulation.  Responsibility for planning and
policy formulation in the transport sector is divided at the national level
between two ministries: the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which includes the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) for roads, and the Ministry of Transport,
Communications, and Tourism (MOC), for other modes. Investment proposals are
formulated at the modal level in these ministries and then submitted by them
to the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) for review and approval.
Project analysis can be further improved and made less dependent on outside
experts. The Government, with Bank Group assistance under several projects,
including the proposed one, is introducing several measures to improve the
process of project selection, analysis and review. A training course for
transport specialists will be given in Indonesia, on a repetitive basis, in
collaboration with the Bank's Economic Development Institute.
34.       The Government is also seeking to improve planning within the major
modes. While the flow of data on transport remains irregular and limited,
MOC, jointly with DGH, is making a national origin-destination survey to
record all transport flows. This work is assisted under the Fourth Highway
Project (para. 51). Long-range plans are currently under preparation for
several of the modes, with assistance from UNDP and under various Bank Group
transport projects.
35.       Some intermodal planning takes place through informal coordination
among the individual agencies, with the involvement of BAPPENAS in selected
cases. In addition, a number of intermodal commodity transport studies have
been made or are being planned: for fertilizer, steel, coal, estate products,



- 12 -
with Bank Group assistance, and for cement with Canadian assistance. Despite
these significant developments, further work will still be needed, particularly
in the planning of river transport and in overall data collection, before
Indonesia has the prerequisites for comprehensive transport planning and
coordination. Accordingly, the proposed project includes funds for the
employment of transport experts by MOC to assist in these areas.
36.       In addition to the above institution-building efforts to improve
project, modal and intermodal planning, the Bank Group has gradually intensified
its policy dialogue with the Government, particularly regarding the role of
the transport sector in resource mobilization. During negotiations, a broad
set of policy issues was discussed and a framework for further dialogue has
been established.  Areas of particular concern are cost recovery, petroleum
pricing, and road user charges.
37.       Cost Recovery.  The resource and foreign exchange constraints,
which are expected to grow increasingly critical over Indonesia's medium-term
future, will become especially noticeable in the transport sector. Tradi-
tionally the Government has favored cheaply priced transportation by main-
taining transport rates of publicly owned transport enterprises (railways,
shipping, ports, buses) at levels which do not cover full costs, by providing
cash subsidies or free goods to these enterprises, by furnishing major inputs
to the transport sector, particularly capital and fuel, below economic cost,
and by maintaining lower taxes on transportation (railways, shipping, ports
and commercial road transport pay almost no taxes). During negotiations,
the Government indicated that this policy is being moderated by moving to a
cost-based system of pricing to encourage restraint in the use of resources
and to generate revenues for investment. Since then, the Government has
announced significant tariff increases for road, rail and air transport.
38.       Petroleum Pricing.  In addition to revising the financial ob-
jectives of the sector and its main publicly owned entities, the Government
is examining reforms in the price of petroleum and the taxation of road
transport. Petroleum products have been sold for several years below world
market prices and the Government is currently providing a large cash subsidy
to compensate the Government-owned oil company for the costs of producing and
selling petroleum products in Indonesia. The Government is well aware that
the subsidies for petroleum (both economic and budgetary) create major
distortions in the economy. Because of the possible inflationary impact of
the recent devaluation, the Government is proceeding cautiously in raising
petroleum prices, particularly as kerosene is one of the basic commodities in
the consumer price index. However, as a step towards reducing these subsidies,
the Government has recently announced an increase, averaging about 32%, for
most domestic oil products.
39.       Road User Charges.  The Government is presently considering a
recently completed study of road user charges, financed under the Fourth
Highway Project. Although the study indicates that road user charges, as a
whole, were at least equal to expenditures on roads, it also recommends
expansion of charges on road users, particularly commercial vehicles, where
collections did not cover the Government's expenditures on roads. These



- 13 -
results are particularly significant, as the road sector is much less heavily
taxed than in most other countries, and thus, represents an unexploited tax
potential for Indonesia. The Government now wishes to determine the best way
of implementing these recommendations, and consultants, to be financed under
the proposed loan, will assist in this work. The Government agreed during
negotiations to take appropriate action towards putting concrete recommenda-
tions for increased taxes on road transport into effect (Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement).
Non-Highway Modes - Role and Performance
40.       Indonesia makes significant use of all modes of transport.  The
past and planned development of individual modes and the Bank Group's
assistance in support of this development, reflect the great diversity in
various regions of Indonesia, as well as the widely disparate patterns of
economic activity. Although railways are concentrated on Java, there are
also some lines in Sumatera to serve estates and mineral extraction. River
transport is characteristic of underdeveloped areas, such as Kalimantan and
West Irian. Roads are found in all regions, while aviation and shipping tie
together the thousands of islands in the archipelago.
41.       Railways.  Despite substantial investment, railway freight traffic
has declined in recent years (by about 20%) and the financial position of the
railways has weakened sharply. For 1977, the operating ratio reached 170%.
The disappointing performance of the railways reflects a number of factors,
including delays in improving operations, an excessive number of personnel,
and weaknesses in the competitive position of some services, particularly on
Java. An Overall Plan for the next five to ten years has been drafted under
the Bank's Railway Project (Ln. 1005-IND) and the Government is preparing a
paper on its strategy for the future of the railways. The Bank Group is
expected to continue its dialogue with the Government in this area. It is
likely that the railways will continue to play an economic role in particular
areas and services, such as coal transport in South Sumatera, and long
distance movements of passengers and bulk commodities on Java.
42.       Ports and Shipping.  The Government's policy has emphasized in-
creasing efficiency of marine services through rehabilitation of ports and
vessels. As a result, operations, particularly in major ports, have improved
greatly, and substantial traffic increases have been accommodated. However,
poor vessel utilization and low financial returns continue to characterize
the shipping industry, partly due to slow turn around in Indonesia's smaller
ports. The Government is therefore initiating a study of these ports,
financed under the Tanjung Priok Port Project (Ln. 1337-IND).
Highways and Road Transport
43.       Role and Performance.  The extra-urban-public road network totals
more than 300,000 km, including a network of village roads, with an estimated
length of more than 200,000 km. The public roads above the village road level
total about 100,000 km and are classified as "national" (about 11,000 km),
"provincial" (about 28,000 km), and "district" (about 61,000 km), indicating



- 14 -
the administrative level with responsibility for the roads. The network of
usable roads is inadequate, particularly outside Java, and road conditions,
though improved on many arterial links, remain poor over much of the remain-
ing system. The network also needs further expansion to accommodate the
demand for road transport which has grown rapidly during the last five years.
The growth rate for truck traffic has averaged about 15% annually between
1972 and 1977, with somewhat lower rates in Java, compared with the other main
islands. Passenger traffic has grown annually by about 11% to 14% for buses
and about 20% (Sumatera) to 25% (Java) for cars (including smaller public
vehicles).
44.       Administration of the public highway network is carried out by the
public works agencies of the various tiers of Government. At the national
level, DGH has primary responsibility for road matters; road agencies at
lower levels are, respectively, provincial public works departments (Dinas
Pekerjaan Umum Propinsi - DPUP), district public works offices and variously
named works agencies below the district level. Because Indonesia is a
unitary state, road agencies at all levels of the Government are part of a
common system under the control of the Central Government and under the
technical leadership of DGH.
45.       Capacity of DGH.  The Indonesian roads program expanded rapidly
after the oil price rise in 1973 and further expansion is scheduled during the
Third Five-Year Plan period. The increasing volume of road works has imposed
strains on all levels of the highway administration. In addition to its
highway responsibilities, DGH has been given substantial responsibilities for
the implementation of the land clearing and road construction activities
under the ambitious transmigration program. DGH has been aware of the
problems facing its expanding programs, and has demonstrated energy and
ingenuity in solving them. It has commissioned, with Bank Group assistance,
a series of studies to analyze manpower and technical constraints to enlarging
the roads program. It has determined that decentralization was essential to
accomplishment of the program and created Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs)
to design and supervise road betterment works; the initial four RBOs were
partly financed by the Fourth Highway Project (para. 51). DGH instituted
systematic procedures for identification, analysis, and design of road
betterment and the Bank Group has given substantial technical advice on this
effort. DGH has implemented training programs to overcome shortages in
critical skills.
46.       While the Bank fully supports the new strategy of road improvement
programs under the Third Development Plan, which emphasizes decentralization
and spread of low-cost improvements on a much wider network, the Bank continues
to follow closely the capacity of DGH to implement its expanded programs.
DGH proposes to institute a series of additional measures to expand its
capacity and respond to the new challenges. The Bank is broadening its
dialogue and reorienting its support to reinforce DGH institution-building
efforts. The project integrates road planning methodologies into DGH routines
and provides technical assistance for training, management and systems
development, and for decentralization programs. The project constitutes a
step toward sector lending and it provides technical assistance for studies



- 15 -
which are designed to establish further policy guidance that would permit the
orderly development of the sector and the translation of general policies
into action programs. An improvement program for road operations in one
province (West Sumatera) has been substantially prepared and is under review
by the Bank, and submission and Bank approval of the programs of other
provinces are made conditions of disbursement (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the
Loan Agreement). Direct technical assistance to the provincial public works
departments is expected to facilitate decentralization and further expansion
of DGH capacity, and hence provide the basis for future sector lending.
47.       Use of Consultants by DGH.  Despite substantial efforts by DGH to
expand and upgrade its staff, DGH must rely heavily on consultants for
planning, design and supervision of road works and, due to the shortage of
trained Indonesians, foreign consultants will still carry a substantial part
of this load. However, DGH is examining the possibility of reducing the
costs of foreign experts by hiring them directly instead of through firms.
DGH has also taken several measures to assist Indonesian consultants.
Foreign firms are encouraged to associate with local firms and under the
Fourth Highway Project (para. 51), special agreements were made between
the associated firms to increase the transfer of technical and managerial
skills. The Fourth Highway Project also provided for a survey by DGH of the
local highway consulting industry and more intensive work will be undertaken
in connection with the construction industry study under the proposed project
and under a more general study of the Indonesian consulting industry which
the Bank Group is initiating, possibly with help from UNDP. Finally, DGH
intends to assist local firms by surveying their manpower and other needs, by
arranging for training, and by providing them with individual foreign experts
who would work as regular employees of the firms, to train indigenous manage-
ment. This scheme would be assisted under the proposed loan. These actions
should help to reduce substantially the need for foreign consulting firms,
over the medium term.
48.       Highway Maintenance.  Maintenance of national and provincial roads
is executed by the DPUPs with funds supplied from the central budget.
Maintenance operations need to be improved, particularly as the investment in
highways grows. The DPUPs also will assume increasing responsibility for
construction under DGH's decentralization policy. DGH is, therefore, sponsor-
ing intensive studies of individual DPUPs and formulating improvement programs,
designed to match the needs of each DPUP. These actions will be supported
under the proposed loan.
49.       Rural Roads.  Indonesia has 246 districts, each with its own public
works service. As DGH develops improvement programs for selected DPUPs, it
also plans to prepare parallel programs for the district public works organ-
izations in those provinces. A pilot study covering four districts in
Yogyakarta Province has been completed by consultants, financed under the
Fourth Highway Project. The study suggests that there is enormous scope for
improving rural road operations throughout Indonesia at the subprovincial
level, and that a national program is needed which is directed to these



- 16 -
operations. Accordingly, the Bank is examining the possibility of a
separate rural roads project to finance national improvement programs for
rural roads.
Experience under Previous Bank Group Financed Highway Projects
50.       Bank Group lending for highways in Indonesia has been adapted to
the evolving needs of the highway system. The First Highway Project for
$28 million equivalent (Credit 154-IND) helped restore communications in
Indonesia after a long period of neglect, by providing equipment and materials
for rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of roads. The Second and Third Highway
Projects supported the next phase of Indonesia's road program: construction
of selected major links in the more remote areas of the country. The Second
Highway Project for $34 million (Credit 260-IND) was used primarily to help
rebuild a section of the Trans-Sumatera Highway in an area which has since
become a major site for transmigration and is scheduled for development under
the proposed Second Transmigration Project. The Third Highway Project for
$14 million (Credit 388-IND) helped finance reconstruction of a road to a new
irrigation area in Sulawesi. It also included an important training component,
which initiated courses and set up a nationwide training system for highway
personnel, and studies and design of road improvements subsequently financed
under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 51). The construction element under
the Second Highway Project was completed in 1977 and under the Third Highway
Project in December 1978. While the second project had relatively small
delays and cost overruns, the third project had significant delays (mobili-
zation problems in a very remote area and unusually wet weather) and in-
creased construction costs (due to underestimate of quantities and sharp
price increases after the oil price rise).
51.       The Fourth Highway Project for $130 million (Loan 1236-IND)
represented a new departure in several ways. The project (a) sponsored the
establishment of four regional RBOs (para. 45); (b) supported a large-scale
and complex program of major construction projects primarily for the better-
ment of existing roads; (c) included assistance to strengthen virtually all
functions of DGH; (d) helped initiate studies of other institutions concerned
with highways such as provincial and district public works agencies, and
consultants and contractors engaged in highway works (paras. 47, 48 and 49);
and (e) provided for studies of highway laws, road user charges, and vehicle
weights and dimensions regulations. The fourth project responded to the
sudden increase in DGH's betterment program which was made possible by the
new funds available to Indonesia after the oil price rise in 1973. The
project contributed not only by providing matching funds for construction,
but also by helping DGH cope with its expanded workload. Over 1,200 km of
road betterments have been put under contract, with some of these nearing
completion by the middle of 1979. Positive changes have also been effected
in planning, design, budgeting, and control procedures of DGH. Because of
the multiplicity of contracts, some delays were encountered in awarding
some contracts causing a slower rate of progress and disbursement than
scheduled.



- 17 -
During negotiations for the proposed loan, assurances were obtained that
procedural and staffing improvements were being implemented, and similar
delays are therefore not expected under the proposed loan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The proposed project was identified and prepared by the Government
of Indonesia, assisted by consultants. The project was appraised in May and
June 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2260-IND, dated May 1, 1979),
based on the findings of the mission and subsequent discussions in Washington
and the field, is being circulated separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in January
and February 1979 with a Government team led by Mr. Suryatin, Director
General of Highways.
Third Five-Year Plan Highway Development Program
53.       The project supports key elements in the Third Plan Highway Develop-
ment Program (April 1979 to March 1984). This Program continues the emphasis
of the Second Plan Program on low-cost, quick-return betterment schemes which
are intended to minimize the demands on the public treasury by gradually
improving the national and provincial road network so that it can be kept
serviceable by routine and periodic maintenance only. The betterment component
also encompasses the permanent restoration of routes which have become
unusable, usually in remote areas. A bridge replacement component in the
Program is continued, at a significantly expanded scale from the previous
Plan; it aims to overcome a large backlog of bridges which have collapsed, or
are in dangerous condition, and replacement of which will greatly increase
mobility, at modest cost. The proposed project provides finance for some of
the new starts on betterment and bridge replacements in the first two years
of the Plan.
54.       The Third Five-Year Plan introduces two novel features regarding
road operations. It increases the programming responsibility of DGH with
regard to road funds allocated to the provinces and districts from the
budget of the Ministry of Home Affairs and it provides an addition for
district roads to DGH's own budget, which had previously only financed
national and provincial roads. The effect of these innovations is to place
increased emphasis on maintenance and support works and on the rural road
system. The proposed project includes finance for maintenance and support
works (deferred maintenance) through assistance to DPUP improvement programs.
Maintenance operations, if done properly, are highly cost-effective and have
a significant potential for creating permanent jobs. Planned Bank Group
financing for rural roads would provide external support for DGH's new rural
road operations. The increased responsibility of DGH in programming road
funds outside its own budget should help to rationalize and improve the
technical quality of road works, particularly at the lower levels of Government.
DGH is working out in detail how it will discharge its new responsibilities



- 18 -
through further decentralization. The Bank endorses the new initiatives of
the Third Plan, including low-cost improvements, emphasis on maintenance, and
rural roads. The institutional support provided to the Indonesian highway
authorities under the proposed project will help overcome complex implementation
issues which must be solved.
55.       Allocations for roads in the DGH budget and in other budgets which
will be subject to DGH programming aggregate to about Rp 2,260 billion, of
which DGH's own budget is Rp 1,670 billion. The largest single item in the
overall allocation for roads is for maintenance and support works (about
30%), while the largest single item in the DGH budget is for betterment
(about 37%). The overall allocations for roads, as well as DGH's own
Development Program, thus reflect the Government's concern, which the Bank
endorses, for low cost solutions and for spreading development and its
benefits to all areas of the country and to all layers of society, including
the absolute poor.
Project Strategy
56.       The objectives of the project are to support and make more
effective the basic thrust of the DGH Program (betterment works, bridge
replacements, and maintenance), to strengthen the institutions responsible
for executing the Program and for planning and managing the transport sector
as a whole, and to improve sectoral policies. This project represents a
further step towards sector lending and includes new priority activities and
sectorwide institution-building and policy dialogue. During negotiations,
overall transport policy issues were discussed in detail and a common under-
standing was reached on a sector policy framework which covered, among other
things, pricing, cost recovery, user charges, investment, and institution-
building policies. The project emphasizes the development of analytical and
administrative techniques, which will be applicable to the overall Program
beyond those construction programs financed by the Bank, and which would
make DGH increasingly self-sufficient. Review of these techniques provided
a principal focus for the Bank's appraisal, rather than the evaluation of
individual investments. Bank assistance will thus also facilitate aid from
other lenders. The project will also strengthen the country's highway
agencies, as well as other Government organizations concerned with transport,
such as MOC. In addition, it will help the Indonesian highway consulting and
construction industries, whose work is essential to the success of the
Program.
57.       The Bank Group has worked closely with DGH in the elaboration of
important elements in the DGH Program. The procedures for screening, analysis,
and design of road betterment and bridge replacements were initiated by DGH,
with continuous dialogue with the Bank Group. Similar joint efforts were
applied to DGH management problems and to such issues as vehicle weights and
dimensions. The Bank Group's assistance has emphasized economy in design and
execution of the work, as well as due attention to social aspects. The
proposed project will require continued close collaboration between DGH and
other Government agencies and the Bank Group over a broad range of DGH
activities, an approach which may be considered an intermediate step toward
sector lending.



- 19 -
Project Description
58.       The project consists of:
(a) support of physical works on Indonesia's highways through:
(i)  construction and supervision of about 800 km of road improve-
ments throughout Indonesia and about 4,000 m (one-lane
equivalent) of bridge replacements in Sumatera; screening-
feasibility studies of about 6,000 m (one-lane equivalent)
of bridge replacements; and detailed engineering of about
4,000 m therefrom (as the basis for the foregoing 4,000 m of
construction);
(ii) execution of DPUP improvement programs in eight provinces,
with primary emphasis on maintenance, including procurement of
equipment and support works of a capital nature, and technical
support services and training; and
(b) strengthening of sectoral institutions and improving sectoral
policies through:
(i)  execution of a highway safety program, including purchase of
highway safety equipment;
(ii) screening-feasibility studies of about 1,500 km of further
roads for betterment and detailed engineering of about
1,000 km of roads selected from the foregoing to fully
integrate these processes into highway planning routines;
(iii) studies, training and other measures to strengthen Indonesia's
highway authorities;
(iv) studies on selected aspects of the road transport industry,
including road-user charges;
(v)  advisory assistance for transport planning to the MOC, the
Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban
Development (Cipta Karya) and the Special Provincial Government
of Jakarta (DKI); and
(vi) measures to assist the Indonesian consulting and construction
industry.
59.       Details of these components are as follows:
(a)  Physical Works.  The appraisal of this component was based on a
review of priorities within the DGH Program and on an analysis of
evaluation methodologies used by DGH and of representative samples
of individual works (para. 65). Works to be financed will be
selected subsequently based on these methodologies. The DPUP
improvement programs will be based on a model developed for



- 20 -
the DPUP of West Sumatera. Each program will span five years
and will include physical targets and detailed plans for improved
maintenance and other principal DPUP activities. Bank finance
under the proposed loan and the Fourth Highway Project would cover
not more than 10% of eApenditures under DGH's Program in tLhe next
three fiscal years, and less thereafter.
(b) Strengthening of Institutions and Improving Policies. The project
emphasizes the broad spread of improved highway technologies not
only throughout DGH but also to DPUPs and Indonesian consultants
and contractors. Better management and training are stressed to
achieve rapid progress to self-sufficiency. Planning is to be
made more effective both within DGH and other transport agencies.
The project also seeks to formulate and implement improved policies
on road transport to ensure that this subsector develops in accord-
ance with the Government's economic and social criteria. Other
external agencies that will collaborate in these efforts include
the Danish International Development Authority in development of
the Indonesian construction industry, and UNDP, in highway planning.
Cost and Financing
60.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies,
is about $250 million equivalent. The cost estimate includes physical
contingencies of 10% on all items and price contingencies of 43%. For
construction, price contingencies are 7% p.a. for foreign component, and for
local component, 1979, 30%; 1980, 20%; 1981, 15%; 1982, 15%; and 1983, 10%.
For services and equipment, price contingencies-are 7% p.a. The foreign
exchange component is $140 million equivalent, or 56%, and will be financed
under the proposed loan to the extent of $130 million. Detailed cost estimates
are given in the Loan and Project Summary. The foreign exchange .component of
the cost of road improvement works has been estimated at 70%, and of bridge
replacements, at 45%. The Government would be responsible for financing the
local cost component and a small part of the foreign cost component and has
confirmed its ability to do so from its budgetary resources. UNDP will also
contribute $0.6 million.
Execution
61.       DGH will be responsible for carrying out most project activities,
except for the road safety program, the road transport studies and the
advisors to MOC, Cipta Karya, and DKI. The executing agencies will be
assisted by consultants in supervision of construction and in various studies
to be undertaken under the project. The estimated cost per man-month of
consultants' services including related equipment, materials, travel (foreign
and local) and allowances, is about $3,000 for a local consultant and ranges
between $8,000 and $9,000 for a foreign consultant. The estimated man-month
of local consultants is about 2000 and for foreign consultants about 1750.
The bulk of the work will be handled by DGH and, as explained in paras. 45 to
47, DGH is expected to manage the project effectively with the assistance
provided under the proposed loan.
Procurement and Disbursements
62.       Contracts for road improvements and bridge replacements (if the
contract is for more than $1 million equivalent) will be awarded on the basis



- 21 -
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guide-
lines for Procurement," subject to the 7-1/2% preference for Indonesian
firms. Contracts for bridge replacements valued at $1 million equivalent or
less will be awarded in accordance with local tendering rules satisfactory to
the Bank. Support works will be executed by force account. Equipment will
be procured through contracts awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement."
63.       Disbursement from the loan will be made over five years on the
basis of:
(a) 50% of the total cost of construction of betterment works;
(b) 45% of the total cost of construction of bridge replacements;
(c) 35% of the costs of support works;
(d)  (equipment other than vehicles):  100% of the c.i.f. cost of
imported equipment; or the ex-factory price, excluding identifiable
taxes and duties, of locally manufactured equipment; or 65% of
the total cost of imported and locally purchased equipment;
(vehicles): 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported vehicles or 40%
of the delivered price of locally procured vehicles;
(e) 100% of the foreign exchange costs or 60% of the total costs of
consultants' services, at the Government's option; and
(f) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of overseas training of staff
(through fellowships).
A disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Benefits and Economic Returns
64.       The proposed project supports the basic objectives of the DGH
program. These objectives and the procedures and policies applied in the
program's design are sound (paras. 52, 53 and 54). No quantification has
been attempted of the economic rate of return (ERR) attributable to the DGH
program as a whole, or to the project components which support improvements
in sectoral policy or in sectoral institutions. However, large savings can
be realized through better policies such as the introduction of more efficient
trucks and buses. Also, improved efficiency in sectoral institutions should
substantially increase the contribution of transport agencies to economic
development by reducing unit transport costs and by freeing funds for other
high priority uses.
65.       The physical works and equipment to be financed under the proposed
loan have not been specifically identified but will be submitted later with
appropriate documentation for Bank approval. The items to be submitted will
be selected and evaluated according to detailed procedures which have been



- 22 -
appraised and found satisfactory. A broad spectrum of road improvement works
has been sampled and ERR's ranged from 16 to 90%. A sample bridge under the
bridge replacement program had an ERR of 30%. The ERR for the first pro-
vincial public works department improvement program was 25%. The benefits
included reductions in vehicle operating and road maintenance costs and in
travel costs of passengers. In some cases, developmental benefits contri-
buted significantly to the result. The evaluation procedures included the
usual sensitivity tests which indicated that with significant variation in
costs and benefits the ERRs remained well over 10%. As the higher-cost roads
typically had high ERRs (up to 90%), it is quite likely that the selection of
projects which would be presented to the Bank would result in an overall ERR
well over 20%. In any event, the Government has agreed that no road better-
ment or bridge replacement schemes will be presented to the Bank for financ-
ing under the proposed loan unless the ERR is more than 15%, or unless the
Bank agrees otherwise.
66.       Beneficiaries under the project will be the population at large
because commercial vehicles represent the greatest proportion of traffic on
Indonesia's roads. Competition is vigorous among commercial operators and
reductions in vehicle operating costs will very likely be passed on to
shippers and consumers. The project will also benefit a large number of
nonpowered vehicles which make use of Indonesia's highways. Further bene-
fits, particularly for nonmotorized traffic, will be obtained when the
Government has developed and implemented a road safety program. The Govern-
ment has agreed to develop and implement such a program (Section 4.05 of the
Loan Agreement). Construction of project roads also is expected to make a
significant contribution to employment; $1 million of such work is estimated
to provide about 60-100 man-years of skilled jobs and about 250-450 man-years
of semiskilled jobs, depending on the nature and location of the work.
Project Risks
67.       DGH policies in the design of the project tend to reduce risks.
DGH design criteria stress economy and the exclusion of design factors with
speculative benefits. DGH has minimized the risks of cost overruns by
requiring detailed engineering of all major works and by procuring the works
through effective contract arrangements. DGH has also reduced the risks from
inaccurate traffic projections and overdesign by emphasizing quick return
projects. DGH has assessed possible weaknesses in its olin organization,
which might impede the proper execution of the project, and has taken con-
crete measures to overcome them.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in section III of
Annex III.



- 23 -
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 3, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                         Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                              /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1904.3                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHIER
AGRICULTURAL     283.8                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP 2.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  70.0       140.0    300.0            616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       120.0     178.0           522.0       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        94.7       117.6    133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9        17.5      17.9            30.1       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       50.0        62.0      70.0           156.8       46.8         42.7
PIER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0      419.0     470.0           794.8      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.1 /f     44.0      42.1            40.8       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                         55.3 /f     53.5      55.1            55.4       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6 If      2.5       2.8             3.2        2.9          3.0
PO 'ULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
,'OTAL                             2.1         2.0       2.0             2.3        2.4         2.7
JRBAN                               ..         3.7 /R    2.6             5.1        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.0        45.9      40.3            34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.4        20.6      19.9             8.7        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         3.2       2.5             2.6         2.9         3.2
FAAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       181.1   1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         0.2      13.7            22.1        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             96.5       100.0    102.7            106.8       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   39.0        91.0      98.0           108.7       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        43.0      43.8            57.7        50.0        56.8
OF WTIICH ANIMAL ANDl PULSE     15.0 /h     14.0      16.6             17.0       13.9        17.5
CIHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             4.0         ..          7.5
HEA'.TH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5        45.0      45.3            59.0       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          125.0 /f,i    ..    116.0              44.0       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
Pt3PULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      11.0            21.9        26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        10.0      41.0            58.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                               ..         1.0       4.0             9.8        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0            28.6        16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        50.0      60.0            66.6        65.9        69.5
RURAL                               *-         4.0       5.0            14.8         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0          4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      7770.0 /j 7310.0 /i       1520.2    6983.3        2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1370.0      1670.0    1430.0           657.1      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               ..      1130.0        ..           145.5       183.3       278.4
RURAL                               *-      1890.0        ..          1011.8      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             19.0       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8        ..             5.2         5.2
URBAN                              4.9         5.3        ..             5.2         4.8
RURAL                              4.3         4.7                       5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.5        ..
URBAN                               ..         1.6        ..              ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                               ..         1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        63.5        ..            39.1        25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..        75.5        ..
RURAL                               ..        39.1        ..              ..         8.7        10.3



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                          Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0         75.0      81.0             95.6       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0        70.0      75.0             93.7       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0        15.0       18.0            43.3        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                3.0         11.0      13.0             38.6        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0         22.0       21.0             11.3        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        29.0       30.0            30.0        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          14.0        13.0       15.0            25.4        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        47.0 /k      59.0      62.0 /k          84.0       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         2.0        3.0             9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0           ..      39.0             97.6       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.7         ..             21.8        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..      16.0             25.9        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..              4.6        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0      44200.0   48430.0 Lj
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9        31.0       34.2            33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              75.0         69.0      60.1             48.4       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4         9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.1        49.9       52.6             38.9       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 79.8         68.7      73.8             48.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               29.4         32.1      36.8             28.4       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.3       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        33.7 A       ..             17.3       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.0 lm      ..             45.6       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.8 Im      ..              6.5        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         17.3 Im     ..             17.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     125.0            140.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      95.0            112.8       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0             76.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0             27.7       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      59.0             40.4       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita, 1976);  /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /g  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /i  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;  /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jaya;  In  Income recipients.
September 1978



- 26 -                                                     ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                 Page   3   of   5
S2" :  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capitai Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total. urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently fo  crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establismer.ts permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments provicing principally custodiaL
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer is-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of odm4is-o to or discharges,
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of co=ercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the   number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons  per hoshl)             oa, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A h     eh household consists  f a grop  f idividuals who share living quarters
Total population, oid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nou-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per rOom in all, urban, and rural occupied coventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings oxclude ono-permaneot structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female eoroillent cf all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary edrcation; fcr countries with universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent sioce some pupils are below or
1970 and fine-year average ending in 1975 for most recent ertisate.                      sbove the official school age.
Crude death rare (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary edu-a-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four yearn of approved primary i-t-riction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; c-rrcnpcnd.nce courses are generally
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates;  asually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enroilment (percent of secondary) - Vocational in-titot--cs in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate irdependently
amily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of blrth-co-trol devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by nuobers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-4i years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motto cars
capita annual production of all fond commodities,                                      seating less than eight persons; e-cludes  ambulances, hearses and military
per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All typen of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic productien, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of popuiltion; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivera in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wan in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAl based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand polatin) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and se-  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in cour-
eent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein cotent of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows thb  average  circula-
capita oet supply of food yer day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tisn of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries establinhed by USDA provide for                   cation devoted pri.arily to recording general news.   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of trtal protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a weak.
Of animal and puls- protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the n-ber of tickers
These stardards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including udeissions to drive-in cisemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond               EMPLOYMIENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - f-one-ically active persona, including actec
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but escluding housewives, stude-ts, etc.  i[efini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various c-utries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor fcrce as perc-enage cf total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expecrancy at birth  (yearn) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Induntrv (perce-t) - Labso  force in rining, -ostructior, manufa-rrir.g and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of tntal labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thu.sand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Farticipatisn rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                lemale labor force  -s percentages of their respective popluniens.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, arban, and rural -                    These are TILO's adjusted participation rttes reflecting ue-set
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      struct-re of the pop,ilati-n. end  ongy tie trend.
safe water sopply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Econonic de endoncy ratio- Ratin of population coder 15 and 65 ad over t.
uncontaminated water such as that fion protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor f-rce in ago group ct 15-64 yours.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fourtain or standpost located not more                     INCOIE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house nay be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private inco-e (both in cash and kind) received h  richest 
ssnable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and procest '; portent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a dispropyrticnate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (ESS per cipikc)   urhan  and ntor
rural - Number at poople (total, urban, and rural) nerved by escreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level hoo whic: a minimai
diaposal as percentages of their respective populaticos.  Escreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requireneots is reo
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human eacreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (IS) per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privi-s and similar installatinns.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per ohysician - Pcpulation divided by number sf practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban und rural -
Population par nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute por" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever in greater.
assis.tant nuroes.
Economic and Social Duta l-vision
Econonic Analysis and Projections Depoarneot



- 27 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1960-65             1965-70         1971-77
GNP at Market Prices            44,386        100.0                           1.9                4.9             7.8
Gross Domestic Investment        8,667         19.5                           3.3               11.5            13.4
Gross National Saving            8,448         19.0                           5.8                5.1            16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725       - 1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            7,592         17.1                           1.5                7.8            10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            7,489         16.9                           0.2               10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US;Mln.      __                    Mln.                            EUS-$          _
Agriculture                     11,624       31.1                  35.3      62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                        12,672       33.9                   4.7       8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                        13,043       35.0                  13.4       23.8                  973         147.0
Unallocated                       -            -                    3.0        5.3
Total/Average             .            .                                .                     .             .
37,339     lOO.                   56.4      lOO.O                   -66         lO.O
GOVERNMENT FDIANCE
CENTRAL GOVERN~IENT
(Rp. Billion)                                            % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                            1976                  1977
Current Receipts                2,877               3,535        -                    18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure             1,610               2,149                             10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                 1, 267              1,387                              8.2                   7.-3
Capital Expenditures            2,044               2,157                             13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)         784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                                   1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
(Billion Rp  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                         695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                  129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              15.2          14.6         14.8          16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)              807         1,928        1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                            25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2          11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                  -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7          -6-2       -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                  65.3          77.9         27.2         16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



-28-                                    ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF P_ YME_US                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                      US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       4,738   6,183    7,-592                 Oil                                 2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                 Timber                                 605      11.9
Non oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                 Rubber                                 461       9.1
Imports                       -5,533  -_6,52   -_7489                 Palm Oil                               117       2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                   107       2.1
Factor service:               -  462  -  646   -  828                  Coffee                                104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income           -  284 --  284   -  355                   All other commodities                791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8T5-  -  725                           Total                        5,09!     1o000
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329       286               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEKBER 31, 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               2,395   2,327    1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization               -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                    2,073   1,702    1,162                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               11,39]
Capital Grants                   .         .        ..                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205   )474                     Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  604   )   -
Increase in Reserves (+)         983      736    1,197                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 
Gross Reserves (end year)        590   1,494    2,494                                  _
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                   Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         93      119        28
of which:  Petroleum          89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243          IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Feb. 28, 1979)(Million US $)
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF FECHANGE                                                                                                         I
Throijoh    Aug. 1971         2/                Outstanding & Disbursed                596.1       490.7
Throuah  -Aug. 1971Since  -  1971-                                Undisbursed                         1,306.9        189.0
US $ 1. 00   Rp 375             US $ 1.00 = Rp 415                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       1,903.0        679.7
Rp   1000 = US $2.67            Rp   1Q00 = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1000 = US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed               50.0  228.1         -
220      1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5       0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                  15.0       0.7
260     1971    Second Highway                                       34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                     12.5       0.2
300     1972    Population                                           13.2       3.2
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                     8.5       2.0
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                          11.0       2.0
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                               3.6       0.2
358      1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development               .5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                      13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                        14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                              46.0       4.8
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                    7.8       6.3
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                        50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                        16.5      10.1
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                           5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                         16.0      10.7.
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                      6.5       2.1
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                       30.0      22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                 40.0      35.9
827     1978    Rural Credit                                         30.0      30.0
869     1979    Polytechnic /a                                       49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                      48.0               3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta Urban Development                    25.0               2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                     14.5              8.5
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                 115.0               1.6
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                             65.0             49.8
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                 41.0              4.7
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                      68.0               1.5
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5              19.2
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping           13.0               8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                              130.0             100.2
/a  Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                             37.0               31.2
1250    1976    Second Shipping                              54.0               46.7
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                   70.0               14.3
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                  90.0               76.7
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension                22.0               15.8
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                           33.0               21.5
1318    1977    Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0               23.2
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                     52.5               22.0
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                           32.0               23.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0               12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                 116.0               86.9
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                        13.0               12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education             19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                            63.0               61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                             35.0               31.2
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0               26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                            24.5               23.9
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                         15.0               14.4
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I           65.0               61.7
1513    1978    Seventh Power                               109.0              108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                                10.0               9.1
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                            140.0              139.7
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0               29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II          65.0               65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                            77.0               77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                   54.0               54.0
Total                                            1,903.0  679.7   1,495.9
of which has been repaid                          13.8    0.0
Total now outstanding                            1,889.2  679.7/c
Amount sold                                          28.1    0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                1,861.1  679.7
Total undisbursed                                1,306.9  189.0   1,495.9
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Amount of $1.1 million cancelled.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of                    US$ million
Year         Obligor                  business             Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               10.6      2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles              2.5      0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0     0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                 2.8      0.4         3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles              4.5      1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                 11.0       -         11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.4      0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco.
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0     0.3          2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics           0.9       -          0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              2.4      0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.0      1.5         6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1         1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles              0.3       -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              1.4      0.1         1.5
Total                                                50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                   29.2      1.8       31.0
Total held by IFC                                    21.6      8.7        30.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)           -       -



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, i578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                               5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)          6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                             9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)              15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                         17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                         18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                       20
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project executioni
/2 Not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily, Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



- 34
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily.  Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date:  August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completi-oni but factory e6pacify still has to be expanded



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355  Beef Cattle Development:  US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977.  By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location because of the extensive support- already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and ot-her Bank-s4pp&rted projects;



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall Vioject is now about
18 months behind scheduie. Construetion of shore facilities at Ambon is



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including atehitects and engineers, the



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978: Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty Pi iianagthg its diverse program of



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by -'-out slx months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out. It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development.  Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9        Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraception; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 30 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. Rowever, during the p*riod coVer'id there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for



- 44
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 pages
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities fo a  the National Family Planning Coo-- J.
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is e*fisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progtess, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31  1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being
made and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first
construction contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and
work is underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow
withdrawal of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90%
of the land has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished,
and a contract for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays
will probably postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is
too early to estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Govern-
ment intends to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports
and dredging, functions which are currently administered by government
departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Project execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procurement is now well under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and passenger



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974: Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040  Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date:  January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be util4zk  in allocati4g thg 1Rots yere resolved last year.
About.2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336  Second Urban Devclopment:  US$52.5 Millic. T' - - -
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date:  May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 15%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  24 months
(b)  Project preparation coordinated by:  Directorate General of
Highways, Ministry of Public Works
(c)  First presented to the Bank:  April 1977
(d)  First mission to consider the project:  July 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  May 1978
(f)  Follow-up mission to further discuss the project:  November 1978
(g)  Completion of negotiations:  February 1979
(h)  Planned loan effectiveness:  August 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government has:
(i) indicated its policy to move towards a cost-based system of pricing
in the transport sector (para. 37);
(ii) indicated its awareness of the distortions resulting from the low
domestic price of petroleum fuels and of the need to rectify these
distortions (para. 38).
(iii) indicated its intention to raise more revenues from highway trans-
port and has agreed to implement appropriate recommendations for
increased taxes on road users (para. 39); and
(iv) agreed to develop and implement a road safety program (para. 66).
(b) The Bank would make disbursements for each DPUP improvement program
only after a detailed program is submitted for that DPUP and
approved by the Bank (para. 46).






980     1000          Ti4~~~~~~~II~~AND    ~~~oum,,   Ci'A(   -PHILJPPINES
-60                                                                                 BRNI[POEC  OAIN
mh i s   o aP   h a s   b e e n   p r e pa r e d   b y   t h e   2E    I O J C L C A O N
8                           ~~~~~~~~~World Bank's staff exclusively, for  ' ~ )LA     __
Lh ks mawdnointinsusd d h                                                                  PACIFIC OCeANI
we~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
boundww$ "hown on this map  INGA PO ~       L~IIEE AL
ACEH                                    ARIEA OF MAP                 Li ~     U,
-40                                  amn agkjoenINDIAAN OCEAAN                        FLRS">,        TIMO I
Binj.  inq Morawa                                      SouI 
20   a          p                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
-. J~PORE
Jemba    u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
New   ~ ~ ~~~         PaknbhJMBankaEnag.
0  INDONESIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 
APPRAISAL   OF                                     SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTHa
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                         <c- \~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SUMATR
SUMATE RA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
40  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                         _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  a40p 
APROVINCAL ROADFUTOSSUYAE                                                             ernjangk 
A    FIFT  PROINCALBONAY RY          J
- -INATERNAT IONWAY BOUNDARYL
RA    ILEY                                                                 aita -






/BR RD-1174 7R
INDONESI A                                                         S8777 ,_0
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROtJECT
AA4PWUNG                                                        JAVA AMD IALI
NATIONALH FdHWAYS
+PREVIOUS 9P7OEETONvOI:ON P1f1th P7PF( LOA-N 7238 IND)             B"
9AMP)E    NA MUET 7C N = PROJECT    ; 7I7.  P|78857
6,771877                                    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- PROVINCIAL  CNOONARIN                        777778
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAPE                                      EAsT   JAVA EA      /
L~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '_                               1, 1, "If 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.809d J878                                                                                     077777    C i8P  tB   n- >FmT9  d
|  tiJ _ ?   rss Mv- i 7p                                                               o--V\ _  elp n                         D  "  k  Pp   9
i  .   . .   1  ,  -  t A  } .  JA7JAkAANTA
T  _      AKA7 "A-,   ---kt.
..hN                fA 87 7               A     R      E d 0A70 F  C.   s _ 77KOE
T                                   'A SEP:  T9  ^   tlTW   Al78 00               _
77738778A,<  1.7.,                            670   1,7887~~~~~~~ -, I
-ILAN.  I.AT'..                                                           KA R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI~~80778
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L A Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-L788                                                    17
In di an                 e a n
7,,,
8-75077887~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41"e"






f*Z                  a   c   1 EL               3CA
L<Q;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 M     0- - 






JOY.i _<T'iA   I LAND  19@   2  1i2-                            iiS'        a        X           170'         i 2           io   125e     -                                                                                               lOlf   l iO'  15  ,  IBRD 12696 R:
T\ FIA ILAND                                                                                              - i                                                                          20.                              tO                               jy      00 1400  04,
d. do Oh                                                                                                                                                                                 K                                                               INDONESIA
PHILIPPINES' .                                      ADMINISTRATION AND POPULATION
s  ouX  .  W .  M A  h 0   .5 " C tZ J  dIt   7 /   S A 7  J  B R U N E 1 1                                                       7                                                                 0    0 V  D A RI 1S
<  SI                        MALAYSIA   -    -                                                                                                                                                       4_                                                   0)0000200000 00004000        0    0000M A  jA Sr
a,X,,~   ~     ~ ~~~~~o,.o.                                                                                                                                                                                                       044010 000.0 101 00210 01  0,"2M00'01>FOUATO  ELTePF  u. ETMTDAEO
r                                                                                                                                              1   00 000E.
t5 SINGA                                        E WNGaPerooo QRE000000010
23 -A3T NU1A'~Q                                                                                                                   ))$..::l9........      Y                             HALMAIERA                    Paci            c-             Oce         n                - 7 
0           ,r -                   I'r-                              IT2'                             Tl78   A20'                                                          135                               1'                         MonolwoA kp.< -A
-00100                                  ).E- O(o04'I
T0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      z
0    ~ ~ ~     000000    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~         ,~~                  I~   a  ~v   a                    Se                Oj-ngPolodoook
IAW                                            4 ~~~~~~~~AXARCATA                                                                                        0                      a                                                          P 'a5&c
' .-*00                                                                               1100 .-T4400.
14 0000                                                     a nAI.ea  OVO IA                                                                                                                                                                                                    00Oo
w    0. .,W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A                                                                                                                                                                                          ?go .**3:: .  .0Moo0.-
10 o4otoooaooooooo                                                                                                                          anna                 000 E



