Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  Cfjpv
Rcport No. 2260-IND
INDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 3, 1979
Transportation Division
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =     Rupiah (Rp)
US$1                  =     Rp 625
Rp 1                  =     USJO.16
Rp 1 million          =     US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                            British/US
1 millimeter (mm)                 =      0.04 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                        0.39 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                       =      13.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)              =      35.28 cubic feet (cu ft )
1 kilometer (km)                  =      0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km )        =     0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                              0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
=     0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                   =      2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)              =      2.204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
ADT         -   Average Daily Traffic
BAPPENAS    -   National Planning Council
CIDA        -   Canadian International Development Agency
CIPTA KARYA -   Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning, and
Urban Development (Ministry of Public Works)
DANIDA      -   Danish International Development Authority
DGH         -   Directorate General of Highways
DKI         -   Special Provincial Government of Jakarta
DPUK        -   Kabupaten Public Works Department
DPUP        -   Provincial Public Works Department
DWT         -   Dead Weight Ton
ERR         -   Economic Rate of Return
GDP         -   Gross Domestic Product
MHA         -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC         -   Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism
MPW         -   Ministry of Public Works
PUSRI       -   P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (Government-owned fertilizer company)
RBO         -   Regional Betterment Office
RLS         -   Regular Liner Service of Inter-Island Shipping
SEP         -   Sufficiency Engineering Proposal
SFP         -   Screening-Feasibility Project
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Program
UNIDO       -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  TRANSPORT SECTOR .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
A. General ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
B.  The Transport System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
C.  Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination  . . . . . .       5
2.   HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
A. Network .....   7
B.  Traffic and Road Transport Industry . . . . . . . . . . .       9
C.  Highway Administration, St:aff and Training  . . . . . . .    11
D.  Highway Planning  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .    .......  .  .   .    14
E. Financing . . . . . .  . . .                                    14
F.  Engineering ....  .  .  .                .                     17
G.  Construction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
H. Maintenance .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        18
I. Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects . . . . . . . . .    20
3. THE PROJECT..22
3.  TE  POJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
A. DGH Development Program .22
B. Description . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
C.  Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component . . . . . .    38
D. Financing .41
E.  Implementation, Procurement and Environmental Aspects . .    41
F. Disbursements       . . . . . .. . . .                          44
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ..45
A. General   ..45
B. Individual Investments .47
C. Project Risks   ..56
5.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION'S  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Indonesia in
May and June 1978, comprising Messrs. Jensen (engineer) and Neuner (economist).
Messrs. Alexander and Ballereau of the Bank's Resident Staff in Indonesia
also assisted in the appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank au:horization.



-2-
ANNEX
1  -  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
TABLES
1  -  The Public Highway Network
2  -  The Public Highway Network - Type of Surface
3  -  The Public Highway Network - Axle Load-Carrying Capacity
4  -  DGH Geometric Design Standards
5  -  Number of Bridges by Bridge Class by Road Class for All
Indonesia
6  -  Vehicles Registered, 1967-76
7  -  Motor Vehicle Registrations - Geographic Distribution, 1976
8  -  Buses and Trucks in Use by Payload - Geographic Distribution,
1976
9  -  Buses and Trucks in Use by Payload, 1971 and 1976
10  -  Buses and Trucks in Use by Region, 1971 and 1976
11  -  Budget Summary of Directorate General of Highways
12  -  Budget Nonroutine Expenditures of Directorate General
of Highways, 1974/75-1977/78
13  -  Second Five-Year Plan Development Program of Directorate
General of Highways, April 1974 - March 1979
14  -  Physical Targets and Financial Allocations for Roads under
National Development Program, April 1, 1979-March 31, 1984
15  -  Project Implementation Schedule
16  -  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
MAPS
IBRD 11746R - Sumatera
IBRD 11747R - Java and Bali
IBRD 13928   -  Sulawesi
CHARTS
World Bank 19496 - Organization of the Central and Provincial Works
Organizations in Relation to Highway Administration
World Bank 19497 - Organization Chart for Execution of Projects. New
Construction, Betterment I and II, Bridge Replace-
ments, and Support Works
World Bank 19498 - Province of West Sumatra. Provincial Department of
Public Works (DPUP) Organization Chart



IINDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Transportation has played a major part in Indonesia's economic
recovery over the past decade. The quickening pace of economic life has
resulted in even more rapid progress in transportation; while total Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) grew between 1972 and 1976 at 7.8% per year in constant
prices, the contribution of the transport and communications sectors to GDP
rose at 10.5%.
1.02      Restoration of internal and external commerce has depended on
rehabilitation of the transport system. Many journeys, which ten years ago
took days, now only take hours. In addition, with the emergence of new
production patterns, important structural changes have been accomplished in
the transport sector. Highways are developing as the primary carrier for
inputs and products of the expanding food sector, especially rice, whose
output rose by 25% between 1969 and 1974. Railways and shipping are becoming
specialized carriers of bulk commodities as Indonesia expands plantation
crops, such as palm oil, and build[s large new industries, such as fertilizer
and cement. The combined production, in tons, of these three commodities
nearly doubled during 1969 to 1974, and continued to rise rapidly thereafter.
Increased personal mobility associated with rising incomes (5.5% per head per
year between 1971 and 1975) has led to a sharp expansion of road transport
and aviation.
1.03      Indonesia's Government has sought to shape transport policy to
these emerging trends. During the First Five Year Plan (1969-74), the
Government gave primary emphasis to rehabilitation. While rehabilitation
was continued during the Second Plan (1974-79), the Government also initiated
some longer-term improvement projects in support of its strategy to increase
capacity where serious bottlenecks occur, and to expand the system in support
of other principal development programs, such as industrialization on the
densely populated island of Java and transmigration in other areas. The
Government intends to continue this strategy during the Third Plan (1979-84).
However, intensive efforts to put roads into serviceable condition which were
called rehabilitation (that is, restoration to previous condition or heavy
deferred maintenance) will now be supplanted by essentially similar works,
called support works, to keep roads serviceable until they can be strengthened.
The Government will also seek further increases in productivity by gradual
improvements in infrastructure and further strengthening of sectoral institutions.
1.04      Gross domestic investment has been growing rapidly.  It represented
about 20% of GDP in the first three years of the Second Plan, amounting to
about Rps 3,200 million in 1976.  The bulk of this investment was in the



- 2 -
public sector with over Rps 2,000 million being financed from the develop-
ment program. Private investment is important in some sectors such as trans-
portation where most of the fleet for highways and interisland shipping is
privately financed. However, transportation also absorbed a significant part,
estimated between 10 and 15%, of public sector expenditures during the Second
Plan. The Third Plan allocates about 15% for transportation. The level of
total transport investment, which is within the ranges noted in similar
economies, is also appropriate to the pace and scope of Indonesia's economic
development. The preponderant share of road transport (roughly one half) in
transport investment reflects the rapid growth in that subsector.
B. The Transport System
Highways
1.05      Roads, which are important throughout Indonesia, are most highly
concentrated in Java which, with only 7% of Indonesia's land area, accounts
for 35% of all national, provincial, and district roads. While recent
information is not available on allocation of traffic among the transportation
modes, road transport undoubtedly accounts for the majority of all passenger
and freight (except oil) movements. However, other modes do compete with
road transport in most places. Coastal shipping provides a significant
alternative at many locations and river traffic, aviation and even pipelines
at some others. Railway competition is concentrated on Java and parts of
Sumatera. The extent of the road network outside Java is still inadequate
and the condition of more than 90% of the roads, both in Java and elsewhere,
is considered by the Government as unstable, that is, not maintainable by
normal methods. The Bank Group has financed four highway projects totalling
US$ 206 million: Credit 154-IND in 1969 (US$28 million); Credit 260-IND in
1971 (US$34 million); Credit 388-IND in 1973 (US$14 million); and Loan
1236-IND in 1976 (US$130 million). Performance on these projects generally
has been satisfactory although execution of the latter was slow in starting.
Further details on the subsector are given in Chapter 2.
Railways
1.06      Railways are confined (with one minor exception in Madura) to two
islands: about 4,700 km on Java and 2,000 km on Sumatera. The railways,
which were built during the 70 years prior to World War II for moving primary
commodities to foreign markets, suffered from the decline in exports in the
1950's and 1960's and, as with most public infrastructure in Indonesia, were
allowed to deteriorate. Limited rehabilitation took place during the First
Five-Year Plan and freight traffic recovered significantly during that Plan
to over 1,100 million ton-km in 1974, an increase of over 50%. Since then,
freight traffic has declined, reaching a low of about 700 million ton-km in
1976, although it is estimated to have gone up to about 800 million ton-km in
1977. Passenger traffic in terms of passenger-km has remained about the same



-3 -
over the past eight years (3.5 billiton passenger-km), but the number of
passengers has declined throughout the system as the railways concentrated
more on long distance movements. The financial position of the railways has
also weakened sharply in recent years; tariff increases coulir not offset the
combined effect of reduced traffic and large wage awards, and the operating
ratio in 1977 was estimated at nearly 170%.
1.07       The railways' disappointing performance reflects a number of
factors, including delays in rehabilitation of its assets and in improving
operations, excessive number of personnel, and weaknesses in the competitive
position of some services, particulaLrly on Java. It is clear that the
comprehensive program of modernization and rehabilitation which formed the
basis of the Bank's Railway Project (Loan 1005-IND) will not be carried out
in accordance with the original schedule, and the role of the railways in
Indonesia's economy needs further review. Accordingly, the railways have
drafted, with the help of consultants under the Bank's railway project, an
Overall Plan for the next five to ten years.
1.08       The Overall Plan emphasizes the marketing of rail services based on
realistic traffic projections, improved maintenance of permanent way and
rolling stock, and operation of larger and more reliable trains. The Overall
Plan will require decisions by the Government on the economic role it wishes
to assign to the railways and on the financial burden the Government can
assume for various unremunerative railway services and for the costs of
redundant railway workers. The Government is preparing a paper to address
these issues. However, it is likely that the railways will continue to play
an economic role in defined areas and services, such as coal in South Sumatera,
and long distance movements of passengers and bulk commodities on Java.
Shipping and Ports
1.09       In 1976, the Indonesian fleet for internal sea communications
(including movements between Indonesia and Singapore and Malaysia) comprised
roughly 1.2 million DWT of owned, hire-purchased and chartered vessels, plus
a large number of smaller vessels not classified by carrying capacity. About
two-thirds of the deadweight tonnage is used in the petroleum trade, and
another quarter are the ships of the Regular Liner Services (RLS) companies
which carry about half the dry cargo movements by sea. Much of the remainder
of the fleet are specialized vessels for offshore oil operations and for
carrying commodities such as salt, fiertilizer and lumber. Special services
(so-called "pioneer" services) are offered by the Government on a subsidized
basis to the country's most remote areas.
1.10       A 1974 survey of all domestic cargo movements indicated that
petroleum tonnage represented about 60% of these movements. Domestic con-
sumption of petroleum products increased sharply (at 16% per year) between
1972 and 1975, with a corresponding rise in domestic petroleum shipments.
The movement of dry cargo tonnage increased by over 11% per year between 1971
and 1976. Increases in traffic have generally resulted in greater tonnage
of certain specialized vessels, such as tankers and bulk fertilizer carriers
(financed under Loan 1139-IND). The nominal tonnage of RLS vessels has



remained about the same, but improvements have been achieved in the quality
of vessels as a result of a rehabilitation program, which was begun in 1972
and assisted by IDA under Credit 318-IND, and a program to replace overage
vessels with newer ships, which was started in 1976 and assisted by Bank Loan
1250-IND. However, the RLS firms, particularly the Government-owned company,
continue to experience serious financial problems due to weak management and
port delays. Consulting assistance under Loan 1250-IND is being provided to
address these problems.
1.11      A recently completed study of growth prospects for Indonesia's
domestic maritime trade projects an increase in dry cargo tonnage of roughly
6% per annum between 1976 and 1989. This would require substantial increases
in the fleet even if vessel operations and utilization were improved signi-
ficantly. A project, assisted by Loan 1250-IND, will provide some of this
added capacity for RLS ships, but further lending may also be appropriate
for specialized vessels such as bulk chemical and cement carriers and barge
systems.
1.12      In 1976, Indonesia's ocean fleet, which services its foreign trade
beyond Singapore and Malaysia, was roughly 2.8 million DWT, with tankers
accounting for about 75% of this tonnage, timber carriers about 13%, and liners
most of the rest. The composition of Indonesia's fleet corresponds to the
pattern of its foreign trade. In terms of tonnage, oil exports accounted for
about 72% of all foreign trade tonnage in 1975, and timber for about 7%.
While over 80% of the tanker tonnage was hire-purchased, most of the remaining
vessels are owned in Indonesia.
1.13      The country has about 300 registered ports scattered over the
archipelago, but only a few ports handle the bulk of the traffic. In 1974,
only 16 ports handled more than 0.5 million tons of domestic and foreign
traffic, and 8 of these were primarily petroleum or lumber ports. In 1976
the oil ports of Riau province (primarily Dumai) accounted for 40% of the
value of Indonesia's exports, and Tanjung Priok (Jakarta) accounted for
roughly one-third of the value of Indonesia's imports and 10% of its exports.
Other ports handling large amounts of foreign trade include Surabaya in Java
(primarily imports), Belawan in Sumatera (primarily rubber and palm oil
exports), and Balikpapan in Kalimantan (primarily petroleum and lumber
exports). These ports are also important transfer points for internal
seaborne traffic.
1.14      As port facilities for oil and timber traffic are mostly owned and
operated by the firms in these trades, the Government has concentrated its
attention initially on the problems of the other large ports. It emphasized
rehabilitation works (with financial help from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), the Netherlands and Japan) during the First Five-Year Plan, as well
as improved port operations to overcome serious congestion, particularly in
Tanjung Priok. Longer-term expansion needs were studied in a series of
master plans for Tanjung Priok (financed by IDA Technical Assistance Credits
216-IND and 275-IND), Surabaya, Belawan and Panjang (financed by UNDP



- 5 -
with ADB as executing agency) and Palembang (financed by USAID).  Major port
additions are now under way for Tanjung Priok with Bank assistance (Loan
1337-IND), for Surabaya and Belawan with ADB financing, and for Panjang under
German aid. These projects also include continued technical assistance and
other measures to improve customs procedures and port management, particularly
cargo handling, maintenance and accounting.
1.15      The Government is initiating, with finance under Loan 1337-IND, a
study of operations and investment requirements in Indonesia's smaller ports,
many of which are used mainly by domestic shipping. One of the chief purposes
of the study is to speed up cargo handling and reduce excessively high ship
turnaround times, thereby increasing the productivity of the domestic fleet.
This study should also help to integrate planning of domestic shipping and
port requirements.
Aviation
1.16      In 1975, scheduled domestic air services were provided at about
44 airports throughout Indonesia, with the hub of the network in Jakarta,
which accounted in 1974 for nearly 40% of all passenger departures and arrivals
in Indonesia. Jakarta's position is even more predominant in international
air travel, where it handled about 60% of all passenger movements. The growth
of domestic air traffic has continued very rapidly over recent years; between
1972 and 1978 passenger traffic (in passengers and passenger-km) on scheduled
airlines increased by nearly 20% per year; freight grew over the same time
span also by about 20%, but still aggregated less than 33,000 tons in 1978.
There has also been a significant rise in nonscheduled and general aviation.
The growth of international air traf'fic has been roughly parallel to domestic
aviation, except that the increase in air cargo is even less significant.
1.17      The number of aircraft registered in Indonesia rose in step with
overall traffic growth. Between 1973 and 1976, the number of short-range jet
airliners rose from 17 to 45 and several categories of smaller aircraft
(Beech Aircraft, Cessna, Piper) increased rapidly. The Government is planning
further improvements in aviation infrastructure and has recently initiated
discussions with ADB on possible assistance for several secondary airports.
A new airport for Jakarta, currently under design with French technical
assistance, will combine the international and domestic services offered at
Jakarta's two present airports. The Government continues to expand its
"pioneer" services to remote areas under a program to construct simple air-
fields in these areas and provide subsidized flights with smaller aircraft.
C. Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
1.18      Responsibility for planning and policy formulation in the transport
sector is divided at the national level between two ministries:  MPW for
roads and the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism (MOC) for
other modes. Investment proposals are formulated at the modal level in these
ministries and then submitted by them to the National Planning Council
(BAPPENAS) for review and approval.  Major project proposals are normally



- 6 -
covered by feasibility studies prepared by foreign consultants, but modal
agencies, especially the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) are increas-
ingly making use of their own staffs and Indonesian consultants for studies
of other proposals. The Government has provided some training for transport
analysts on its staff and is planning to organize a course for transport
specialists to be offered in Indonesia on a repetitive basis, in collaboration
with the Bank's Economic Development Institute. Finally, the MOC has organ-
ized a central Research and Development Group with subgroups for the principal
modes in MOC to assist in planning and project analysis. These measures
should substantially improve the process of project selection, analysis and
review.
1.19      The Government has taken several steps to improve modal planning.
While the flow of data on transport remains irregular and limited, MOC,
jointly with DGH, is making a national origin-destination survey to record
all transport flows. An expatriate statistician to assist in this work is
being financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND). The MOC's
new Research and Development units are contributing to the preparation of
modal plans. Long-range plans are currently under preparation for the
railways, with consulting assistance financed under the Bank's Railway
Project (Loan 1005-IND), and for domestic shipping and some secondary ports,
with expatriate assistance financed from Dutch aid and from the Bank's Second
Shipping Project (Loan 1250-IND) and from the Bank's Tanjung Priok Port
Project (Loan 1337-IND). Highway planning has been strengthened through
assistance of experts from UNDP, the help of expatriates financed from the
Fourth Highway Project, and will be further assisted by specialists to be
financed under the proposed Fifth Highway Project (para. 3.32).
1.20      Some intermodal planning takes place through informal coordination
among the individual agencies, with involvement by BAPPENAS in selected
cases. In addition, a number of intermodal commodity transport studies have
been made or are being planned: for fertilizer, with Bank assisance under
the Fertilizer Distribution Project (Loan 1139-IND); for steel, with Bank
assistance under the Tanjung Priok Port Project (Loan 1337-IND); for coal,
under the Bank's Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering Project
(Loan S-9-IND); for the requirements of the North Sumatera plantations, under
IDA's Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 451-IND); and for cement,
with Canadian aid. Despite these significant developments, further work will
still be needed, particularly in planning of river transport and in overall
data collection before Indonesia has the prerequisites for national transport
planning and comprehensive transport coordination. The Project also includes
funds for transport planners to assist the Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning, and Urban Development (Cipta Karya) in the transport
aspects of regional planning and the Special Provincial Government of Jakarta
(DKI) with the urban transport planning for that city (para. 3.35).
1.21      The Government wields considerable influence over the operation of
the transport system, not only through the provision of infrastructure and
ownership of important transport enterprises in all modes, but also through
rate setting and other regulatory activities. The Government is displaying
increased concern for improved financial performance of its enterprises as



- 7 -
the growth of Government resources is slowing due to stagnation in oil
revenues. While it has traditionally favored cheaply priced transportation,
the Government indicated during loan negotiations that this policy is being
moderated by moving to a cost-based system of pricing to ercourage restraint
in the use of resources and to generate revenues for investment. The Govern-
ment also indicated that ideally the transport system should become financially
self-supporting.
1.22      Adequate cost recovery for the transport system also arises in
connection with price of petroleum, a principal cost of transport services.
Petroleum products have been sold for several years below world market prices
and the Government is currently prcviding a cash subsidy (about US$250 million
equivalent in 1978/79) to compensate the Government-owned oil company for
the costs of producing and selling petroleum products in Indonesia. The
Government is well aware that the subsidies for petroleum (both economic and
budgetary) create major distortions in the economy. However, because of the
possible inflationary impact of the recent devaluation, the Government is
proceeding cautiously in raising petroleum prices, particularly as kerosene
is one of the basic commodities in the consumer price index. Gradual
rectification of these prices nevertheless remains the long-term objective.
2. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.01      The extra-urban public road network totals more than 300,000 km,
including a network of village roads with an estimated length of more than
200,000 km. The public roads above the village road level total 99,781 kms
and are classified as "national" (11,308 km), "provincial" (27,559 km), and
"district" (kabupaten) (60,914 km), indicating their relative importance and
the basis for defining administrative, financial and executive procedures
associated with construction and maintenance. Only very few data are avail-
able for the village road network which ranges from motorable dirt tracks to
roads with asphalt sealed surfaces. Based on available information from
specific smaller areas, the total length has been estimated by extrapolation
to be 200,000 km or more. In addition to the public road network, agricul-
tural estates and oil companies construct and maintain their own roads.
Tables 1 and 2 show the public network of the three upper road levels by
classification and by surface type. While systematized data collection and
inventory updating have been used for several years for the national and
provincial roads, the Directorate General of Highways has only recently
taken steps to extend the system to include the district roads on a regular
basis. The first DGH organized inventory which will provide up-to-date
information on the district roads is presently underway.
2.02      For vehicle weight control purposes, the network of national and
provincial highways is presently divided into six classes, based on maximum
permissible axle load, ranging from 1.5 to 7 tons (Table 3). However,



-8-
geometrical and structural design standards for these roads recognize five
classes of roads in accordance with traffic volumes (Table 4). The pavement
structure design is usually based on actual or estimated axle load distri-
bution converted into a number of 8.2 tons standard single axle load applica-
tions by multiplying individual axle loads with specified equivalence factors.
The axle load limits in force on the national and provincial roads are not an
indication of the ultimate bearing capacity of individual pavement structures
but have been set on the basis of observed or perceived relationships between
pavement failures and magnitude of axle loads, in order to reduce initial
investment costs and subsequent maintenance or rehabilitation costs. An
increase in permissible axle loads will possibly result in more frequent
pavement failures and higher maintenance costs; but a recent study (para.
2.03) has shown that these additional costs are insignificant compared to the
benefits from higher axle loads. Bridge design standards introduced in 1970
are similar to those used in many European countries and new bridges would be
capable of carrying heavy vehicles with gross vehicle weights of 45 tons and
single axle loads of 20 tons. Prior to the introduction of bridge loading
specifications, bridge requirements were related to the road classifications,
and the majority of existing bridges on the national and provincial highways
were designed to lighter loading specifications and accordingly classified for
single axle loads mainly in the range of 3.5 to 5 tons (Table 5). However,
the bearing capacity of older existing bridges are often considerably higher
(and, in some cases, lower) than indicated by the classification codes, and an
increase in permissible axle loads would not necessarily imply that all
bridges of a lower classification code should be replaced. Only a detailed
field survey of each individual structure could reveal whether the actual
bearing capacity would be adequate for sustaining higher axle loads.
2.03      For some time, DGH has been planning a new classification system
for the public highway network based on functional criteria, and a tentative
proposal for classifying the national, provincial and district roads into
"arterial", "collector", and "feeder" roads was published in 1978. This
proposal divides all the major islands in Indonesia into a number of devel-
opment regions and identifies major development centers in each region.
Arterials connect regional centers which include the provincial capitals.
Collectors connect centers of secondary importance with each other or with
the arterial road network, and the remainder of the roads are then classified
as feeder roads. The arterial road network includes nearly all national
highways and about 15% of the provincial highways, giving a total length
of about 15,000 km. The study of vehicle weights and dimensions carried out
under the Fourth Highway Project has used the proposed functional road
network as the basis for collection, interpretation, and evaluation of
data and formulation of recommendations. The principal conclusions of the
study are that (a) existing axle load limits are extremely restrictive in
terms of permissible payload; (b) if existing axle load limits were enforced,
vehicle operating costs per ton-km would be much higher than in other coun-
tries: (c) vehicle operating cost savings associated with higher load limits
are so great by comparison with increased highway costs that the latter can
effectively be ignored; (d) it is worthwhile to introduce larger multi-axled
vehicles and to allow existing vehicles, rated as technically capable of



carrying larger payloads safely, to operate with increased loads; (e) geometric
design standards for primary and secondary highways (Table 4) are suitable
for safe operation of large articulated vehicles but the design standards for
third class (feeder) roads are unsuitable; (f) bridges designed in accordance
with thu Indonesian loading specifications will have adequate structural
strength to accommodate arterial and collector road permissible axle load
limits of 10 and 7 tons, respectively, which the study recommends should be
introduced; however, with the exception of a few short sections in Java, the
existing arterial network is incapable, both geometrically and structurally,
of carrying larger articulated vehicles and a transition period of several
years for introduction of such vehicles is anticipated; (g) where a sufficient
volume of commodity flows is carried, there appears to be adequate economic
justification for upgrading pavement and bridge deficiencies to accommodate
higher axle load units. In the meantime, it is recommended that a 7-ton
single axle load limit be introduced on both the arterial and the collector
road network. A program for the gradual expansion of the road network to
enable it to carry larger vehicles and heavier axle loads should be prepared;
it is proposed to estimate cost and benefits associated wLth raising load
limits in connection with evaluation of road betterment schemes, and such
analyses will also be an integral part of the methodology to be established
for the bridge replacement program (paras. 3.21 and 3.22).. In addition, MOC
plans to follow up on the study recommendations and to have implementation
studies carried out under a consultancy to be financed under the proposed
loan (para. 3.33). The Government has indicated that it will take appro-
priate actions toward putting the results of the implementation study into
effect.
B.  Traffic and Road Transport Industr'
Vehicles
2.04       In 1976, registered motor:Lzed vehicles (excluding military and
diplomatic) totalled about 2.1 mill:Lon of which about 0.7 million were
four-wheeled vehicles and 1.4 million were motorcycles and other types of
less than four wheels (Tables 6 and 7). The number of vehicles actually in
use is considerably less than the number registered (Tables 8-10); on the
basis of 1976 inspection records only about 80% of trucks and 60% of buses
registered were then on the road. Hlowever, even if the higher registration
data are used, the number of four-whleel vehicles in Indonesia is low compared
to other similar countries; it is 5.1 per 1,000 persons as against 7.9 in
Korea, 14.3 in Thailand, 15.4 in the Philippines and 48.2 in Malaysia. Only
about 60% of the four-wheel fleet are cars and many of these are used commer-
cially as multi-person carriers. Motorcycles are the principal private use
vehicle but many of these also are in commercial service as taxis or converted
to a tricycle configuration for suchL use. Almost all trucks (about 96%) have
payloads under four tons (Table 8). However, the trucks on Java Island are
somewhat larger than elsewhere in Indonesia and the greatest concentration
of two axle drawbar trailers is also found in Java (Tables 8-10). Similarly,
Java has proportionately more heavy vehicles in its bus fleet and more cars
amongst its four-wheel units (Tables 7 and 8). Indonesia's registered



- 10 -
motorized vehicle fleet has grown rapidly in the last decade; the total at
over 15% per year, four-wheel vehicles at nearly 10% and motorcycles at
nearly 20%. The rise has been particularly fast in the last three years and
has been more rapid in Java than elsewhere.
2.05      Virtually all newly registered vehicles are now assembled in
Indonesia. After the Government prohibited imports of fully assembled units,
domestic assembly of vehicles rose rapidly from about 4,000 four-wheel units
in 1970 to 93,000 in 1977. Most major makes are assembled in Indonesia but
very few multiaxle models of trucks and buses are made because of restric-
tions on axle loads (para. 2.02). In view of the low population of vehicles,
substantial future growth in the vehicle fleet seems likely unless the
Government moderates demand, especially for private cars, through taxation
and other policies. Some restrictions of this nature are in effect but the
Government may wish to increase them in order to reduce the need for road
investments, a matter which will be examined in connection with an implemen-
tation study on road user charges (paras. 2.26 and 3.33). The domestically
manufactured component in vehicles remains low, consisting primarily of
tires, batteries and similar items.
2.06      No comprehensive information is available on non-motorized road
vehicles in Indonesia. These range from various animal-drawn carts to hand-
carts, bicycles and bicycle rickshaws (becaks). They are used extensively in
the movement of both people and goods and a major component of traffic on the
roads in many areas of Indonesia is represented by non-powered vehicles. An
indication of the orders of magnitude is provided by a recent survey in the
Province of Yogyakarta; in 1977, some 240,000 bicycles and 40,000 becaks were
registered in the Province, as compared to an estimated population of 57,000
motorized vehicles.
Road Transport and Traffic
2.07      Systematic traffic counting on the national and provincial highways
has been carried out since 1970 by DGH; in addition, periodic origin and
destination surveys are made on the principal routes. The results indicate
that road transport has grown rapidly during the last five years. The
growth rate for truck traffic has been about 15% p.a. on average between 1972
and 1977, with somewhat lower growth rates in Java compared with the other
main islands. Passenger traffic, represented by the number of cars and
buses, has grown by about 11% to 14% p.a. for buses and about 20% (Sumatera) to
25% p.a. (Java) for cars (including smaller public vehicles). Some necessary
refinements of the basic procedures for obtaining traffic information are
being implemented at present to increase the accuracy of the data; however,
the trends in traffic growth are largely confirmed by the growth in fuel
consumption and vehicle registration. In the period between 1972 to 1977,
gasoline and diesel fuel consumption increased by about 10% and 25% p.a.,
respectively. The relatively slower growth in gasoline consumption is ex-
plained by the shift from gasoline-powered vehicles to diesel fuel vehicles
and the higher and better utilization of vehicles, due to improved road
conditions.



- 11 -
Road Transport Industry Regulation
2.08      Information on the road transport industry is limited and only
covers companies with larger buses and trucks. In 1975, services with larger
buses were provided by about 550 interprovincial companies with about 4,000
units and about 2,350 intraprovincial companies with about 11,550 buses;
average fleets thus were about seven units for interprovincial firms and
about five for intraprovincial enterprises. About half of the units were
manufactured before 1971, with older vehicles being concentrated in the
remoter areas. Data on interprovincial trucking companies in Java (the only
area surveyed) shows almost 600 enterprises operating about 2,750 trucks, or
about 4.5 units per firm. Moreover, 60% of the firms had only two or three
units each, indicating a very low rate of concentration. The age pattern of
trucks in this fleet was similar to that observed for buses.
2.09      Buses are licensed by routes, by the provincial Governors for
intraprovincial routes and by MOC for interprovincial routes. Route-licenses
for trucks are required only for interprovincial service in Java and are
issued by MOC. Very little information is available on the economics of
commercial road transport in Indonesia and on the structure of the industry.
Thus, no judgment is possible on the effects of regulation or on the effi-
ciency of the industry. The Government has, therefore, determined that a
study should be made of the road transport industry and has requested that
the proposed loan include finance to assist such a study (para. 3.33). The
study would be made jointly with, and provide an essential input to, a
parallel study of vehicle operating costs in Indonesia (see para. 3.33).
C. Highway Administration, Staff and Training
2.10      Administration of the public highway network is carried out by the
public works agencies of the various tiers of Government. At the national
level, DGH in the MPW has primary responsibility for road matters; road
agencies at lower levels are respectively provincial public works departments
(Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Propinsi - DPUP), kabupaten public works departments
(Dinas Pekerjaan Umum Kabupaten - DPUK) and variously named works agencies
below the kabupaten level. Because Indonesia is a unitary state, road
agencies at all levels of Government are part of a common system under the
control of the Central Government and under the technical leadership of DGH.
However, the practical application of these constitutional principles gives
rise to subtle and complex distinctions and to an administrative system with
many interlocking and evolving relationships.
2.11      DGH, an organization with less than 2,000 permanent employees, has
been responsible for the design and execution of most major road works in
Indonesia. It also coordinates the rehabilitation and maintenance and minor
construction programs which are carried out by the DPUPs with central funds
and it operates a national highway equipment pool and highway research and
testing facilities. It thus has at its disposal the largest team of skilled
highway technicians in Indonesia who directly and indirectly influence road



- 12 -
activities at all levels of administration. In addition DGH has recently
been given responsibility for most civil works at transmigration sites, in
particular land clearance and construction of roads.
2.12      While DGH has always relied on DPUPs for execution of rehabilitation
and maintenance, it has used its own central Directorates of Planning and
Construction to design and execute major road works. However, when road
construction surged with the added revenues generated by the oil price rise
in 1973, DGH decided to establish Regional Betterment Offices (RBOs) which
would design and supervise construction of betterment schemes. The betterment
program is the largest current DGH operation and provides for modest near-term
requirements on the highest priority links in the network. Four RBOs were
established for the islands of Sumatera, Java and Bali in 1976, partly with
finance from the Fourth Highway Project. Four more RBOs are now being estab-
lished, one in Kalimantan and one in Central Java with the help of ADB, and
two in Sulawesi with the help of the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA).
2.13      As the betterment program increases in volume and geographical
coverage, DGH is gradually devolving this function to the DPUPs. Eventually
all betterment works would be administered by DPUPs and the staff of the RBOs
would be dispersed among the DPUPs. For the present, the RBOs would continue
to handle some (major) contracts directly; DPUPs would participate in the
administration of other contracts and would look after the technical aspects
of these works if they are simple but would rely on the RBOs for assistance
with more complex engineering problems. These arrangements are further
discussed in para. 3.46.
2.14      The increasing volume of work has imposed strains on DGH and its
management. While the permanent staff has increased by less than 15% over the
past five years, DGH nonpermanent employees have more than doubled over this
period and DGH total staff now exceeds 4,000. Nevertheless, the shortage of
qualified staff remains an important problem in DGH operations. A DGH
manpower plan is under preparation with assistance from management consultants
financed under the Fourth Highway Project. This plan will formulate DGH
needs and how to meet them within the constraints imposed by the limited
supply of technical personnel in Indonesia and the modest pay scales offered
to Government employees.
2.15      Training has been, and will continue to be, a major element in DGH
manpower management. Training components were included under the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects which emphasized the establishment of training
procedures and the production of training material, particularly for skills
in road maintenance, equipment operation and materials testing. The proposed
loan includes further assistance for training, particularly in management of
DGH training activities, and would finance advanced overseas courses for DGH
professional staff (para. 3.32).
2.16      DGH has also sought to improve its operations by introducing
revised budgeting and control procedures. Management consultants financed
under the Fourth Highway Project have assisted in establishing a three-year



-- 13 -
rolling program budget (including both domestic and external financing) and
in improving monitoring and control of DGH's principal design and construction
work. As DGH's programs increase in size and complexity, the accuracy and
promptness of DGH's control mechanisms must be further increased and the
proposed project includes assistance for this purpose (para. 3.32). DGH also
believes that alternative organizational patterns may be required to increase
DGH's effectiveness and will establish internal task forces to consider such
questions. These task forces will be assisted by management consultants to be
financed under the proposed loan (para. 3.32).
2.17      Despite substantial efforts by DGH to expand and upgrade its staff,
DGH must rely heavily on consultants for planning, design and supervision of
road works and, due to the shortage of trained Indonesians, foreign consul-
tants will still carry a substantial part of this load. However, DGH has
taken several measures to assist local firms. Foreign firms are encouraged
to associate with local firms and under the Fourth Highway Project special
agreements were made between the associated firms to increase the transfer of
technical and managerial skills. The Fourth Highway Project also provided
for a survey by DGH of the local highway consulting industry but the results
were inconclusive because of inadequate response from the surveyed firms;
more intensive work will be undertake!n in connection with the Government's
program for Indonesia's consulting industry, with possible help from UNDP.
Finally, DGH intends to assist local firms by providing them with individual
foreign experts who would work as regular employees of the firms. This scheme
would be assisted under the proposed loan (para. 3.37). Moreover, DGH has
sought to standardize consultants' contracts and to monitor consultants'
performance to ensure that consulting services did not exceed its capacity to
absorb them. DGH actions thus represent a reasonable compromise between the
near-term technical requirements of its own expanded programs, and the longer-
range need to develop domestic skills in highway matters.
2.18      There are 27 DPUPs, one for each of Indonesia's provinces.  In the
larger provinces in Java, road functions are handled by a separate organiza-
tion within DPUP but in most provinces staff and equipment are shared by the
various public works functions of the DPUPs. DGH has completed a survey of
the road functions of all DPUPs assisted by consultants financed under the
Fourth Highway Project. The survey found wide variations in the technical
capacities of DPUPs, in the procedures applied by them in their work, in the
number and type of their staff and in the equipment available to them.
Roughly 500 persons with engineering degrees (about one-third masters and
two-thirds bachelors) are employed by the DPUPs with about 60 in each of the
large Java provinces and as few as 10 in the small remote provinces. Some
30,000 additional persons are employed in road functions by DPUPs. Equipment
holdings cover many thousands of individual items amongst which dump trucks,
steel wheel rollers, jeeps, pick-ups and motorcycles are the most numerous.
The survey clearly indicated that the UPUPs had quite different needs
from each other and that improvement programs had to be individually designed
for these needs. However, the survey could not evaluate the structure and
detailed road activities of individual DPUPs and therefore could not provide
a practical basis for individual improvement programs. DGH, assisted by
consultants financed under the Fourth Highway Project, therefore commissioned
a pilot study for the province of West Sumatera.



- 14 -
2.19      The pilot study has recommended an improvement program which is to
be assisted under the proposed loan (para. 3.24). Similar studies are to be
carried out in other provinces, followed by improvement programs. Seven more
of these studies are being carried out under the Fourth I1ighway Project and
the resulting programs are to be financed under the proposed loan (paras. 3.24
and 3.32). Studies of 18 other provinces are to be covered under the proposed
loan and the resulting improvement programs could be assisted in subsequent
highway loans for Indonesia.
2.20      Indonesia has 246 kabupatens (regencies or counties) and 54 kota-
madyas (incorporated municipalities), each with its own public works service.
As DGH develops improvement programs for selected DPUPs it also plans to
prepare parallel programs for the DPUKs in those provinces. A pilot study
covering four kabupatens in Yogyakarta Province has been completed by consul-
tants financed under the Fourth Highway Project. This study found that over
500 persons were employed on road works in those four kabupatens and recom-
mended significant upgrading of personnel and techniques to improve kabupaten
road operations. The study also suggests that there is enormous scope for
improving road operations throughout Indonesia at the subprovincial level,
and that a national program is needed which is directed to these operations.
Accordingly, the Bank is examining the possibility of a separate rural roads
project to finance road improvement programs in selected kabupatens.
D. Highway Planning
2.21      The main organization for highway planning is DGH's Directorate of
Planning (Chart WB-19496) which collects data on traffic and existing road
facilities, prepares general highway plans, and selects and evaluates indi-
vidual construction projects. The Directorate of Planning has made signi-
ficant progress in the field of planning during the last few years with the
help of technical assistance provided by IBRD (Fourth Highway Project) and
UNDP.  In 1975, DGH carried out a nationwide survey of regional development
potentials, traffic flows and consequent transportation needs, particularly
on the national and provincial road networks.  Based on the results of the
survey, a mid-range (about 10-year time horizon) planning methodology was
developed which was followed by a priority ranking of the proposed investments
link by link in the road network.  The ranking process formed the basis of a
rolling five-year highway program, and high priority road links were included
in DGH's road betterment program. Concurrently with the development of the
mid-range planning methodology, DGH has also been seeking a methodology for
long-range planning and has decided to make primary use of the regional
planning work by the Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning, and
Urban Development (Cipta Karya) in the MPW for this purpose. The proposed loan
therefore includes some technical assistance to Cipta Karya to help in this
work (para. 3.36). DGH highway planning work will be further expanded to
kabupaten roads for which DGH has been given new responsibilities under the
Third Five Year Plan (paras. 2.22 and 3.01).
E. Financing
2.22      Complete figures are not available on total expenditures for
Indonesia's public highway network outside DGH's own budget. The DGH budget



- 15 -
is only a portion of the Central Government's own expenditures on highways;
the Government also transfers large sums to the lower tiers of administration
either specifically earmarked for highways (e.g. payments to provinces for
highway maintenance) or for programs that include a lar3e umber of highway
works (e.g. kabupaten public works schemes such as under the so called
INPRES /1 program). In addition, the provinces and subprovincial units
finance from their own resources not only some routine maintenance costs but
also some new road construction or improvements under their development
budgets. The DPUP survey was able to compile information only on that part
of the DPUP expenditures which originated from central sources, and was
designated specifically for road pturposes. Between 1974/75 and 1976/77 these
funds averaged about Rps 34 billion for all of Indonesia. However a complete
accounting of all expenditures on roads cannot be made until surveys of DPUPs
and subprovincial roads functions are completed because the information can
only be obtained by analysis of the various (unpublished) budgets of each
governmental unit. As a result of new initiatives under the Third Plan
(para. 3.01), DGH will assume responsibility, jointly with the Ministry of
Home Affairs (MHA), for programming all Central Government funds For r,)al
activities by the provinces and kabupatens and as these funds represent the
bulk of the expenditures on roads aLt these levels, more comprehensive infor-
mation on road or,atlays should gradually become available in the future.
2.23      DGH has two budgets: routine, which covers the salaries of its
permanent employees aad also includes a small sum for road maintenance, and
development, which funds not only major construction projects but also large
expenditures for rehabilitation /2 and maintenance. Table 11 shows DGH
budgets over the past ten years, and Table 12 shows budgeted development
expenditures from both domestic and foreign sources for the past five years,
based on DGH's revised budgetary system. The tables indicate rises in
budget, particularly in 1974/75 when the large increase in oil revenues
accrued and when Indonesia experienced a 40% inflation. If the series are
deflated by the consumer price index, the 1977/78 development budget is about
1.62 times the 1971/72 budget (an increase of about 10% per year) and the
budgeted domestic and foreign development expenditures for 1977/78 are about
1.02 times the 1974/75 budget (virtually no increases); however, the better-
ment program more than doubled in real terms over the five year period.
Under Indonesian practice, budget funds are available until the end of the
particuLlar Five Year Plan (for the Second Plan until March 31, 1979) and
/1 Acronym for INSTRUKSI PRESIDEN, meaning special programs established by
presidential decrees.
/2  Rehabilitation referred in the First and Second Plans to heavy deferred
maintenance or restoration works. In the Third Plan rehabilitation will
only be used for periodic maintenance on roads aaita[.fiable by normal
maintenance methods (so-called "'stable" roads) which represent about
4,000 km of the national and provincial road system. Similar work on
"unstable" roads will be called support works in the Third Plan.



- 16 -
returns on actual expenditures have not yet been tabulated. DGH spent
roughly 80% of the funds allocated to it during the First Plan; it will
probably spend a somewhat larger proportion, about 83% during the Secono Ft-i
(Table 13).
2.24      The Fourth Highway Project included a study by consultants of road
user charges in Indonesia. The study estimated that revenues from all tax
sources (exclusive of kabupaten road levies, toll road charges, parking fees,
and commercial route license fees) on motor vehicles and their use, tires,
parts, and accessories averaged Rp 242.5 billion per year over the years 1974
to 1977. As diesel fuel is subsidized, the consultant considered the subsidy
to be a negative tax and therefore adjusted the average taxes paid down to
Rp 198.2 billion. In summary, average annual revenues and budgeted expendi-
tures over the four years worked out as follows:
(Rp billion)
Specific road user charges, except fuel taxes        95.8
Fuel taxes                                           65.0
Subtotal                                       160.8
General taxes on motor vehicles                      81.7
Total taxes                                     242.5
DGH and DPUP budgets                                 127.6
Actually spent of DGH and DPUP budgets (83%)        105.9
The conclusion from these calculations are discussed in the next paragraphs.
2.25      In a tax system which relies predominantly on indirect taxes, the
line becomes blurred between "user charges", such as fuel taxes, and general
taxes such as import duties on vehicles. Whatever criterion is used, however,
to define user charges in Indonesia, charges such as those above are on
a scale comparable with road expenditures, even if allowance is made for
substantial underreporting of road expenditures. On the other hand, the road
sector is much more heavily taxed in most other countries and by this criterion
represents an unexploited tax potential for Indonesia. This potential is
particularly significant in relation to the Government's overall drive to
raise more revenues and to reduce subsidies.
2.26      The Government has expressed interest in the results of the study
and will ask consultants to explore alternatives for raising taxes in this
sector; finance is included for such a study under the proposed loan (para.
3.33). The study would have to consider revised tax regulations in the
light of possible adjustments to fuel prices. During loan negotiations,
the Government indicated that it planned to moderate its present policy of
cheaply priced transport services by moving to a cost-based system of pricing
to encourage restraint in the use of resources and to generate revenues for
investment. This statement would guide the consultant in evaluation of tax



- 17 -
alternatives. The Government also agreed during loan negotiations
to take appropriate actions toward putting concrete recommendations for
increased taxes on road transport into effect.
F. Engineering
2.27      DGH's design work is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning. Its design offices are 'Located in Bandung which provides access to
the resources of the highly regarded Institute of Technology. With about 500
employees, of whom about one-third are permanent, the design office has
demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a broad range
of highway and bridge construction, and to supervise a large volume of design
work by consultants as well. In addition, the design off'ice provides tech-
nical assistance to provincial and district road authorities for design of
roads and bridges in their programs. The Directorate also has responsibility
for developing the engineering capabilities of the DPUPs (para. 2.10) and the
highway consulting industry. A first step in developing local consulting
firms was taken some years ago when DGH requested expatriate consultants to
associate with local firms for exec:ution of highway feasibility studies,
detailed engineering and construction supervision. The existing four RBOs
are all supported by expatriate consulting firms working closely with
Indonesian firms. A study of the dlomestic consulting industry in the
highway sector was carried out under the Fourth Highway Project; although the
results were less conclusive than expected, an assistance program for the
consulting industry has been formulated based on this study (para. 3.37).
With the shortage of graduate civil engineers in Indonesia, the Directorate
will need to make large-scale use of expatriate consultants over the next
several years but ongoing efforts to develop the local industry will be
intensified and strengthened.
G. Construction
2.28      Responsibility for highway construction lies with the Directorate
of Construction (Chart WB-19496) and is executed under a variety of arrange-
ments. Most typical for minor construction is the use of small contractors
who supply labor and local materials but use equipment and manufactured
materials supplied by the Government. Indonesia has a relatively small
number of experienced contracting firms capable of executing major road
works, and DGH has therefore used mainly foreign contractors on such jobs in
the past, as was the case in the Second and Third Highway Projects. Under
the Fourth Highway project, DGH prequalified several Indonesian contractors
who had adequate financial resources but only limited technical experience in
road works, provided that these firms made arrangements with foreign firms to
supply experienced key staff. Of the eighteen road sections included in the
Fourth Highway Project, only three were awarded to foreign contractors; five
Indonesian contractors were successful in tendering on eight road sections
(in three cases by application of the 7-1/2% preference clause for domestic
contractors), while joint ventures of Indonesian and foreign firms were



- 18 -
awarded the remaining road sections. The arrangements for management assist-
ance made by the Indonesian firms were less successful than hoped for because
the experts typically came in as advisors instead of as line managers, and
several of the contractors have serious problems with execution of the works.
The long-range development of the Indonesian construction industry was the
subject of a study sponsored by the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) and resulting in recommendations, the implementation of
which is proposed for financing under the project (para. 3.38). While the
highway construction industry eventually will benefit from this program, DGH
has proposed to take immediate steps for alleviating the problems affecting
ongoing contracts, as well as contracts likely to be awarded to Indonesian
contractors in the near future. The proposal includes technical assistance
to local contractors by an expatriate management firm which will make a
detailed study of the local contractor's work organization, prepare action
programs and hire the required key personnel for secondment to the local
firm on a short-term basis, with DCH subsidizing some of the initial costs
(para. 3.37).
2.29      The DPUPs are responsible for road works financed under the provin-
cial budgets. Some provinces also have force account construction units for
road building. Under the Fourth Highway Project, DGH took initial steps to
decentralize the execution of major betterment projects by establishing RBOs
who are responsible for the technical administration and supervision of the
works, while DGH's Director of Construction retained authority over the
non-technical and contractual matters. The RBOs maintained an informal
liaison with the DPUPs. With the expansion of the betterment program, DGH
plans to decentralize further by assigning more responsibilities to the
DPUPs. DGH will now delegate the technical and administrative authority for
execution of most DGH-financed road betterment projects or bridge replacement
projects on national and provincial roads to the DPUPs, provided the requi-
site experienced personnel for staffing of the project organization is
available at the provincial level. The RBOs will continue to provide support
to the DPUPs in regard to technical matters and will also continue to look
after some complex projects directly (Chart WB-19497). The DPUPs will also
make use of their own consultants for supervision of bridge works. An inten-
sive training program was arranged in 1978 for about 120 provincial engineers,
who will eventually be appointed to the project administrations for the
foreign-aided betterment and bridge replacement projects.
H. Maintenance
2.30      Maintenance of the national and provincial roads is carried out by
the DPUPs, partly with provincial funds and partly with funds supplied by the
National Government, through the budgets of DGH, and the Directorates General
of Administration and Regional Autonomy in the MHA. Complete data are not
available on total expenditures for maintenance outside DGH's own budget and
a separate investigation is required for each province to establish what
funds are being spent on maintenance. Such investigations are one of the
main objectives of the DPUP studies (para. 3.24) and include an analysis of
the DPUP routine budget, an allocation of DPUP expenditures between road and



- 19 -
nonroad outlays and an assessment of rnaterial contributions, such as asphalt,
which are provided by DGH free of charge outside the DPUP budget.  I'he DPUJP
studies will also obtain information on the extent and quality of the maini-
tenance effort and develop action programs appropriate for each province to
strengthen the organization, administration and execution of maintenance.
Such action programs were to have been formulated as a result of work under
the Fourth Highway Project, but the complexity of the problems required much
more analysis than had originally been envisaged.
2.31      While information is lacking, on the exact amounts spent on main-
tenance of national and provincial roads, it is clear that substantial
amounts are being budgeted for this purpose. DGH estimates that about
US$1,000 equivalent per km is allocated annually for maintenance of the
national roads and US$600 equivalent per km on provincial roads. Rehabili-
tation,/I which is heavy deferred mairttenance and which will be called
support works /2 under the Third Plan, is estimated to require a budget of
about US$10,000 per km on some 2-3,000 km of national and provincialL roads
rehabilitated each year. Moreover, shLarp increases are projected by DGH
under its budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1979, in the combined
amounts for rehabilitation, support works, and maintenance from a yearly level
of Rp 14.1 billion to 32.8 billion.
2.32      Past efforts have achieved significant results so that by 1973, 95%
of the primary network was open to traffic as against 70% five years earlier,
and 60% of the passable roads were judged in good or fair condition in 1973
compared with about 15% in 1968. Nevertheless, maintenance administration
could be further substantially improved which would not only increase the
riding quality and service life of the roads but also save on high unit
maintenance costs. Such improvements will, however, have to be designed
individually for each province and are one of the main aims of the DPUP
improvement programs to be financed under the proposed loan (para. 3.23).
2.33      As reform at the DPUP level will take several years to imple-
ment, existing systems will, over the interim, remain the primary basis for
road maintenance. The Government has in fact increased the amount for
rehbilitation, support works, and maintenance under the DGH budget for the
year 1979/80 and has increased DGH technical inputs for such funds being
provided under the MHA budget. Also, as in the Fourth Highway Project, the
contractor on each road whose improvement will be financed under the proposed
loan will be required under the agreed bid documents, to prepare an initial
maintenance program for that road for review and approval by the appropriate
RBO. As the contractor will have become thoroughly familiar with local con-
ditions, he will be in an advantageous position to devise the necessary new
and better maintenance operations to protect the investment. The Government
agreed during negotiations that it will ensure that the roads are maintained
in accordance with these approved maintenance programs.
/1 See definition in para 2.23.
/12 See definition in para. 3.01.



- 20 -
2.34      The limited information on subprovincial roads suggests that
maintenance effort and techniques are not adequate. A proposed rural roads
project will address this problem, based in part on a pilot rural roads
study financed under the Fourth Highway Project (para 2.20).
I. Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects
2.35      Bank Group lending for highways in Indonesia has been adapted to the
evolving needs of the highway system. The First Highway Project for US$28 mil-
lion equivalent (Credit 154-IND, June 1969) helped restore communications
in Indonesia after a long period of neglect by providing equipment and
materials for rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of roads. In addition, the
project included finance for workshop equipment and for consulting services
to improve maintenance. The project was coupled with a large technical
assistance effort from UNDP (with the Bank as executing agency) which covered
all aspects of highway operations. After the initial four years, the UNDP
project continued on a small scale until the fall of 1978, and was primarily
directed to assistance in highway planning. While the First Project made a
significant contribution to rehabilitation of individual roads, its most
important results lay in the help it provided in the management of the
overall rehabilitation program and in establishing at DGH the basis for
sound highway institutions at the national level. The project also helped
the DPUPs to execute the bulk of the rehabilitation works for which they were
responsible, but it was less successful in strengthening the DPUPs.
2.36      The Second and Third Highway Projects supported the next phase of
Indonesia's road program: construction of selected major links in the more
remote areas of the country. The Second Project for US$34 million (Credit
260-IND, June 1971) was used primarily to help rebuild a section of the
Trans-Sumatera Highway in an area which has since become a major site for
transmigration, and is slated for development under the Bank's proposed
Second Transmigration Project. The Third Project for US$14 million (Credit
388-IND, May 1973) helped finance reconstruction of a road to a new irrigation
area in Sulawesi. Both these projects also made significant contributions
toward planning future road works as they provided for studies on the trunk
road between Medan and Padang in Sumatera and on the regional road system in
Central and South Sumatera, and studies for road improvements on over 2,300
km of roads in varicus parts of Indonesia. The Third Highway Project also
included an important training component which initiated courses and set up a
nationwide training system for highway personnel.
2.37      The construction element under the Second Project was completed in
1977 only slightly behind schedule and somewhat beyond cost estimates. The
construction part of the Third Project was completed in December 1978 with
some delays due to mobilization problems in a very remote area and exceptionally
wet weather, and with substantial cost increases due to underestimates of
quantities and sharp price increases after the oil price rise. The study
elements under the Second Project have been restructured several times to
accommodate unforeseen shifts in traffic patterns and were finished at the end



- 21 -
of 1978, while the study components under the Third Project were carried out
over the period 1974-78 and formed the basis for lending by the Bank (Fourth
Highway Project), by ADB, and by bilateral lenders from Japan and Germany.
2.38      The Fourth Highway Project for US$130 million (Loan 1236-IND, March
1976) represented a new departure in several ways. It included a detailed
review of DGH's overall program and (i) sponsored the establishment of DGH
regional offices to evaluate, design and supervise the construction of
betterment works according to uniform national criteria; (ii) supported a
large scale and complex program of major construction projects; these were
presented for Bank consideration both before and after loan signature and are
being carried out all over the country by international tendering procedures;
(iii) included assistance to strengthen virtually all functions of DGH; (iv)
helped initiate studies of other institutions concerned with highways such as
provincial and kabupaten public work agencies, and consultants and contractors
engaged in highway works; and (v) provided for studies of highway laws, road
user charges, and vehicle weights and' dimensions criteria. The Fourth Project
responded to the sudden increase in DGH's betterment program which was made
possible by the new funds available to Indonesia after the oil price
rise in 1973. The Bank's project contributed not only by providing matching
funds for construction, but also by helping DGH to cope with its expanded
workload.
2.39      The results of the Fourth Project have been significant.  Not only
have over 1,200 km of road improvements been put under contract, with some of
these nearing completion by the middle of 1979, but positive changes have been
effected in planning, design, budgeting, and control procedures of DGH.
Studies have also been completed on major policy issues such as user charges,
vehicle weights and dimensions, and on DPUPs and rural roads.
2.40      Despite its broad scope, the Fourth Project did not address the full
range of DGH's programs and of other institutions concerned with highways in
Indonesia, particularly at the DPUP and lower levels of administration. The
proposed project represents a further development of the Fourth Project by
proposing finance for:
(a) components of DGH's bridge replacement program (paras. 3.21 and
3.29);
(b) some works executed by provincial public work departments (para.
3.24);
(c) measures to study and improve the highway institutions in some
provincial governments; (para. 3.32);
(d) expenditures to upgrade road maintenance (para. 3.23); and
(e) outlays to strengthen Indonesian highway consultants and con-
tractors (para. 3.37).



- 22 -
However, even the proposed project provides only a partial overview of
Indonesia's highway operations and does not offer financial assistance to all
of Indonesia's highway activities. Notable exceptions are:
(a)  the new construction (as distinguished from betterment) activities
of DGH:
(b)  most of the extensive urban highway activities of DGH;
(c)  the highway activities and institutions of most provincial govern-
ments; and
(d)  the highway activities and institutions of all governnental units
below the provinces.
2.41      The proposed project builds on the approach adopted in the Fourth
Project by: (i) expanding the use of methodologies specially designed for
Indonesia to allow DGH easily and quickly to define the project elements for
financing under the loan (betterment works, bridge replacement, provincial
public works department improvement programs); (ii) increasing the number of
institutions to be strengthened by special programs; (iii) further fostering
indigenization of design and execution through assistance to local firms; and
(iv) further supporting decentralization of highway operations in Indonesia.
2.42      Bank Group lending to Indonesia for highways has been adjusted
over the years to allow for an increase in the scale of lending, for a
step-by-step strengthening of the institutions concerned with highways in
Indonesia, for a parallel shift of responsibility over detailed execution of
Bank Group projects to the borrower, and for an expanding and increasingly
thorough overview on Indonesia's highway sector and policy issues in that
sector. Thus, lending is increasingly characterized by features of sector
lending. Much remains to be determined about some of the DGH programs which
need to be defined in detail such as the urban road program, and about DGH
operations such as its personnel and control systems, and more gaps exist in
the knowledge of road institutions and programs at lower levels of Government.
These gaps cannot be overlooked because they have a particular impact on
disadvantaged groups such as the urban and rural poor. It will thus be some
years before sufficient information is available to permit a review of
Indonesia's highway sector as a whole and of institutions of that sector.
Measures are underway to gather this information but it will take some time,
perhaps five years, before the requisites for full sector lending will be at
hand.
3. THE PROJECT
A. DGH Development Program
3.01      The proposed project is based on the Third Plan DGH Development
Program (April 1, 1979 to March 31, 1984). This Program continues the emphasis
of the Second Plan Program on low-cost, quick-return betterment schemes which



- 23 -
are intended to minimize the demands on the public treasury by gradually
improving the national and provincial road network so that it can be kept
serviceable by routine and periodic mnaintenance only. The betterment com-
ponent encompasses as well the permanent restoration of routes'which have
become unusable (usually in remote areas). A bridge replacement component in
the Program also continues, at a significantly expanded scale, from the
previous Plan; it aims to overcome a large backlog of bridges which have
collapsed or are in dangerous condit:Lon and whose replacement will greatly
increase mobility at modest cost. Both betterments and bridge replacements
will be assisted under the proposed project. The Third Five-Year Plan
introduces two novel features regard:ing road operations. It increases the
programming responsibility of DGH with regard to road funds allocated to the
provinces and kabupatens from the budget of the MHA and it provides an addition
for kabupaten roads to DGH's own budget which had previously only financed
national and provincial roads. The f-unds from MHA are partly for bridge
replacements, but the major portion i.s for rehabilitation, support works,/1
and maintenance. The DGH funds for kabupaten roads are also for support
works. The effect of these innovations is to place increased emphasis on
maintenance and support works and on the rural (kabupaten) road system.
3.02      Table 13 indicates the accomplishments of the Second Plan Program
by the end of the Plan period, March 31, 1979. Physical accomplishments fell
below targets except for completed new construction and bridge replacements.
The most substantial shortfall was in betterments and rehabilitation, the
former due to delays in starting the program and the latter due to reduced
frequency of rehabilitation. Development budget expenditures exceeded
targets overall while foreign aid disbursements were only a little more than
one half of expectations, which reflects the complexities associated with
foreign aid procedures.
3.03      The Government has prepared a table to show the physical targets
and monetary allocations (broken down between development budget and foreign
aid) for all roads to be covered by DGH programming (Table 14). This table
is summarized below and compared with DGH's own program for the Second
Plan.
/1  Support works are works to sustain the trafficable condition on roads
whose running surfaces cannot be kept in that condition by routine
(predictable and modest) maintenance expenditures and which do not
qualify for betterment or which have been approved for betterment but
require interim treatment until betterment is completed.



- 24 -
Second Plan Allocations            Third Plan Allocations
Items                           % of                            % of        % of
Rp billion/a  Subtotal II   Rp billion /a  Subtotal II  total
----------------- Allocations to DGH -------------------
National and Provincial Roads
New construction          180          28.1            340 (150 urban) 20.4       15.0
Betterment                260          40.6            620 (160 urban) 37.1       27.4
Bridge replacement        120          18.8            390 (30 urban)  23.4       17.3
Rehabilitation,        )
support works, and )   80            12.5            170              10.1       7.5
maintenance          )
Subtotal I            640         100.0           1,520              91.0      67.2
Kabupaten Roads
Support works               0           0.0            150               9.0       6.7
Subtotal II           640         100.0           1,670             100.0      73.9
----------------- Allocations to MHA -------------------
Provincial and Kabupaten Roads
Bridge replacement         n.a.         n.a.           250                        11.1
Rehabilitation,
support works,   }      n.a.         n.a.            340                        15.0
and maintenance
Subtotal III           n.a.         n.a.            590                 -      26.1
Total                   n.a.        n.a.          2,260                 -    100.0
/a   Rounded to nearest 10 billion.
While the absolute values are not comparable because they are expressed in
current rupiahs, the relative position of individual items shows the continued
preponderance of betterments in DGH's own allocations, increased emphasis on
bridge replacements both in the DGH and MHA allocations, and the large emphasis
on rehabilitation, support works, and maintenance which account for nearly 30%
of the combined allocations. The relative decline in new construction is due
to the fact that the Government plans to build many new roads as toll roads which
will be financed largely outside the budget through tolls and revenue bonds.
Features of Proposed Program
3.04      As DGH has just been given its wider programming responsibility, it
has not yet formulated concrete plans on how it will exercise this reponsibility.
For the present, DGH is concentrating on activities based on allocations to



- 25 -
DGH itself, and those activities (the DGH Development Program) form the basis
of the proposed loan.  While the total allocation to DGH has been determined,
annual allocations are available only for the first year o-. the elan, i
A comparison between the 1978/79 and [979/80 programs and the average annual
program for the Third Plan is given below.
1978/79             1979/80         One fifth of Third
Current   Current         1978/79      Plan Allocation
Items               rupiah    rupiah          rupiah /a   Current rupiah
New construction            20.7        66.9             46.6             67.3
Betterment            1    75.7        160.1            113.3           202.0
Bridge replacement
Rehabilitation,        }
support works, and }    14.1          32.8             24.1            34.0
maintenance         }
Rural roads                  0.0        13.0              9.5            30.0
Overhead                     9.2   (incl. above)  (incl. above)  (incl. above)
Total                119.7       272.8             193.5           333.3
/a Adjusted for 50% devaluation and 30% inflation.
The proposed 1979/80 DGH program shows a steep rise from the previous year's
program; this is true even if allowance is made for the intervening devalua-
tion and inflation. The rise in new construction is attributable to full-
scale work commencing on projects started in previous years while the rise in
betterment and bridge replacement reflects continued rapid expansion of these
programs. Increased emphasis on rehabilitation, support works, and main-
tenance results in the growth of that item. A comparison between 1979/80
program and the average annual program for the Third Plan indicates that the
program will continue to rise in current terms but at a less rapid rate. The
effect of continued inflation may further erode this increase in real terms.
While the expansion at the beginning of the Plan may be considered ambitious,
it is counterbalanced by more modest goals in later years which could accom-
modate a limited stretch-out of earlier years' work, if necessary. Such a
stretch-out might occur if, as in the previous Plan, some foreign funds were
not obtained in the amounts anticipated. The works to be financed under the
proposed loan would, of course, not be affected by this factor.
Procedures for Formulating Proposed Program
3.05      The rationale of the proposed Third Plan Development Program is
provided by the rolling five-year plan which is the result of the DCH medium-
term planning procedure. This procedure projects traffic on all links of the
system; projections were originally based on regional traffic flow analyses
and are now periodically updated, based on traffic counts, investment proposals



- 26 -
and other information on current economic activity. The procedure also
assesses the capacity on each link; capacity was originally determined by
detailed inventories and is now revised with current reports on the road and
traffic conditions. On this basis, a work program is propc,ec for each link
ranging from only routine maintenance of the existing road to construction of
an entirely new road. The alternatives are assessed on the basis of benefit-
cost criteria, likely budget constraints and considerations of regional
balance in the allocation of funds. The process is repeated annually and the
program adjusted accordingly; the Third Plan Development Program constitutes
a more formal version of this year's rolling five-year plan. DGH is cur-
rently working on a long-range planning procedure which would help improve
the analysis of options which have a long pay-off period and which would be
keyed to regional planning work at Cipta Karya. Consultants to be financed
under the proposed project will assist Cipta Karya's work (para. 3.36).
3.06      DGH has formulated a number of policies to guide the evaluation of
options in the road planning process. The most important of these is an
emphasis on near term, low-cost solution. For that reason, betterment is
favored over new construction, and betterment projects are designed for only
a ten-year life. Similarly, rehabilitation (support works) are applied on
low traffic roads and DGH is seeking to introduce more widely low-cost
solutions under this category of work such as regravelling and lighter
bituminous surface treatments. On the other hand, on roads with substantial
traffic volumes betterments are favored over rehabilitation (support works)
because betterments are more cost-effective for such roads.
3.07      DGH is also trying to make the road system more stable, that is, to
reduce the need for extraordinary interventions such as support works and
replacement of dangerous or collapsed bridges, thereby making the conserva-
tion of the road network amenable to routine and periodic maintenance, and
its renewal to a planned construction program. DGH therefore also favors
continued strengthening of maintenance capacity in order to meet demands
which are implied by the foregoing policies.  Finally, DGH is exercising
great prudence in expanding road capacity; such investments are reserved for
the highest priority cases and are frequently included only as marginal items
in individual road betterment projects.
3.08      While the five-year rolling plan determines the general dimensions
of the DGH program, individual proposals are further analyzed as follows:
(a) new construction by feasibility studies;
(b) betterments by the screening-feasibility procedures;
(c) bridge replacements by procedures similar to screening-feasibility
procedures for betterments;
(d) support works and maintenance by standardized traffic and other
criteria; and
(e) urban road works by feasibility studies or some similar procedures
for assessing economic viability.



- 27 -
The most complex among the foregoing are the screening-feasibility procedures.
As they also represent the largest volume of work, they have been established
to foster uniformity and to simplify repetitive analyses.
3.09      The screening-feasibility procedures for road betterments involve
several interlocking groups. The Screening-Feasibility Project (SFP) is
being carried out by a group of DGH engineers and economists working with
expatriate experts (ENEX of New Zealand) in setting guidelines for engineer-
ing, in reviewing engineering, and in providing economic evaluation of road
betterment proposals. Engineering work is carried out by the RBOs, assisted
by consultants, or by DGH engineers, sometimes assisted by consultants
Analyses include sufficiency engineering to formulate proposed treatments for
the roads, so-called sufficiency engineering proposals (SEPs), a prelim-
inary economic evaluation, preliminary engineering where the SEP does not
yield a conclusive economic evaluation, feasibility study based on pre-
liminary engineering, detailed engineering, and final econornic evaluation.
These procedures were established wit'h assistance from the Fourth Highway
Project which provided financing for the consultants to SFP and the four
original RBOs. As of September 30, 1978, the RBOs and other Indonesian
engineers and economists with the assistance of consultants have completed
6,888 km of SEPs for roads and 943 km of detailed engineering for roads. SFP
has provided evaluations for 5,092 km of SEPs and 496 km of detailed engi-
neering for roads. The procedures for bridge replacement evaluations are
patterned on those for betterment except that DPUP, not DGH, engineers are to
prepare most of the proposals and designs.
Evaluation of Proposed Program
3.10      The Third Plan DGH Development Program addresses the principal
needs of Indonesia's road sector; it emphasizes the main interurban links but
also provides for rural and urban roads. The effectiveness of this Program
will be measurably increased through the integration into a broader road
programming process. The program is based on comprehensive planning procedures
which will be strengthened through elements of the proposed loan (paras. 3.32,
3.33 and 3.35).
3.11      The Development Program appropriately seeks to establish a basic
highway system which will be relatively free of frequent, unpredictable
breakdowns of pavements and bridges and which can be managed by planned
maintenance and renewal procedures. At the same time, the Program stresses
economy in design with only marginal additions to capacity, and quick and
high return investments and improved maintenance. The Program is coupled
with parallel actions to improve the institutions concerned with highways, at
DGH and lower levels of Government and in the consulting and construction
industries. The Program is thus a logical basis for an integrated effort to
improve a sector which plays a vital role in economic and social development.
3.12      The Third Plan Program like its predecessor is ambi'tious and places
great demands on the institutions concerned with Indonesia's highways.
However, DGH's performance under the Fourth Project augurs well for its
ability to handle the added workload which will accrue over t'he next five



- 28 -
years. While some delays occurred initially in awarding contracts and in
hiring consultants, and while some of the studies and some of the managerial
reforms   which DGH proposed making were not carried out to the extent
contemplated, DGH has made substantial progress in the execution of the
Fourth Project: it now has over 1,200 km under construction, many with local
contractors and supervised by Indonesian engineers; it has instituted
important managerial changes; its consultants have concluded several signi-
ficant policy studies; and it has completed, with the aid of both foreign and
domestic consultants, a large volume of engineering work and economic evalu-
ations (paras. 2.38 and 2.39).
3.13      DGH also is taking measures specifically designed to improve
management of its expanding workload. A detailed manpower plan is under
preparation (para. 2.14) which will be implemented by vigorous training
programs (para. 3.32). DGH is constituting task forces to study and recommend
on management and organizational problems (para. 3.32). It is also refining
its planning and monitoring procedures (para. 3.32). DGH is promoting
Indonesian highway consultants and contractors by training, provision of
expert staff and other means to expand and improve the essential contribution
these firms are making to the DGH program (para. 3.37). The proposed loan
will provide financial support for each of these measures. DGH also is
making substantial but judicious use of foreign consultants to ensure that
these consultants only provide services as long as the supply of Indonesian
technicians is inadequate to meet the requirements of a rapidly expanding
workload, and provided the use of consultants does not impair full operational
control by DGH and the growth of managerial and technical competence within
Indonesia.
3.14      The Bank will also make special provision for smooth execution of
the proposed loan. The semiannual reviews of the DGH program, which were
arranged in connection with the Fourth Highway Project, will be continued.
DGH will continue to employ monitoring consultants to provide DGH and the
Bank with a better overview of the whole project.
3.15      The project will be making a contribution to many of the DGH
program components. In addition to betterment works, the proposed loan will
provide finance for bridge replacements, for support works and maintenance
(under the DPUP improvement programs), and for the urban program through
bypasses around, and thoroughfares through, towns constructed in connection
with betterment schemes. In addition, rural roads will be assisted through a
proposed Bank rural roads loan.
3.16      While the contribution to the betterment program is still the
largest element in the proposed loan, that contribution has declined in
relation to the betterment program as a whole which reflects the rapidly
increasing participation by other foreign lenders in the program, and
will cover not more than 25% of the betterment projects started by DGH in its
fiscal year 1979/80. The Bank contribution will allow DGH to raise the
annual starts of betterment works to between 2,000 and 3,000 km from its
present rate of between 1,000 and 2,000 km.



- 29 -
3.17      Finally, the Fourth Highway Loan and the proposed loan together
would cover not more than 10% of the estimated DGH outlays during the next
two DGH fiscal years and a declining share thereafter (if the Bank were to
make no further loans to DGH). The proposed loan is designed to provide
Bank lending for purposes and in amounts which will give the greatest help to
the Third Plan DGH Development Program.
B. Description
3.18      The project has two basic thrusts, support for physical works in
the DGH program and support for strengthening sectoral institutions and
policies. It comprises the following elements:
(a)  construction and supervision by consultants of about 800 km of
road improvements all over Indonesia and of about 4,000 m (one-lane
equivalent) of bridge replacements in Sumatera (an area with a
particularly large backlog of bridge works) to be approved by the
Bank before December 31, 1979, upon submission, in each case, of
appropriate documentation by DGH:
(b) execution of DPUP improvement programs in eight provinces;
(c) purchase of highway safety equipment;
(d) screening-feasibility studies /1 of about 6,000 in (one lane
equivalent) of bridge replacements, and detailed engineering of
about 4,000 m from the foregoing for construction under (a) above;
(e) screening-feasibility studies /1 of about 1,500 km of roads for
betterment located in Sumatera, West Java, East Java and
Bali, and detailed engineering of about 1,000 km of roads for
betterment selected from the foregoing;
(f) studies and similar measures to strengthen Indonesia's highway
authorities;
(g) studies on selected aspects of highways and road transport;
(h)  advisory assistance for transport planning in the MOC, Cipta Karya
and DKI; and
/1 The screening process provides (a) on the basis of a field review and
engineering sufficiency analysis of existing roads or bridges, recommen-
dations on whether or not a road or bridge needs improvement and recom-
mendations on whether or not more intensive investigations, that is, full
feasibility studies, are warranted in particular cases; (b) criteria for
proceeding with detailed engineering of improvements which are found to
be warranted on the basis of (a); and (c) full feasibility studies for
improvements which will require more intensive investigations (estimated
at about 20% of the roads and 5% of the bridges to be screened).



- 30 -
(i) selected measures to assist the Indonesian consulting and
construction industry.
All the foregoing components will be assisted by Bank financing except for
certain parts of (f), as noted below.
(a) Construction of about 800 Km of Road Improvements and of
about 4,000 M of Bridge Replacements.
3.19      The road sections to be improved will be located in all parts of
Indonesia and will be selected on the basis of the process described in
para. 3.09 above. A sample of sections comprising about 525 km has been
reviewed for evaluation of this process (para. 4.16). For each road section
to be included under the project, the Bank will receive from DGH the results
of detailed engineering and bidding, and of the economic evaluation. About
500 km of road sections have been advertised for tender but award will not be
made until after approval of the loan by the Executive Directors.
3.20      The road improvements consist primarily of pavement reconstruction
or strengthening work with some widening of carriageways, widening and
strengthening of shoulders, and minor adjustment to vertical and horizontal
alignments. Other adjustments on the selected road sections include drainage
improvements, replacement or strengthening of weak bridges, and widening of
narrow bridges where appropriate. Improvements are being designed to the
requirements of individual sections but typically these requirements will
correspond roughly to Class II C or Class III standard (Table 4). As a result
of the improvements, the pavement surfaces will no longer be subject to rapid
deterioration, traffic carrying capacity of the roads will be increased, and
cheaper and more rapid transportation will facilitate regional development.
3.21      The bridge replacements will be identified from existing inventories
of bridges in Sumatera, by application of screening-feasibility procedures to
bridges which have collapsed or are in a dangerous condition or bridges which
are below the load carrying capacity of other bridges on particular routes or
below the target load carrying capacity for those routes. Documentation for
a sample bridge, including screening-feasibility review and detailed design,
has been reviewed for evaluation of procedures (para. 4.22). For each
bridge to be included, the Bank will receive from DGH the results of detailed
engineering and bidding and of the economic evaluation.
3.22      The replacement bridges will be designed to a standard conforming
to the routes on either side of the bridges and, in appropriate cases, may
incorporate a higher design standard if such a standard could be anticipated
in the adjoining road sections over the next 10-20 years. The bridge replace-
ments are intended to eliminate the economic and social disruptions resulting
from collapsed bridges, to avoid the high costs incurred from detours or
temporary crossing facilities, and to reduce transport costs through the use
of larger, more economical trucks, thereby increasing regional growth.



- 31 -
(b) Execution of DPUP Improvement Programs in Eight Provinces
3.23      A separate program is to be proposed by DGH for each DPUP on the
basis of a study made of the DPUP with the help of consiltAnts and is to be
approved by the Bank before August 31, 1979. Each program spanning five
years is to have at least the following components:
(i)  physical targets for improved maintenance;
(ii)  physical targets for other principal DPUP activities
such as betterment, bridge replacement and support works;
(iii) plans for maintenance and disposition of equipment;
(iv) personnel plans, including types and numbers of required
skills, disposition of personnel and training targets, and
(v) projected financial operations, including budgetary contributions
from all sources.
Each program shall be formalized between DPUP and DGH, with an indication of
the mutual contributions by each party, and of the financing which would be
provided by the Bank in support of the DGH contribution. The Government
has agreed to cause each program to be carried out in accordance with its
terms. Bank financing would be for:
(i)  purchases of equipment, such as dump trucks, graders, bitumen
sprayers, and motorcycles for supervision;
(ii) major support works of a capital nature, such as penetration
macadam overlays or regravelling; and
(iii)  technical assistance including training (further described in
para. 3.32).
The final date for Bank approval of equipment purchases and for support works
to be financed under the proposed loan will be agreed at the time of approval
of each DPUP program. As the execution period for such purchases and works is
less than two years, the final date for Bank approval can be later than for
betterment works and bridge replacements. According to present estimates,
the funds in the proposed loan would be adequate to assist support works in
the eight provinces for the three-year period beginning April 1, 1980. DGH
will submit annually for the Bank's concurrence details on support works to
be executed in the following year tinder each program.
3.24      An initial study of the I)PUP of West Sumatera (Map IBRD-11746R)
has been completed. This study was done jointly by DGH, the West Sumatera
DPUP and management consultants financed under the Fourth Highway Project
(W.D. Scott of Australia). Similar studies have been started for seven other
provinces by DGH and the DPUPs of those provinces, with the same consultants,



- 32 -
and are scheduled for completion in August 1979. These studies will use the
methodology developed in the West Sumatera study. These eight studies will be
the basis of DPUP improvement programs financed under tht. proposed
Eighteen additional studies in other provinces (para. 3.32) will provide the
basis for Bank financing of DPUP improvement programs in subsequent loans for
highways in Indonesia.
3.25      The principal purposes of the DPUP improvement programs are:
(i) to upgrade the condition of the national and provincial
roads in each province by improving maintenance;
(ii) to enable DPUPs to assume more responsibility for planning,
designing and constructing roads and thus support devolution
of these functions from DGH;
(iii) to make DPUP road operations less costly;
(iv) to enable DPUPs to provide better technical support for the
roads activities at lower levels of government, such as
kabupatens.
The DPUP improvement programs will also benefit non-road functions, such
as irrigation and building maintenance where these are carried out, as is
frequently the case, by the same forces as road maintenance. An evaluation
of the sample DPUP program in West Sumatra is provided in paras. 4.23-4.29.
The DPUP programs will be carried out under the joint responsibility of the
DPUP and DGH, and a technical support consultancy to DGH will be established
(para. 3.31) whose functions will include monitoring progress of the program,
advising DPUPs on technical matters and arranging for training of DPUP
personnel.
(c) Purchase of Highway Safety Equipment
3.26      Consultants to be retained by MOC will prepare a highway safety
program (para. 3.34). The consultants' report is expected by mid-1980 and
the MOC will then formulate a Government program, in consultation with the
Bank, by December 31, 1980. The program is expected to include appropriate
policy changes as well as introduction of highway safety equipment, such as
vehicle testing equipment. The proposed loan therefore includes finance
for such equipment in order that 140C can proceed promptly with implementation
of the program.
Supervision of Construction
3.27      Supervision of road improvement works will be provided by either
DGH or the DPUPs. When DGH submits a construction item for financing, it
will also advise the method of supervision to be employed. Consultancies to
the RBOs will be arranged for supervisory services; these arrangements will
be communicated to the Bank for its approval at the time individual items of
construction are submitted for approval; supervisory consultancies may be



- 33 -
arranged either by extension of existing RBO consultancies or by making
arrangements with new firms; however, the RBOs will continue to rely on one
firm of consultants to provide core services for the RBO. Supervision of
bridge replacement works will be provrided by the DPUPs who will be assisted
by consultants retained by them. Major support works will be executed by the
DPUPs by force account and will not require formal supervision. However, DGH
is planning an improved monitoring system for support work activities.
3.28      DGH will seek to provide ftill scope for the employment of local
consultants for supervision, an objective which will be assisted by the pro-
vision of selected expatriates under item (i) of para. 3.18. As heretofore,
foreign consulting firms employed on supervision will work in combination
with local firms. The staffing of these consortia has been increasingly
Indonesian and the foreign cost component of supervison has been reduced from
55% in the Fourth Highway Project to 50% in the proposed loan.
(d) Screening-feasibility studies of about 6,000 m (one lane equivalent)
of bridge replacements in Sumatera, and detailed engineering of
about 4,000 m from the foregoing for construction under (a) above.
3.29      Inventories have been prepared of the approximately 16,000 bridges
on the national and provincial roads, aggregating about 280,000 m in length.
About 85% of these bridges were built before 1942, while the rest were built
since 1962; thus a significant proportion of the bridges are approaching the
end of their useful lives. The inventory also indicated that in the provinces
covered by the original four RBOs, bridge conditions were significantly worse
in the Sumatera provinces; of the approximately 4,500 bridges on that island,
aggregating about 75,000 m in length, 20% (900 bridges aggregating 15,000 m)
were tentatively identified as needing replacement. Some of these replace-
ments will be undertaken as part of road betterment schemes but the backlog
is large enough that for some time DGlH has pursued a bridge replacement
program which it now wishes to accelerate. Accordingly, DGH proposes to
apply the SFP process to the screening, design and economic evaluation of
about one fourth of the bridges identLfied for replacement in Sumatera.
3.30      UGH estimates that approximately 6,000 m of bridges will need to
be screened; approximately 85% will represent short bridges with an average
length of lOm, 10% medium bridges with an average length of 35m, and 5% long
bridges with an average length of 75m. Preliminary proposals for the short
bridges will be prepared mostly by the eight Sumatera DPUPs with some help
from the RBOs, and for the longer bricdges by DGH's central design office or
by the RBOs. SFP will review these proposals, and designs will then be
prepared for about 4,000 m of the acceptable proposals by the agencies who
prepared them. Assistance for design will be provided through the RBOs. SFP
will then make a final review and economic evaluation.  The additional con-
sulting services which will be required at the RBOs will be arranged either by
extension of the existing RBQ consultancies or by separate arrangements with
other firms, and financed under the proposed loan.  Some additional consulting
services also is required at the SFP ciffice which is being provided through
extension of the contract with the present consultants (ENEX of New Zealand)
and financed under the Fourth Highway Project.



- 34 -
(e) Screening-feasibility studies of about 1,500 Km of Roads and
Detailed Engineering of about 1,000 Km of Roads
3.31      The periodic review of the Five-Year Rolling Plan will result in
additional roads to be screened and designed for betterment. The four new
RBOs (Chart WB-19496) which are being established with ADB and Canadian help
(para. 2.12) will handle screening-feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing for betterments over the next several years in Central Java, Kalimantan
and Sulawesi (two RBOs). The Fourth Highway Project includes finance to
maintain the screening-feasibility and detailed engineering processes in the
original four RBOs through roughly 1979. However, about two more years will
be required beyond 1979 before these processes are fully integrated into
Indonesia's highway planning routines. In the meantime the four RBOs will
increasingly use Indonesian firms although some foreign consultants will still
be needed. Accordingly, the proposed loan includes finance for consultancies
to the four original RBOs to assist in screening-feasibility work for about
1,500 km to be executed in 1980, and for consultancies to these RBOs to
execute in 1980 and 1981 detailed engineering on about 1,000 km to be selected
from the foregoing. The SFP functions exercised by Central DGH are not
expected to require help from abroad beyond the end of 1979; assistance
through 1979 is being provided under the Fourth Highway Project.
(f)  Studies and Similar Measures to Strengthen Indonesia's Highway
Authorities
3.32      DGH is proposing several related measures to improve the management of
Indonesia's highway authorities. These include:
I.   Some measures directed primarily to the needs of DGH itself by
provision of technical assistance for a total of 323 man-months
distributed as below and by overseas training courses:
(i)  two technical assistance advisors (24 man-months) to provide
DGH with an overview of technical assistance needs and activi-
ties and to support a DGH Steering Committee for review of DGH
management and administrative problems;
(ii)  technical assistance (24 man-months) to DGH Task Groups which
will recommend on standard operating procedures and on specific
constraints and deficiencies in DGH operations.  These Task
Groups will be closely coordinated with the work of another DGH
Task Group studying the administrative and other relationships
between DGH and highway agencies at lower levels of Government,
and with DGH work on manpower planning (which is benefitting
from expert assistance provided with finance under the Fourth
Highway Project);
(iii) technical assistance (42 man-months) to study selected highway
design and other technical problems, including short feasibility
studies of complex or high priority projects;
(iv) technical assistance (233 man-months) for DCH operations in



- 35 -
- planning (113 man-months, of which 77 froim UNDP) which
will cover assistance in refining highway planning procedures
and in urban transport planning;
- manpower development and training (54 man-months) which
will assist in establishing manpower planning procedures and
regional training colleges for public worlks officials;
- equipment and supply management (18 man-months) which will
primarily cover procurement of equipment and spares;
- monitoring and control (48 man-months) which cover monitor-
ing of activities under the proposed loan and of other DGH
projects and advice in improving the DGH reporting and
control procedures;
(v) overseas training for 45 DGH staff members who require
highly specialized courses not available in Indonesia, and
II.   Some measures directed primarily to the needs of the DPUPs by
provision of technical assistance (490 man-months) as follows:
(i) assistance (400 man-months) for implementation of DPUP
improvement programs in eight provinces which will cover
especially general highway engineering, highway maintenance
and training and will include program monitoring.
(ii)  studies of 18 DPUPs carried out jointly by DGH, the respective
DPUP and consultants (90 man-months);
No final decision has yet been made on the configuration of the various
consulting services into contracts. Some items will be arranged with individual
consultants. Other items, such as the study of DPUPs and the implementation
of DPUP programs, will probably be provided by firms; however, separate firms
will be asked to do the studies and implementation to ensure that the study
process is not influenced by the possibility of work under the implementation
process.
(g) Studies on Various Highway Matters
3.33      Studies have been completed under the Fourth Higlhway Project of
vehicle weights and dimensions, road user charges, and of highway legisla-
tion. These studies were conducted by DGH in close collaboration with MOC
and other interested government agencies and have resulted in:
- recommendations that maximum single axle loads on strategic
interurban roads (the most important trunk roads) be increased to
7 tons on an interim basis and 10 tons over the long term;
- recommendations that fuel prices should be ra-ised and that
taxes on commercial vehicles should be increased; and



- 36 -
- compilation of various highway legislation with recommendations
for codification, rationalization and amendment in certain
areas.
These studies, as well as screening-feasibility studies under the Fourth
Highway Project, have also disclosed uncertainty as to the appropriate
vehicle operating costs to be applied in economic analyses of highways, and
considerable variations in these costs between various studies. Variations
were also observed but not fully documented amongst the various regions
of Indonesia. Accordingly, the Government is proposing implementation
studies under MOC's direction to:
- identify the strategic interurban roads to be approved for
higher axle loads including the benefits and costs associated
with any required upgrading of roads and bridges;
- recommend on the most effective way of introducing larger vehicles
into Indonesia;
- recommend improved vehicle weight and enforcement procedures;
- recommend the best way for raising road user charges with
particular reference to the general need to raise revenues and to
distribute tax burdens equitably;
- examine the effect of all laws and regulations (including vehicle
weights and dimension rules and road user charges) on the level of
service and economics of the road transport industry, and recommend
a suitable package of policies for that industry in the light of
overall transport and economic policy;
- develop a vehicle operating cost model which is suited to various
types of vehicles used in Indonesia and to their pattern of use,
and to develop a procedure for specifying costs for use in this
model;
- prepare the basis for comprehensive and unified highway legislation
and design standards, including the administrative system for
enforcing legislation.
As the foregoing tasks are interrelated, they will be carried out by one firm
of consultants (120 man-months).
3.34      Analysis of betterment proposals has disclosed that further bene-
fits for nonmotorized traffic would be obtained when the Government develops
and implements a road safety program (para. 4.18(d)). Although it is
known that the rate of highway accidents is high in Indonesia and the costs
in lives and property are significant, the problem has not been clearly
defined nor have alternative solutions been scrutinized. The Government
therefore has agreed to develop a highway safety program which would be based
on a consultant's study. The study would be directed by MOC and financed
under the proposed loan and is estimated to require about 90 man-months of
work.



- 37 -
(h) Advisory Assistance to MOC, Cipta Karya, and DKI
3.35      DGH and MOC have initiated active collaboration on several aspects
of transport planning and policy. The Vehicle Weights and Dimensions Study
and the Road Jser Charges Study were both executed by DGH with the coopera-
tion of MOC. MOC has initiated a national origin-destination survey covering
all modes; DGH supported this work because intermodal considerations are
important components of DGH highway planning at all stages: long-range plan-
ning, the 5-year rolling plan, and individual screening and feasibility
studies. Accordingly, DGH not only undertook comprehensive origin-destination
surveys on the road system but also provided an expatriate statistician,
partly financed under the Fourth Highway Project, to give advice to both DGH
and MOC in sample design, in survey execution, and in data analysis. MOC has
now requested, and DGH has concurred, that further strengthening of col-
laborative planning is desirable through the provision of several advisers to
MOC in general transport planning, in transport data management, and in river
and ferry transport. About 140 man--months have been estimated for this
purpose.
3.36      Cipta Karya is charged with developing long-range regional plans
for Indonesia which will also serve as the long-range planning tool of DGH.
Cipta Karya has requested that it be provided with two experts (in transpor-
tation and regional economics) to assist with this work and the proposed loan
accordingly provides finance for 24 man-months of this activity which should
help measurably in promoting an integrated approach to transport planning.
Transport planning coordination also is an important problem for the Special
Provincial Government of Jakarta (DKI) which receives assistance for transport
improvements from several central agencies including DGH and MOC. As DKI is
in the best position to effect coordLination, the proposed loan provides
technical assistance (12 man-months) for DKI's transport planning work.
(i) Selected Measures to assist the Indonesian Consulting and
Construction Industry
3.37      Experience under the Fourth Highway Project suggests that the
single most immediate need of Indonesian highway consulting and construction
firms is qualified technical staff. DGH accordingly proposes to employ a
foreign consultant who will survey the personnel needs of highway consulting
and construction firms and recommend means of overcoming deficiencies. The
consultant's recommendations may cover one or several options including
recruitment by the Indonesian firms of qualified technical staff, in which
case the consultant is to act as recruiting agent. In order to facilitate
recruitment and encourage use of this facility by Indonesian firms, the
recruited staff will be maintained on the consultant's payroll for one year
and be seconded to the Indonesian firms; these firms will be expected to
cover only a part of the costs, with the remainder being provided as a grant
by DGH. The recruited staff and the Indonesian firms will be encouraged to
make their own employment contracts after the first year. In order to
ensure that this facility will be used only on a temporary basis, the scheme
will in due course be transferred to a trade organization or other private
body and will then be supported wholly by non-Government funds. About 120
man-months of consulting time, including staff seconded to Indonesian firms,
have been budgeted for this proposal.



- 38 -
3.38      MPW has also embarked on an ambitious multipronged campaign to
upgrade the Indonesian construction industry (for all types of construction,
not only highways). A team from UNIDO have prepared a comprehensive report
on various measures on behalf of the construction industry, which comprises
some 13,000 firms throughout Indonesia. The report recommends a planning
phase and an execution phase; while both phases require large inputs from
foreign advisors, the execution phase also includes trial projects employing
labor-intensive and intermediate technology. Particular areas of emphasis
during the execution phase would be equipment and manpower supply, provision
of credit and data systems. MPW has established a special unit to promote
the Indonesian construction industry, and the Secretary General of MPW has
requested Bank assistance for the work of this unit. As highway work is a
major factor in the construction industry, Bank assistance is appropriately
made a part of the proposed loan for highways. Assistance for the planning
phase which began in January 1979 is being provided partly from the Fourth
Highway Project and partly by the Danish International Development Authority
(DANIDA). Some further assistance for the planning phase (about 15 man-months)
might also be provided under the proposed loan. The execution phase has
been roughly estimated to cost between US$25 and US$50 million equivalent
over five years; the details of this phase will not be known until the
planning phase is completed. About US$1 million of the cost of the execution
phase, primarily for consultants, would be included under the project and the
Bank would finance the foreign costs. The Bank contribution would thus
finance about 120 man-months of work. Definitive plans for the scheme
and for the Bank's contribution to it under the proposed loan is scheduled to
be submitted for Bank approval by December 31, 1979.
C. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
3.39      The total cost of the project, including contingency allowances
and land cost, is estimated at about US$250 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$140 million, or 56%. The base for all project costs is
January 1979. Details are shown below, separated into those elements pro-
posed for Bank financing and those not proposed for Bank financing. All
costs were reviewed and confirmed during loan negotiations.
3.40      Cost estimates for construction and improvement of about 800 km
of roads were prepared by the consultants attached to the four existing
RBOs. The estimates are based partly on completed final engineering, using
quantities derived from this process, and unit rates established by detailed
price analyses in combination with a review of unit rates for similar work
obtained from international competitive bidding for about 2,000 km tendered
in the last two years, and partly on application of these unit rates to
quantities derived from preliminary engineering. Cost estimates for bridge
replacements were prepared by DGH and are based on an average cost per
linear meter of a one-lane bridge, as obtained in recent local competitive
bidding, and on cost data available in the Directorates of Planning and
Construction. As noted in para. 3.21, detailed engineering and final cost
estimates of bridge replacements are to be prepared under the proposed
project; the results of this work will be sent to the Bank before bids are
invited.



- 39 -
2 Foreign
Project element                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total   exchange
--- (Rp billion)/  ---        ---- (US$ million) ---   component
A. Conostruction and improvement of
national and provincial roada,
including bridgen; about 800 km
(Betterment Worke)                           12.0    28.0       40.0       19.2    44.8       64.0        70
B. Constr-ction of bridge replacemectn;
about 4,000 n
(Oridge Replacement Program)                  5.5      4.5      10.0        8.8      7.2      16.0        45
Subtotal A + B                          17.5    32.5       50.0       28.0    32.0      80.0         65
C.  Road meintanance equipment for
eight pro-incen (DPUP improvemeot
prograno)                                       -    13.8       13.8          -    22.0       22.0       100
D.  Major oupport works in eight
provinces (DPUP improvement
programo)                                     9.8      8.1      17.9       15.7    12.9       28.6        45
Subtotal C + D                           9.8    21.9       31.7       15.7    34.9      50.6         69
e.  Highway nafety equipment                         -      1.9       1.9          -      3.0       3.0       100
F.  Consultig Services
(i)  Sapervinion of A (8% of A)               1.6      1.6       3.2        2.6      2.6       5.2        50
(ii)  Detailed ongineeriog of about
4,000 m of bridge replacenentn           0.3      0.3       0.6        0.5      0.5       1.0        50
(iii)  Supervision of B (4% of B)               0.2      0.2       0.4        0.3      0.3       0.6        50
Subtotal (ii) + (iii)                    0.5      0.5      1.0          .8      0.8       1.6        50
(iv)  Screening - Feasibility studies
of about 1,500 kb of roads Eor
betterment and review of final
d.oigns in F (vi)                        0.3      0.1       0.4        0.4      0.2       0.6        30
(v)  Detailed engineering of about
1,000 km of roada selectod
froe P (v)                               0.9     0.4        1.3        1.4     0.6       2.0         30
Sobtotal (iv) + (v)                      1.2     0.5        1.7        1.8      0.98      2.6        30
(vi)  Studios and other meanoroe
directed to needs of 0Gh                 0.3      1.1       1.4        0.4      1.7       2.1        80
(vii)  Overnean training of 0Gh otaff             -      0.6       0.6           -    1.0        1.0       100
(viii)  Tebhni-al napport aervicoe  for
oelected DPUPs                           0.5      1.6       2.1        0.8      2.6       3.4        75
(in)  Preparation of improvement
programe  for eighteen provincen         0.1      0.4       0.5        0.2      0.6       0.8        80
(a)  Studies on highway eattern               0.3      0.9       1.2        0.4      1.4       1.8        75
(xi)  Advinory snr-icen for Minintry
of Co.nuolcatiooe, Cipta Cary.
and DSI                                  0.1      0.7       0.8        0.3      1.2       1.5        80
Subtotal (I) + (xi)                      0.4      1.6       2.0        0.7      2.6       3.3        80
(oii)  SOpport to domeatic coasolting
and co.ntroction industries
(a) To individual fimo in
highway nector                    0.1      0.5       0.6        0.2      0.8       1.0        80
(b)  To UNIDO acheme                   0.1      0.5       0.6        0.2      0.8       1.0        80
Subtotal (xii)                           0.2      1.0       1.2        0.4      1.6       2.0        80
Sobtotol F                               4.7      8.9      13.6        7.7    14.3      22.0         65
Total A - F                             32.1    65.1       97.2       51.4   104.2    155.6          67
0. ContinReeciea
Phyoical (10%) /b                           3.2      6.5       9.7        5.2    10.4       15.6        67
Price (43%) /c                             27.1    15.2       42.3       43.3    24.3       67.6        36
Subtotal G                              30.3    21.7      52.0        48.5    34.7      83.2         42
Total A - C                             62.4    86.8    149.2         99.9   138.9    238.8          58
h.  Elenenct  not Propoe.d fat Baok
Financing
(i)  Aaoistaoce of the UNDP for
urban highway planning /d                0.1      0.4       0.5        0.2      0.6       0.8        75
(ii)  Land acqaisition for A /e                6.2        -       6.2        9.9        -       9.9         0
Subtotal b                               6.3      0.4       6.7       10.1      0.6      10.7         6
Total Coat of Pro-ect (A- HI)           68.7    87.2    155.9        110.0   139.5    249.5          56
/R Rp contn which relate to s$ -1oata mey not correnpond exactly doe to rounding of nombers.
/b  10% on all ite.-.
t  Foe cor ntruction (A+B+D) (including phynical cootingeociea)   7% p.a. far foreign component and for
local co ponent, 1979: 30%: 1980: 20%; 1981: 15%; 1982: 15%; and 1983: 10%.  Fo- service   (F) end oqnip-nt (C+S),
(including physical contingencien): 7% p.e.
/d  Thin relates solely to UNDP advisory team and financing in being provided entirely by the UNDP
and the Government.
Le Financed entirely by the Goveroment.



- 40 -
3.41      The cost estimates for the DPUP development programs are based on
the detailed study carried out of the DPUP road organization and Dro!7rams
for West Sumatera. On the assumption that this province is representative ol
the eight provinces to be included for assistance under the project, a propor-
tionate amount has been estimated for each of the other provinces. The DPUP
programs include both procurement of highway maintenance equipment and
financial assistance for rehabilitation and support works planned and exe-
cuted by the DPUP. Costing of the equipment component for West Sumatera is
based on unit prices provided by manufacturers and on results of recent
equipment tenders, while the estimates for the road works are based on
average km rates established by detailed price analyses of force account work
operations.
3.42      The cost of construction supervision of road works is estimated at
8% of the total construction cost; this percentage is slightly lower than the
approximately 9% earmarked for the same type of work financed under the Fourth
Highway Project, mainly because the initial expenditures in establishing the
RBOs with consultants attached have already been incurred.  The supervision
cost for bridge replacement construction is estimated at 4% of the total cost
because most of the supervision will be carried out by DPUP or DGH engineers,
assisted by local consultants.  The consulting services for screening-
feasibility studies and detailed engineering of road works have been costed
using the cost data per km obtained under the Fourth Highway Project with a
certain reduction, again because this work is now a continuation of an
ongoing process and initial costs in developing methodologies and procedures
have already been incurred and because local consultants will carry out an
increasing share of the work. Cost estimates for the remainder of the consult-
ing services are based on estimates of the number of man-months required for
each task on previous contracts with foreign and local consultants for
similar work, taking into account the anticipated mix of foreign and local
staff, and with costs updated to cover increases up to January 1979. The
average man-month cost for a consultant expert, including the cost of related
equipment, materials, travel, and allowances (estimated at US$2,000 equiv-
alent per man-month for both Indonesian and expatriate professionals), is
about US$3,000 equivalent for an Indonesian and ranges between US$8,000 and
US$9,000 for an expatriate. Land acquisition costs were assessed by the RBOs
in connection with the preliminary and detailed engineering of the road
works. All these estimates are reasonable.
3.43      A contingency allowance of 10% has been added to cover quantity
increases on all items. The 33% rupiah devaluation in November 1978 resulted
in exceptionally low local base costs when expressed in US dollars. However,
domestic inflation, especially for civil works construction, is expected to be
substantial during the early part of the project, and thus higher than usual
price contingencies have been estimated. Total price contingencies over the
five-year implementation period would be 43% of the base costs, assuming the
following rates of price increases:
(a)  local component of civil works at 30% in 1979, 20% in 1980, 15% p.a.
in 1981 and 1982, and 10% p.a. thereafter; and



- 41 -
(b) foreign component of civil works, local and foreign consulting
services, and foreign equipmtent at 7% p.a. throughout.
These contingency allowances were reviewed and confirmed during loan nego-
tiations _ad are considered adequate.
3.44      The foreign exchange component of road construction (betterment
works) has been estimated by the design consultants at an average of about
70%. A much lower foreign exchange component of about 45% has been estimated
by DGH for bridge construction and support works because it is anticipated
that a much higher proportion of bridge work will be carried out by local
contractors, utilizing mainly local materials, and all support works will be
executed by force account units. The foreign exchange component of the
consultants' services has been calculated on the basis of the estimated
numbers of man-months of foreign and local consultants' staff to be employed.
It is estimated at 50% for construction supervision and detailed engineering
of bridges, at 30% for studies and detailed engineering of road works, and at
75-80% for services where expatriate consultants will work mainly as advisors
to government institutions. All these foreign exchange estimates are reasonable.
D. Financing
3.45      The total cost of the project elements proposed for Bank financing
(para. 3.39) is estimated at about US$239 million; the foreign exchange
component is estimated at about US$139 million of which US$130 million
will be financed by the loan. The Government will finance the remaining
total project costs of US$120 million (which includes US$600,000 of financing
expected from the UNDP, para. 3.32) as part of DGH's development budget. It
was confirmed during loan negotiations that the Government will provide
funds on an adequate and timely basis, and make prompt payments under the
project.
E. Implementation, Procurement and Environmental Aspects
3.46      The DGH will be responsible for carrying out the project, as in
the four previous highway projects, except for some consulting services as
follows: (a) studies on various highway matters (paras. 3.33 and 3.34) and
advisers on general transport planning, transport data management, river and
ferry transport planning (para. 3.35) for which MOC will be responsible;
(b) assistance in regional planning which will be under Cipta Karya; and
(c) assistance in urban planning for Jakarta under DKI. DGH will be sup-
ported by suitably qualified consultants for supervision of road and bridge
construction works. The technical administration of the supervision work
will be carried out through DGH's original four RBOs for work in their own
regions (see Chart WB-19497). Consulting services to the RBOs will be pro-
vided either by extending the existing contracts for the present design con-
sultants or by engaging new consultants for this work. Some road works for
which the design was arranged through the original four RBOs are located in
regions which in the future will be covered by other RBOs to be established
by DGH with the attached consultancies to be financed by ADB and CIDA (para.
2.12 and Chart WB-19496). DGH is currently considering whether to arrange



- 42 -
for construction supervision of Bank-financed projects in the regions of the
new RBOs either by the consultants to one of the original four RBOs or
consultants to be appointed for the new RBOs. In either event, agreements
will be entered into under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The nontechnical administration of the contracts for construction work will
be handled by the heads of the DPUPs where the road sections are located.
Formerly, betterment works assisted by foreign aid have been administered by
the Director of Construction (see Chart WB-19497) as so-called Betterment I
works, but with the increase in the scope of the betterment program and in
line with DGH's effort to extend the devolution of road activities to the
regional and provincial level, DGH has decided to involve the DPUPs directly
in contract administration also for this work. Eventually, the DPUPs will
take over fully the administration of all betterment and bridge replacement
contracts, but in the interim the RBOs will provide direct assistance in
technical and supervisory matters through the consultants attached to the
RBOs.
3.47      The field work for screening-feasibility studies and detailed
engineering will be carried out through the existing RBOs, either by the
presently attached consultants or by other consultants to be selected and
appointed in agreement with the Bank. While the consultants providing moni-
toring services under the Fourth Highway Project will continue to do so under
the proposed project by extending their contract, the Government intends to
invite proposals for most other consultancies to be financed under the
proposed loan. During negotiations, confirmation was obtained that the
Government will employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to
the Bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.48      Road improvement works and bridge replacements (if the contract is
for more than US$1 million equivalent) will be carried out under unit-price
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by
prequalified firms, in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for
Procurement." DGH advertised internationally in July 1978, inviting contrac-
tors, who had not yet submitted prequalification documents earlier in 1978
in connection with ADB and Japanese-financed road works, to prequalify for
about 500 km of roads which may be presented though not definitely committed
for financing under the proposed loan. However, since DGH plans to start
between 2,000 and 3,000 km of betterment per year in the next 2-3 years with
financial assistance from several international and bilateral lending agencies,
DGH is considering arranging prequalification of contractors for road and
bridge works on an annual basis, taking into account not only the financial
and technical competence of the contractors but also their eligibility for
being awarded contracts under the various assistance programs. Concurrently
with the prequalification advertisements, DGH invited bids for about 500 km of
roads which are to be submitted by the end of May 1979 and which are tentatively
intended, though not definitely committed, for financing under the proposed
loan. For bid evaluation, Indonesian firms and eligible joint ventures will
be given a 7-1/2% preference in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The
bidding documents used for the first group of roads have been agreed and



- 43 -
contain appropriate provision for price adjustment, performance guarantees,
etc. Tenders for the remaining road packages will be arranged during the
latter part of 1979 and selection of roads to be financed under the project
will be completed by the end of 1979. Allowing for six-month mobilization
periods and for up to 3-1/2 year construction periods, construction of better-
ment works should be completed by the end of 1983.  For bridge replacement
projects, tenders will be held during the period from mid--1979, wlhen the first
final engineering designs are expected to be ready, to micd-1980. Where
individual bridges are small, they will be included in packages aggregating at
least US$500,000 equivalent each, and contracts will be awarded according to
local tendering rules satisfactory to the Bank.  Contracts; valued at over US$1
million equivalent will be submitted to the Bank for its approval; for other
contracts the Government will only advise the Bank of the principal conditions
and will maintain executed copies of the contracts in Indconesia for the Bank's
inspection. Since the construction period for bridges generally are not more
than 2 to 2-1/2 years, bridge construction should be completed before the end
of 1983, as for betterment projects.
3.49       The implementation of the DPUP development programs wi-ll comprise
financial assistance for support works of a capital nature and for procurement
of equipment. The support works whiLch would be eligible for Bank financing
are:
(a) partial asphaltic overlays or resealing of existing asphalt roads;
(b) reshaping of parts of existing roads (low areas requiring the
raising of embankments with select material) and new gravel surfacing
as may be appropriate;
(c) regravelling; and
(d)  drainage works (new culverts, drains and paved ditches), including
larger new structures up to 6 meters in length.
The amount included in the cost estimates under this category of work would
cover an estimated three-year program in the eight project provinces. Road
maintenance equipment to be supplied to the DPUPs will be procured through
contracts awarded after international comnpetiitve bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines; foreign bids will be evaluated on the c.i.f. (port of
entry) cost, and local bids on the ex-Factory c .i-   Tie istal aAr-in of
preference will be allowed to domestic manufacturers. These procedures were
confirmed by the Government during loan negotiations. It is anticipated
that contracts for equipment procurement would be awarded and included for
financing under the project before the end of 1980.  During loan negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government on a Project Imp:Lementation Schedule
(Table 15) and on arrangements for reporting progress including preparation
of a completion report within six months of the Closing Date.
3.50       The maintenance of the roads, which have been upglraded under the
proposed project, will require new and better maintenance operations to
protect the investments. Under the agreed bidding documents, the contractor



- 44 -
on each road, who will become thoroughly familiar with local conditions,
will be required to prepare an initial maintenance program for the road for
review and approval by the appropriate RBO and maintenance subdirectorate.
Assurances were obtained from the Government during loan negotiations
that it will cause the roads to be maintained in accordance with the approved
maintenance programs.
3.51      Major road works are carried out with a blend of labor and capital
intensive methods which give full recognition to the availability of low
cost semiskilled labor in Indonesia, without undue sacrifice in the quality
and cost of the works. The same methods will apply to the works to be
financed under the project. Many construction operations are labor-oriented,
such as ditch and shoulder excavation, minor to medium shoulder strengthening
(crushing and placement of stone), minor earth cuts, and bridge and culvert
construction. The scale of the project will make a significant contribution
to employment creation; US$1 million of construction work is estimated to
provide about 60-100 man-years of skilled jobs and about 250-450 man-years of
semiskilled jobs, depending on the nature and location of the work, or a
total number of man-years under the project of about 8,000 for skilled and
40,000 for semiskilled workers.
3.52      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
ecological effects. The works are being designed to provide for adequate
drainage and for paving of shoulders when appropriate, to avoid flooding and
erosion. Location of the improvements is largely on existing alignments,
thus minimizing the requirements for additional land and disturbance to
property. Land acquisition will be sufficiently completed for each road
section in the project before a contract for construction is awarded to
permit timely commencement of construction. This was confirmed during loan
negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.53      Disbursements from the loan will be made on the basis of:
(a) 50% of the total cost of construction of betterment works;
(b) 45% of the total cost of construction of bridge replacements;
(c) 35% of the costs of support works;
(d) equipment other than vehicles: 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
road maintenance equipment; or the ex-factory price, excluding
identifiable taxes and duties, of locally manufactured equipment;
or 65% of the total cost of imported and locally purchased equip-
ment; vehicles: 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported vehicles or
40% of the delivered price of locally procured vehicles;
(e) 100% of the foreign exchange costs or 60% of the total costs of
consultants' services, at the Government's option; and



- 45 -
(f) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of overseas training of staff
(through fellowships).
A Schedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 16) has been prepared and
was reviewed and agreed with the Government during negotiations. It is
expected that the costs of completing the project will be well established by
the end of 1981. Should the Bank's share of the project costs be less than
the amount in the loan account, this surplus would be used to help finance
additional high priority roads, bridge replacements or support works selected
and approved at that time under similar arrangements as for the items already
included in the project.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The project impinges on many of the important highway activities
in Indonesia. It has been designed to integrate its various elements so that
they are mutually reinforcing and will make most effective use of the Bank's
contribution. Even though the project does not constitute sector lending,
which must await fuller knowledge of Indonesia's highway systems and organiza-
tions (para. 2.42), it does apply techniques of sector lending and thereby
facilitate the transition to full sector lending. It focuses on the thrust
and structure of the overall highway program, the policies applied to design-
ing, maintaining and making efficient use of Indonesia's highways, the public
and private institutions which are responsible for these highways, and the
procedures in selecting investments, rather than on the merits of individual
roads and bridges to be financed under the proposed loan.
4.02      The basic objectives of the DGH program and the procedures and
policies applied in its design are sound. These objectives are to maintain
and improve land communications to the particular requirements of Indonesia's
disparate regions and to the expanding and changing needs of Indonesia's
economy. The program encompasses both the elimination of crippling congestion
on main highways in Java as well as the restoration of roads in remote areas
to passable condition, thereby assisting industrialization and urbanization
as well as drawing disadvantaged groups from remote areas into the economic
mainstream. The program thus provides a flexible instrument in support of
the Government's regional development strategy and its drive to help the
poor.
4.03      The DGH program results from a logical planning process:  assess-
ment of transport needs throughout Indonesia, allocation of an appropriate
traffic share to highways on each transport link, evaluation of existing
roads in relation to the traffic which they are assigned to carry, consider-
ation of alternative treatments available for each link, and selection of the
preferred alternative. The process incorporates the basic objectives of the
program and DGH policy emphasis on better road maintenance, on economy in
road design and on strengthening weak pavement structures and bridges which
remain from the early days of motorization and which now, with the rapid rise



- 46 -
in the number and size of vehicles, require frequent and costly maintenance.
The program thus also reflects the need to economize on Government expendi-
tures and responds to the urgent call to mobilize resources for development.
4.04      The project addresses two very important issues in the transport
sector: resource allocation and resource mobilization. The Government and the
Bank have discussed the implications for Indonesia's economy of the continued
pricing of petroleum in Indonesia below world market levels. This not only
results in a large cash subsidy (over US$250 million in 1978/79) to the
state-owned oil company but promotes wasteful use of fuel, the selection
of fuel-intensive technologies, and also diverts petroleum which would
otherwise be available for export and thus damages the balance of payments.
The Government is aware of these distortions. While it is proceeding cau-
tiously in raising petroleum prices due to the inflationary effect of the
recent devaluation, it retains upward adjustment of petroleum prices as its
long-range objective.
4.05      The Bank and the Government have also explored the scope for
increasing Government resources through reductions in subsidies for transport
enterprises such as railways and shipping, and through higher taxes on road
transport. The Fourth Highway Project included a study of road user charges
which established the potential for increased taxation on road transport; a
further study will be assisted under the proposed loan (para. 3.32) to
identify potential taxes on road transport, assess their revenue potential
and evaluate their economic efficiency. This study also needs to consider
the relationship of these potential taxes to taxes and subsidies on other
modes of transport and to the pricing of fuel throughout the transport
sector. The Government indicated during negotiations that the transport
system should ideally become financially self-supporting and that the Govern-
ment would seek to move toward a cost-based system of pricing and reduction
of subsidies (paras. 1.21 and 1.22). The Government has also agreed to take
appropriate actions toward putting the results of the implementation study
into effect.
4.06      The use of small commercial vehicles is mainly due to severe
Government restrictions on the importation and use of larger vehicles. The
Fourth Highway Project included a study of vehicle weights and dimensions
(para. 2.03). This study considered the effects of an increase in the axle
load limit from 5 tons (the highest limit - with rare exceptions - over the
present range of permitted axle loads) to up to 12 tons. The study concluded
that over the range considered, the incremental pavement construction costs
associated with the use of larger axle loads are quite small by comparison
with vehicle operating cost savings and can effectively be ignored. Thus for
a truck with three axles, the saving which accrues from raising the legal
limit from five to seven tons per axle is 5 Rps per ton-km based on a hypo-
thetical movement of 400,000 tons per year over 1 km of highway; this is
equivalent to Rps 100 million over a 10 year period using a 15% discount
factor. DGH wishes to follow up on this study to explore the best way of
introducing higher axle load vehicles. The proposed loan accordingly provides
assistance for such a study. The Government has indicated its intention to
implement the results of the study.



- 47 -
4.07      Indonesia's expanding highway program is transforming the role
played by various highway agencies. Maintenance, which is primarily executed
by lower levels of Government (DPUPs, DPUKs and below), is becoming more
important as traffic increases, and more worthwhile aF roads are designed and
built for long term use; the maintenance functions of lower level highway
authorities must thus be expanded and made more effective. Also, increasing
responsibility for design and construction is devolving to lower level road
authorities which must be restructured accordingly. These authorities must,
in addition, acquire capabilities for technical assistance for expanding
rural and urban roads programs. On the other hand, DGH will increasingly
become an apex organization with planning, policy and financing functions and
is restructuring itself to this end. Finally, the volume of works requires
expansion of private sector facilities (consulting and construction firms) to
supplement the limited number of t:rained personnel available in public
highway authorities.
4.08      The project provides funds for improvement schemes for each of
these institutions: the lower level road authorities, by improvement pro-
grams for 8 DPUPs and by studies of 18 others; DGH, by studies of organiza-
tional matters, by manpower planning and training schemes, by finance for
additional screening-feasibility studies and design, and by advisors in
highway planning, equipment procurement, and management and project monitor-
ing and control; the consulting and construction industries, by a scheme to
provide technical personnel and by a contribution to a comprehensive develop-
ment program. The value of these schemes is substantial (US$25 million
equivalent, excluding DPUP equipment and works) but not disproportionate to
the size of the total roads program which is growing rapidly and projected to
aggregate US$3.6 billion equivalent over the next five years.
4.09      No quantification has been attempted of the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) attributable to the DGH program as a whole or to the project components
which support improvements in sectoral policy or in sectoral institutions.
Large savings could be realized, however, through better policies (para.
4.06) which would accrue with relatively modest costs. This would substan-
tially increase the contribution of transport to economic development by
reducing unit transport costs and by spreading the transport budget more
widely.
B. Individual Investments
Road Improvements
4.10      The proposed loan includles finance for about 800 km of road
betterment projects. Procedures have been formulated for preparation of road
betterment and would be applied to any road which is to be proposed for Bank
financing. A road would thus be subject to the following process: After a
link had been recommended for betterment for the rolling five-year plan,
engineering teams (from RBOs in Sumatera, Java and Bali and from DGH's design
office elsewhere) prepared sufficiency engineering proposals for rectification
of the road (including bridges) to carry projected traffic for the next ten
years without further major outlays for reconstruction or rehabilitation.



- 48 -
The proposals were based on detailed scrutiny of the pavement structures and
subsoils and of the condition of bridges. The proposals included, in addition.
separate items to widen roads, improve shoulders and otherwise adjust thie
geometric design where the engineering teams judged them to be warranted.
The proposals were prepared in accordance with detailed instructions issued
by SFP to ensure uniformity of approach and economy in design and which
included traffic projections to be applied for each link. The instructions
indicated that for purposes of analysis, links were to be divided into
homogeneous sections with uniform patterns of traffic, terrain, land use and
road condition. The sections averaged 10 to 20 km in length.
4.11      The proposals were then evaluated by teams of engineers and economists
from SFP who visited the sites and made a separate calculation of the ERR for
the basic proposal and for each of the marginal adjustments which were put
forward. SFP then prepared specifications for final design which was executed
by the engineering teams. During final design, sections and links were
recombined into packages suitable for tender. SFP made a further review of
the engineering documents and calculated the ERR for each package. Detailed
design was also covered by detailed instructions issued by SFP.
4.12      The foregoing procedures applied to the typical cases where traffic
on the link could be accommodated over the next ten years without major changes
in design of the road. If the engineering teams considered that a section
of road could best be treated by expanding it to four lanes or relocating it
to a new alignment or bypassing a town, or that a road could best be carried
over a river by rebuilding a bridge on a new location, or if a road had fallen
into disuse and carried little or no motorized traffic, SFP commissioned more
intensive studies which would require alternative preliminary engineering
proposals from the field teams and more detailed longer-range traffic pro-
jections and calculation of development benefits from SFP's economists. SFP
then combined these elements into feasibility studies. The road betterment
proposals might thus include some incidental new construction.
4.13      The ERR was based on economic costs of construction and three
main types of economic benefits: vehicle operating cost savings (including
passenger time savings), road maintenance cost savings, and development
benefits. Vehicle operating cost savings were the predominant benefits for
improving roads with substantial traffic, while maintenance cost savings
assumed more importance on low traffic roads and development benefits on
roads with little or no traffic.
4.14      Vehicle operating costs were based on market prices adjusted to
exclude indirect taxes and transfer payments, and fuel costs were revised
upward to reflect more closely the world price of petroleum. Vehicle operating
costs were also adjusted to reflect regional variations in vehicle use. Labor
costs have been taken at market prices because the labor component represents
primarily skilled or semiskilled workers who are in short supply in Indonesia.
Despite extensive work by SFP to refine vehicle operating cost information,
DGH has concluded that further research is required in this area not only to
explore uncertainties regarding the useful life and extent of utilization of
vehicles and the capital, insurance and managerial costs which are incurred by
operators, but also to set standards for road feasibility studies which would



-- 49 -
ensure that all analyses for these studies are made on a comparable basis.
The proposed loan therefore provides finance to assist in the compilation and
calibration of a vehicle operating cost model (para. 3.33).
4.15      SFP employs a computer program for calculation oE the ERR which
has been adopted from a road maintenance and improvement model developed in
Australia. Refinements have been and continue to be made to reflect the
special conditions of Indonesian traffic such as the frequent occurrence of
slow and non-motorized traffic. The program includes the usual features for
calculating net present value and testing sensitivity to cost variations.
Experience has shown that the routine is best adapted for analysis of works
on roads with medium traffic levels (roughly 500-15,000 ADT), and that
additional analyses may be needed in other cases. Moreover, the program
requires considerable data collection and SFP is developing simplified
procedures, such as graphs, to guide the engineering teams in making design
proposals.
4.16      In addition to a review of the SFP procedures, an evaluation was
also made of the betterment program by analysis of six sample projects (see
Maps):
Name                      Province    Length    Cost  Cost/km    ERR
US$ 000         %
a. Medan - Tebingtinggi          N. Sumatra      61       7,970    131       43
b. Palembang - Prabumulih        S. Sumatra      82       5,025      61      16
c. Bengkulu - Lais               Bengkulu        46       1,810      39      16
d. Bandung - Palimanan           W. Java        114      11,525    101       90
e. Waru - Kertosono              E. Java         77      11,950    155       78
f. Mamuju - Majene               S. Sulawesi   143       12,095      85      21
The samples were selected to cover the whole spectrum of cases: from all four
original RBOs as well as from an area not covered by these RBOs (item (f)),
roads with high traffic (item (e)), medium traffic (items (a) and (d)), low
traffic (items (b) and (c)), and little or no traffic (item (f), and better-
ments with high unit costs and low unit costs. Some presentations were based
wholly on the standard SFP routines, some also included feasibility studies
of selected improvements such as realignments and one (item (f)) was wholly
based on a feasibility study. Item (f) uses development benefits in the ERR,
and items (c) and (f) are located near proposed transmigration areas.
4.17      While the foregoing items have been tentatively identified by DGH
for financing under the proposed loan, the evaluation was made for illustra-
tive purposes only and DGH may decide to withdraw any of these items for
Bank financing. DGH will present proposals formally for financing only
after it has decided on a contractor to execute the works.



- 50 -
4.18      The analysis of samples has yielded several conclusions:
(a) while projects on low traffic roads have low unit costs, they
also have low ERRs. On the other hand, a much larger proportion
of the benefits on these roads compared to high traffic roads is
represented by maintenance cost savings, that is, by direct benefits
to the public treasury. Moreover, the beneficiaries of road
improvements would typically be poorer in the case of low traffic
than high traffic roads. Finally, the SFP methodology does not
measure benefits to non-motorized traffic. Such benefits would be
significantly larger in the total benefit stream in low traffic
than high traffic roads, and if included would raise ERRs signifi-
cantly for low traffic roads but only marginally for high traffic
roads. For these reasons, DGH favors a higher ERR threshold for
high traffic as opposed to low traffic roads.
(b) The costs of improving low traffic roads are primarily for pavement
rectifications while high traffic road improvements usually
include substantial expenditures to raise capacity (mostly widening
of carriageways and improving shoulders). The SFP procedure for
measuring the marginal return on incremental improvements
demonstrates that these improvements have very high ERRs (frequently
over 100%), much higher than pavement rectification. This is
another explanation for the wide variation in ERRs among sample
roads and for the observed wide variation in ERRs on sections
within sample roads with high ERRs.
(c) The high ERRs in some sample projects might indicate that further
investments with good returns could be made on those links. Some
parts of item (e), for instance, will soon need construction of a
road on a new alignment. Nevertheless, DGH policy favors betterment
on existing alignments in order to:
- realize quick near-term returns and avoid long gestation
periods,
- spread expenditures under the DGH program as widely as possible,
- provide benefits to non-motorized traffic, and low income
groups generally, who would be more likely to use roads on
existing alignments,
- minimize environmental impacts from construction on new
alignments and the loss of agricultural land in land-short
areas, such as Java.
Despite its tilt toward low cost betterments, DGH has directed that
feasibility studies be scheduled on the roads with the highest ERRs
in view of the long lead time in designing and building new roads.



- 51 -
(d) While the benefits to non-motorized traffic are not measured,
they are substantial under the designs which have been adopted.
The item (e) road provides wider shoulders whiclh will benefit up
to 3,000 bicycles per day. Further benefits wiLl be obtained,
particularly for non-motorized traffic, when the Government has
developed and implemented a road safety program. The Government
has agreed during negotiations to develop and implement such a
program.
Bridge Replacements
4.19       The bridge replacement program has been designed to overcome
a backlog in bridge works. This backlog presents greater problems than in
the case of roads because the sudden failure of a bridge creates more severe
economic and social disruptions than the more gradual deterioration of a
road. Special benefits are also associated with bridge replacements: they
are particularly suited for design and execution by DPUPs with Indonesian
contractors and have a shorter gestation period; they can, therefore, be more
easily executed in large volumes; in addition, the increased load carrying
capacity of a replacement bridge frequently could open long stretches of
roads to more efficient larger trucks. For these reasons, DGH has formulated
a separate bridge replacement program.
4.20       The bridge replacement program has been designed on the pattern
of the betterment program. Bridge inventories have been c ompiled to identify
bridges which have collapsed or are in dangerous condition. The identified
bridges will then be screened by engineering field teams working in collabor-
ation with SFP. After approval by SFP of the field team proposal, final
designs are prepared and subject to a final evaluation by SFP.
4.21       The evaluation procedures applied in this process are based on
those which were developed by SFP for the bridge components of road better-
ments. Bridge replacement benefits will include the avoidance of increased
vehicle operating or standing costs associated with detours or ferries, of
production losses from interruption in the supply of inputs and the marketing
of outputs, of time losses by users of the bridge, and of social costs
associated with the failure of bridges, particularly in urban or other
settled communities. A new bridge may also be wider and less congested than
the dangerous structure which it is replacing and may allow the passage of
heavier vehicles.
4.22       DGH submitted designs and sample contract documents for a bridge
replacement and an economic analysis for replacement of a collapsed bridge on
the road between Manna and Bengkulu in Bengkulu Province. The bridge was
replaced by a primitive ferry which served the 1977 traffic of about 50
4-wheel vehicles, 100 motorcycles and 150 nonpowered vehicles. The new
bridge of about 28 m length is estimated to cost US$88,000 equivalent and to
yield benefits in eliminating ferry costs and reducing vellicle operating and
time costs. The ERR is 30%.



- 52 -
DPUP Improvement Programs
4.23      The DPUP improvement programs will be based on road condition
inventories and will specify program targets to be achieved for improved road
conditions. Although improvements in road conditions would be attributable
to the program as a whole, improvements would primarily reflect investments
in maintenance equipment, and improved funding and procedures applied to
maintenance. DPUP programs will be based on studies of individual DPUPs.
An initial study for West Sumatera was completed in December 1978 although
some aspects of this study are currently being revised and expanded. This
study will provide a framework for subsequent studies in other DPUPs. The
main features of the West Sumatera program and the study from which it grew
are summarized below.
4.24      The DPUP improvement program contemplates a series of actions to
upgrade DPUP operations in West Sumatera including:
- better vegetation control and drainage maintenance;
- better patching of potholes;
- periodic grading of shoulders and of carriageways on unsealed
roads;
- introduction of systematic regravelling on gravel roads;
- introduction of resealing on sealed roads;
- introduction of surface treatments for sealed and selected
unsealed roads;
- improved placement of penetration macadam overlays;
- improved bridge maintenance; and
- improved design and management of construction, particularly
betterments and bridge replacements.
These objectives would be achieved through purchases of equipment and improved
maintenance of equipment, through reorganization and training of staff,
through increased application of funds, and generally through improvement of
work methods. The benefits would consist of more effective highway planning
and management, of more efficient use and greater returns on road and bridge
investment expenditures, of reduced vehicle operating costs on West Sumatera
roads and of economies in Government expenditures. The study has not attempted
to evaluate the returns on individual improvement actions but has formulated
decision rules to guide the allocation of funds among activities. Briefly,
the rules are that conservation works should have priority over improvements
and that within each category the following order of precedence would apply:



- 53 -
(a) Conservation works:
-  Priority 1:  ensure all roads passable in dry weather;
-  Priority 2:  Pothole patching and resealing of sealed roads,
and surface repair and regrading of unsealed
roads; and
-  Priority 3:  Routine off-pavement works (eg. cleaning drains).
(b) Improvement works:
-  Priority 1:  work to eliminate flooding;
- Priority 2: reconstruction, overlaying and regravelling;
and
- Priority 3: initial sealing of gravel roads and shoulder
gravelling.
These priorities conform to the experience of the SFP analyses and are
reasonable.
4.25      The improvement program will give primary emphasis to better
maintenance. It proposes to use periodic road condition inventories to
specify targets and to check results. These inventories can also serve as a
basis for a rough ERR calculation.
4.26      The road condition inventory was compiled on the basis of available
records and inspections by teams who passed over all roads and rated them on
several measures, such as condition of side drains, width and condition (high
or low) of shoulders, and pavement condition (structure and surface). The
West Sumatera national and provincial network covers about 1,700 km of which
1,100 km are presently sealed and 600 km unsealed. Sealed roads are estimated
to increase by about 150 km by 1983/84.
4.27      Over the next five years, various improvements will be made on West
Sumatera sealed roads. While the details as to the timing and location of
these improvements are still being worked out, a rough assumption is that
about 500 km of roads would be improved over the period. If this assumption
is combined with data from the road condition inventory, the average surface
conditions (the primary variable affecting vehicle operating costs) on these
roads would be in each year as follows, with and without a more effective
maintenance program (in round figures and condition 0 being the best):



- 54 -
1979             1980             1981            1982             1983
with   without   with  without  with  without  with  without  with  without
Condition 0   440        440      600      500    660      540    740      590    820       650
Condition 1   400        400      340     410    320       420    300      420    280       430
Condition 2   150        150      120      140    110      120      90     110      80       90
Condition 3    80         80       60       70     50       60      40       50     30       40
Total      1,070    1,070   1,120   1,120  1,140   1,140  1,170   1,170  1,210   1,210
Similarly, the 940 km of unsealed roads would be subject to various existing
maintenance routines which would be made more effective with the DPUP improve-
ment program. The condition of these roads would be as indicated below in
each year, with and without the more effective maintenance program (in round
figures and condition 0 being the best):
1979             1980             1981            1982            1983
with   without   with  without  with  without  with  without  with  without
Condition 0   160        160      200      170    240      180    250      180    290       190
Condition 1   130        130      130      140    140      150    140      160    140       170
Condition 2   120        120      100      110     90      100      80      90      30       80
Condition 3   210        210      140      150     80      120      50      90      20       40
Total        620       620      570     570    550       550    520      520    480       480
4.28      Traffic data are not available for all roads in West Sumatera.  A
reasonable representation of traffic on the sealed roads would be an ADT of
500 (200 cars, 100 buses and 200 trucks), and on the unsealed roads an ADT of
100 (40 cars, 20 buses and 40 trucks). The vehicle operating costs on sealed
and unsealed roads of average alignment in West Sumatera for conditions 0 to 3
are approximately as indicated (in Rps/km):
Sealed                    Unsealed
0     1      2     3        0      1     2      3
Car       25    35    45    55        40    47    54    60
Bus      80   105   130   150        120   135   150   165
Truck    50    75    95   115         75    95   110   125



- 55 -
The annual vehicle operating costs per km of sealed and unsealed road thus
are as follows, for the two assumed levels of traffic (in Rps million):
Sealed                       Unsealed
0      1       2      3        0      1     2      3
8.4   11.9   15.0   17.9       2.6   3.1   3.5   3.9
The difference in vehicle operating costs, with and without more effective
maintenance, covering a period equal to the life of the new maintenance
equipment, together with the additional investment and current costs required
to achieve more effective maintenance (in Rps million) are shown below:
1979    1980    1981   1982    1983   1984 to 1989
Benefits                                     499      629    747      772       @  772
Cost:
Equipment purchases              1400      100
Training costs                             100      100    100
Incremental support works                  100      100    100      100      @  100
Incremental maintenance costs              100      100    100      100      @  100
Total costs                    1400      400      300    300      200      @  200
The ERR of this combination of benefits and costs is 25%.  This ERR only
measures how the program improves vehicle operating costs through better
maintenance, and does not take into account the fact that better maintenance
also reduces future rehabilitation costs, or how the program improves other
aspects of highway work in the DPUP of West Sumatera.
4.29      As the project is based for the most part on elements which remain
to be presented to the Bank for approval, it is not possible to compute an
overall ERR. However, DGH has agreed not to include any projects with ERRs
of less than 15% and, as many high cost elements are likely to have very high
ERRs (para. 4.18), the overall ERR will undoubtedly be well in excess of 20%.
Project Beneficiaries
4.30      The project will benefit both the public and private sectors, the
former through significant economies in government expenditures resulting from
reduced road maintenance costs and improved operations of highway authorities,



- 56 -
and the latter through road user and development benefits. It would not be
possible to characterize in detail the socio-economic profiles of private
sector beneficiaries. It is clear, however, that competition among road
transport operators, especially truckers and commercial operators of small
passenger vehicles, will ensure that most road user savings will be passed on
to shippers and passengers. It is also clear that a broad spectrum of the
population makes use of roads in Indonesia, and that people who are well enough
off to operate their own motor vehicles represent a small part of the total
traffic flow. In many areas highways serve large numbers of non-motorized
vehicles and pedestrians, which represent the disadvantaged strata of society.
C. Project Risks
4.31      DGH policies in the design of the project tend to reduce risks.
DGH design criteria stress economy and the exclusion of design factors with
speculative benefits. DGH has minimized the risks of cost overruns by requir-
ing detailed engineering of all major works and by procuring the works by
effective contract arrangements. DGH has also reduced the risks from inaccurate
traffic projections and overdesign by emphasizing quick return projects. DGH
has assessed possible weaknesses in its own organization, which might impede
the proper execution of the project, and has taken concrete measures to
overcome them.
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, the Government indicated its policy,
inter alia:
(a) to move toward cost-based pricing in the transport sector
(para. 1.21);
(b) ideally to make the transport sector financially self-supporting
(para. 1.21);
(c) over the long term to raise petroleum prices in Indonesia
(para. 1.22);and
(d) to introduce larger commercial vehicles and raise load limits
(para. 2.03).
5.02      During loan negotiations the Government agreed through covenants in
the Loan Agreement that it will, inter alia:
(a) cause any agreed DPUP improvement program to be carried out
in accordance with its terms (para. 3.23);
(b) cause DGH to make a semiannual review with the Bank on DGH's
Third Plan Development Program (para. 3.14);



- 57 -
(c) take appropriate action towards putting into effect the results of
the implementation study on road user charges (paras. 2.26 and
4.05);
(d) cause road improvement works financed under the loan to be main-
tained in accordance with maintenance programs designed for such
works (paras. 2.33 and 3.50); and
(e) formulate and implement a highway safety program (para. 3.34).
5.03      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on:
(a) the cost estimates for the project (para. 3.39), contingency
allowances (para. 3.43) and the Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(para. 3.53);
(b) timely provision by the Government of funds and payment to
contractors to carry out the project (para. 3.45); and
(c) a Project Implementation Schedule and arrangements for reporting
progress (para. 3.49).
The project is\suitable for a Bank loan of US$130 million equivalent (repre-
senting about 52% of the total cost) for a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of five years.



ANNEX 1
-58-                                  Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1   Transportation Division, East Asia and Pacific Region, Transportation
Sector Review, September 30, 1975
A-2   W,D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart
Bina Marga staff, A National Study of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions
in Indonesia, June 1978, eight volumes (Technical Reports Nos. 1-7
and Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations)
A-3   W.D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart
Bina Marga Staff, A Study of Road User Charges in Indonesia, Draft
Final Report, Main Report, June 1978
A-4   W.D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart
Bina Marga Staff, A Study of Highway Ordinances and Enforcement in
Indonesia, Draft Final Report, Main Report, June 1978
A-5   Indonesian State Railways, A Five and Ten Year Development Plan
1979-1989, 15 August 1978 (draft)
A-6   Maritime Research Institute, Economic Study, Regular Line Services
in Indonesia, ca. August 1978 (draft)
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
I. Items Related to the Evaluation Procedure
B-1   Directorate General of Highways, Directorate of Planning, Screening-
Feasibility Project Office in Consultation with Enex Consortium
346, Initial Guidelines for Regional Betterment Offices, 25 November
1976, including Amendment No. 1, 15 December 1976 and Amendment No. 2,
June 1977
B-2   Same author, Preliminary Report on Guidelines and Economic Analysis
Procedures, 15 December 1976
B-3   Same author, Pavement Design Methods, April 1977



- 59                                      ANNEX 1
Page 2
B-4   Same author, Expanded Guidelines for Regional Betterment Offices,
Including Mainly Guidelines for Sufficiency Engineering, 15 February
1977, including Amendment No. 1, July 1977
B-5   Same author, Description and Example of SEP Analysis Procedure,
Main Report, August 1977, Appendix A, August 1977, and
Appendix C, August 1977
B-6   Same author, Economic and Social Analyses, Methodology Statement,
October 1977
B-7   Same author, Guidelines for Regional Betterment Offices, Final
Engineering and Documentation, November 1977
B-8   Same author, Vehicle Operating Cost, Physical Parameters, ca.
November 1977
B-9   Same author, Working Paper, Simplification of the Evaluation
Procedures, ca. November 1977
B-10  Same author, Computer Model Coding Instructions, 2 November 1977
B-11  Same author, Special Report, Economic Criteria, Block Data and
Sundry Explanatory Papers, 15 April 1978
B-12  Same author, Manuals for Evaluation and Reporting, 15 April 1978
B-13  Same author, Sundry Draft Documents on Pavement and Widening,
15 April 1978
B-14  Same author, Economic Vehicle Operating Costs, Review and Summary
Documentation, Including Comparisons with Other Studies (Draft),
May 1978
B-15  Same author, Simplified Evaluation, August 1978
B-16  Sample data formats (undated)
II. Items Related to Sample Road Sections
B-17  For (i) Tanjung Morawa - Tebingtinggi, (ii) Bengkulu-Lais,
(iii) Palembang-Prabumulih., (iv) Bandung-Palimanan, (v) Waru-
Kertosono:
- Regional Betterment Office, sufficiency engineering proposals
(except (iii))
- computer print-outs analyzing sufficiency engineering proposals
(except (iii))
- instructions to Regional Betterment Offices on Review of
Sufficiency Engineering Proposals



ANNEX 1
- 60 -                                  Page 3
-  report on draft documents for final enginee.g-6
- addendum on report on draft documents for final engineering
In addition:
For (i) - contract documents, including construction plans (in
eight volumes)
- design report
(ii) - report on present condition
- supplementary report on effect of flooding
- design report (in two volumes)
- computer print-outs for addendum
- special specifications
(iii) - special specifications
(iv) - Report on Feasibility Study, Long Climb East of
Cileunyi, 1.6 km Realignment
- Feasibility Study, Sumedang Bypass
- Feasibility Study, Realignment at Km 34.3-36.3
-special specifications
- construction plans
(v) - details on redesign of shoulders
- report by Directorate General of Highways, on
Mojokerto Bypass, May 1978
- Review report on Mojokerto Bypass, 3 August 1978
- special specifications
B-18 For Mamuju-Majene:
- Feasibility Appraisal Study, January 1978
- Report on Review of Draft Documents for Final Engineering,
ca. July 1978
III.  Items Related to Sample Bridge Sections
B-19  Directorate General of Highways, Preliminary Design Criteria for
Bridge Replacement Program, ca. August 1978
B-20  Directorate General of Highways, Directorate of Planning, Screening-
Feasibility Project Office in Consultation with ENEX Consortium 346,
Appraisal Methodologies for Bridge Betterment, December 21, 1978.
B-21  Same author, An Outline of the Procedure That Could Be Used to
Evaluate the Replacement of a Collapsed Bridge or the Replacement
of a Bridge in Imminent Danger of Collapse, ca. March 1979.
B-22  Designs and contract documents for replacement of a sample bridge.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
- 61 -
IV.  Items Related to Provincial Public Works Department Improvement Program
B-23  Provincial Public Works Department West Sumatra, Directorate General of
Highways, Department of Public Works and W.D. Scott and Co., A Study
of the Road Works Activities of the Provincial Department of Public
Works West Sumatra
Volume I    Main Report, November 1978
Volume II   Works Programme and Supporting Information, November 1978
Volume III  Supplementary Notes on the Implementation of Proposals,
December 1978



- 62 -
Table 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network
Area          % of                                National  Provincial  District
Region           by region    national    Province                    highways   highways       roads        Total
sq. km         area                                ----------------- km ------------------
Java               132,000          7        Jakarta                      369       1,224        1,784
West Java                    669       1,881       6,338
Central Java                 416       1,806       8,936
Yogyakarta                    32         309       1,472
East Java                    521       2,705       6,878
Total          2,007       7,925      25,408       35,340
Sumatera          474,000          25        Aceh                         490       1,290       3,892
North Sumatera               793       2,428       4,111
West Sumatera                691       1,080       3,679
Riau                         100       1,005       1,140
Jambi                        433         914          165
South Sumatera               662       2,635       2,631
Bengkulu                     134         772       1,338
Lampung                      245         667       1,175
Total          3,548      10,791      18.131       32,470
Kalimantan        539,000          28        West Kalimantan              452       1,063          572
Central Kalimantan           274          64         125
South Kalimantan             422         582       1,499
East Kalimantan              336         338         299
Total          1,484       2.047       2,495        6,026
Sulawesi          189,000          10        North Sulawesi               672         289       2,174
Central Sulawesi             736       1,330       1,570
South Sulawesi               583       1,801       4,217
South-East Sulawesi          197         239       1,620
Total          2,188       3,659       9.581       15,428
The Principal
Smaller Islands   94,000            5        Bali                         389         333       1,018
West Nusa Tenggara           486         427         971
East Nusa Tenggara         1,117       1,753       2,000
Maluku                         89        509          396
Total          2,081       3,022       4,385        9,488
West Irian        422,000          22        West Irian                      -         115         914        1,029
(Indonesia New
Guinea)
GRAND TOTAL           11,308    27,559       60,914       99.781
Source:  Directorate General of Highways for national and provincial highways, for December 31, 1977;
Central Bureau of Statistics for district roads, for December 31, 1973.
October 1978



- 63 -
Table 2
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network - Type of Surface
National       Provincial      District
Type of surface        highways         highways        roads             Total
Km      %       Km       %     Km       %       Km        %
Paved                 7,646   67.6  14,861   53.9   9,781   16.1  32,288   32.4
Gravel                2,234   19.8   6,093   22.1  13,519   22.2  21,846   21.9
Earth                 1,428   12.6   6,605   24.0  11,619   19.1  19,652   19.7
Unspecified               -      -        -       -  25,995   42.6  25,995   26.0
Total          11,308  100.0  27,559  100.0  60,914  100.0  99,781  100.0
Note:  The Directorate General of Highways is currently arranging for a
detailed inventory of all district roads which will provide
up-to-date information on surface types of these roads.
Source: Directorate General of Highways, for national and provincial
highways, for December 31, 1977; Central Bureau of Statistics,
for district roads for December 31, 1973.
October 1978



- 64 -
Table 3
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network - Axle Load-Carrying Capacity
(National and Provincial Highways)
Axle Load Limit Classification
Region                   I       II       III    III-A       IV       V      Total
------------------------(km)------------------------
Java/I                  292   3,241    4,058        321      191      130    8,233
Bali                      0        0       462        0     256         0      718
Sumatera                176   1,067    5,281   5,099   1,701         386   13,710
Kalimantan/2              0      126       523   1,074   1,111        87    2,921
Sulawesi                  0      346    1,197   1,054   2,008        540    5,145
All other islands/3       0        0       161      635   1,475      140    2,411
All Indonesia           468   4,780   11,682   8,183   6,742   1,283   33,138
In % of Total             1       15        35       25       20        4      100
/1  Excludes DKI Jakarta.
/2  No information available for Central Kalimantan.
/3  Excludes Irian Jaya
Road Classification
Class    Max.Axle Load
tons
I           7.0
II           5.0
III           3.5
IIIA          2.75
IV           2.0
V           1.5
Source:  Directorate General of Highway, December 1976.
October 1978



INDONESIA
FIFFH HlIGHWAY PROJECT
DGII Geometric Design Standards /a
Primary Highways                      II                      Secondary Highways    _               II                         Feeder Roads
I            -1 I     A                                     11  B            -             II   C   _____                   III
Moun-                          i4oun-                        Moun-                            Moun-                           Moun-
Terrain                   Flat   Roliling   tainous   Flat   Rolling    tainous   Flat   Rolling   Lainious             Flat   Roll iig   tairrcis   Flat   Rollinig        tainous
Average Daily
Traffic (ADT) In                  20,000                    6,000-20,000                    1,500-8,000                         <2,000                         <I,000
Passenger Car Uniits
5ebign Speed (km/h)        120      100        80        100      80          60         80        bO       40           60        40         30        60        40          30
Miniiliin, Right of Way     60       60        60         40       40         40         30         30      30           30        30         30        20         20         20
(in)
Pavement Width (m)            Milnimum 4x3.75              2x3.50 or 4x3.50                      2x3.50                           2x3.00                       3.50-6.00/c
Minimum Median WidtLh                10                          1.5/b                             -                               -
(m)
Shouilder Width (m)       3.50    3.00       3.00       3.00   2.50        2.50        3.00      2.50    2.50          2.50      1.50      1.00                1.50-2.50/c
P'avement Cross Slope                2%                           2%                               2%                              3%                             4%
Shioulder Cross Slope                4%                           4%                               6%                              6%                             6%
Surfacing                   Asplhaltic Concrete (AC)              AC                               /d                              /d                              /d
(hot mix)
laximuim Super-                      10%                         10%                              10%                             10%                            10%
elevation
Minimum lHorizontal        560      350       210        350    210          115        210       115        50         115         50        30       115         50         30
Radius (m)
Maxi mum Grade              3%       5%        6%          4%     6%          7%         5%         7%       8%          6%        8%        10%        6%         8%        12Z
/a  P'avement strticture is designed in accordance with DGH's "A Guide for Pavement Design (Flexible)", 1974, No. 04/PO/BM, and for a design life of
dbotit ten years, uriless another desigin life would be warranted.  Bridges are designed in accordance with DGII's "Standard Loading Specification for
Highway Bridges", 12/1970.
/b  (Only for 4-lane highways.
/ c According to conditioni.
/d  Suirfacing selected can vary from single bituminous suirface treatment to asphaltic conicrete on the basis of economic conisiderations.
Generally roads witi thie above design standards can be varied flexibly to suit special conditions of traffic, land use or terrain.                                           cr
0D
S.oirce:  Direclorate General of llighways, Standard Document No. 13/1970.                                                                                                        in
October 1978



- 66 -
Table 5
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network
Number of Bridges by Bridge Class by Road Class for All Indonesia/l
(National and Provincial Highways)
Bridge Class
Road Class               IA       I        II      III    III-A      IV      Total
I                        0       80        85        1        0       0       166
II                     211      188    1,632      685       25        0    2.741
III                    131      187       855   3,572      540      200    5,485
IIIA                    74       52       365   1,419   1,236       373    3,519
IV                      29       22       152   1,259      896   1,141    3,499
V                        7        0         6     403       13       89       518
Total             452      529    3,095   7,339   2,710   1,803   15,928
In % of Total             3        3        20       46       17      11       100
/1 Excludes Irian Jaya
Road Classification                         Bridge Classification
Class   Max. Axle Load                     Class    Max. Axle Load
tons                                        tons
-   -                           IA         10.0
I          7.0                              I           7.0
II         5.0                              II          5.0
III        3.5                              III         3.5
IIIA       2.75                             IIIA        2.75
IV         2.0                              IV          2.0
V          1.5
Source: Directorate General of Highways, December 1976.
October 1978



- 67 -
Table 6
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicles Registered, 1967-76 /a
Total
Total     Motor-       motorized
Year        Cars /b      Trucks    Buses /c   4-wheel    cycles /d   vehicles
1967       184,954      94,892    18,840       298,686    287,522        586,208
1968       201,743      93,417    19,612       314,772    308,404        623,176
1969       212,124      95,660    20,497       328,281    336,597        664,878
1970       238,924    102,975    23,541        365,440    440,005        805,445
1971       256,988    112,877    22,562        392,427    510,764        903,191
1972       277,210    131,175    26,488        434,873    615,220    1,050,093
1973       307,739    144,060    30,368        482,167    720,056    1,202,223
1974       337,789    166,457    31,439        535,685    944,734    1,480,419
1975       383,061    196,416    35,103        614,580  1,191,771    1,806,351
1976       420,488    222,310    39,840        682,638  1,417,228    2,099,866
% Averagre Annual Growth
1967-1976       9.4         9.9       8.8          9.6        19.5          15.2
1967-1973       8.8         7.1       8.3          8.1        16.5          12.7
1973-1976      10.7        15.6       8.2         12.4        25.5          20.5
1975-1976       9.8        13.2      13.5         11.0        18.9          16.2
/a  Includes all registered vehicles, including nonoperational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
lb Includes taxis and jeeps (4-wheel drive).
/c Includes microbuses.
/d Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
Source: Directorate of Traffic, Police Headquarters.
October 1978



- 68 -
Table 7
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations - Geographic Distribution, 1976 /a
Motor-
Area                  Cars        Buses     Trucks      cycles /b     Total
Java and Madura      328,099    21,567    146,007       956,362     1,452,035
West                54,680      3,424     30,895      126,907       215,906
Central             35,695      3,769     31,409     209,571        280,444
East                67,459      3,398     35,295      306,304       412,456
Jakarta            170,265    10,976      48,408      313,580       543,229
Sumatera              57,105    12,084      46,810      269,270       385,269
North               28,601      5,826     19,532      159,642       213,601
Central              9,707      1,736     12,492      44,132         68,067
South               18,797      4,522     14,786      65,496        103,601
Kalimantan             11,236     1,208      7,969       50,757        71,170
Sulawesi              10,796      2,616     13,695       84,334       111,441
Other Areas           13,252      2,365      7,829       56,505        79,951
Indonesia            420,488    39,840    222,10   1,417,228        2,099,866
/a Includes all registered vehicles, including nonoperational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
/b Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
Source: Directorate of Traffic, Police Headquarters.
October 1978



- 69 -
Table 8
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Buses and Trucks in Use by Payload
Geographic Distribution
1976
Payload         Buses    %       Trucks    %      Trailers    %    Semi-trailers    %
(tons)
Java
O   - 0.5         2,902   19.5   27,774   22.0           232      4.0          -
0.5 - 1.0         1,380    9.3   31,749   25.1            38      0.7          2          0.9
1.0 - 1.5           329    2.2    3,962    3.1            18      0.3          1          0.0
1.5 - 2.5         4,584   30.9   10,264    8.1           103      1.8         10          4.2
2.5 - 3.5         5,598   37.7   22,242   17.6            81      1.4         20          8.4
3.5 - 4.0             52    0.4   26,496   21.0          234      4.1         11          4.6
> 4.0             5    0.0    3,929    3.1        5,025    87.7          198        81.9
Subtotal      14,850  100.0  126,416  100.0        5,731   100.0          242        100.0
Other
0   - 0.5            672    6.6    7,509   13.8          413   50.6           23         6.8
0.5 - 1.0         3,798   37.1   11,679   21.4            71    8.7            -          -
1.0 - 1.5         2,431   23.7    4,694    8.6            47    5.8           21         6.1
1.5 - 2.5         2,944   28.7   15,241   28.0           142   17.4           18         5.2
2.5 - 3.5           392    3.8    8,586   15.8            80    9.8           69        20.0
3.5 - 4.0             10    0.1    3,800    7.0           45    5.5           76        22.1
> 4.0             1      -      2,971    5.4          18    2.2          137       39.8
Subtotal      10,248  100.0   54,480  100.0          816  100.0          344       100.0
All Indonesia
0   - 0.5         3,574   14.3   35,283   19.5           645    9.9           23         3.9
0.5 - 1.0         5,178   20.6   43,428   24.0           109    1.6            2         0.3
1.0 - 1.5         2,760   11.0    8,656    4.8            65    1.0           22         3.8
1.5 - 2.5         7,528   30.0   25,505   14.1           245    3.7           28         4.8
2.5 - 3.5         5,990   23.9   30,828   17.1           161    2.5           89        15.2
3.5 - 4.0             62    0.2   30,296   L6.7          279    4.3           87        14.8
> 4.0             6      -      6,900    3.8      5,043   77.0          335        57.2
Total         25,098  100.0  180,896  100.0        6,547  100.0           586      100.0
Source:  Directorate of Traffic, Police Headlquarters
October 1978



- 70 -
Table 9
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Buses and Trucks in Use by Payload
1971 and 1976
Payload          Buses         Trucks       Trailers           Semi-trailers
(tons)
1971
O   - 0.5        3,218         13,206          424                    1
0.5 - 1.0        1,966         10,380           65                    6
1.0 - 1.5        2,255         5,323            27                    7
1.5 - 2.5        6,711         14,372          265                   17
2.5 - 3.5        3,336         11,592          153                   16
3.5 - 4.0            11        19,164          102                   68
> 4.0            3         7,691         1,567                  273
Total       17,500        81,728         2,603                  388
1976
0   - 0.5        3,574         35,283          645                   23
0.5 - 1.0        5,178         43,428          109                    2
1.0 - 1.5        2,760         8,656            65                   22
1.5 - 2.5        7,528        25,505           245                   28
2.5 - 3.5        5,990         30,828          161                   89
3.5 - 4.0            62        30,296          279                   87
> 4.0            6         6,900         5,043                  335
Total       25,098       180,896         6,547                  586
% Average Annual Growth
0   - 0.5         2.2           21.6          8.8                  87.0
0.5 - 1.0        21.3           33.1         10.9                 -24.6
1.0 - 1.5         4.0           10.3         19.2                  25.8
1.5 - 2.5         2.3           12.1         -1.5                  10.5
2.5 - 3.5        12.5           21.6          0.9                  41.3
3.5 - 4.0        41.3            9.6         22.4                   5.4
> 4.0        14.9         - 2.2          26.4                   4.2
Total         7.4          17.2          20.3                   8.6



- 71 -                              Table 10
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Buses and Trucks in Use by Region
1971 and 1976
Buses        Trucks        Trailers           Semii-trailers
1971
Java (excl. DKI)      5,271         38,742         1,992                   53
DKI                   5,127         11,606            53                  104
Total Java      10,398        50,348         2,045                   157
Bali                    534          2,199             2                    3
Sumatera              4,941         17,422           271                  194
Sulawesi                774          5,669           215                   11
Kalimantan              211          3,192            46                   21
Other                   642          2,898            24                    2
Total           17,500        81,728         2,603                   388
1976
Java (excl. DKI)      7,300         87,703        5,392                   108
DKI                   7,550         38,713           339                  134
Total Java    14,850         126,416         5,731                   242
Bali                    576          4,783             3                    4
Sumatera              6,261         28,027           282                  271
Sulawesi              1,627         10,180           452                   14
Kalimantan              439          6,631            50                   52
Other                 1,345          4,859            29                    3
Total          25,098        180,896         6,547                   586
% Average Annual Growth
Java (excl. DKI)       6.6           17.7           22.1                 15.3
DKI                    8.0           27.3           45.5                  5.2
Total Java        7.4          20.3           23.0                   9.0
Bali                   1.5           16.9            8.5                  5.8
Sumatera               4.9           10.0           10.8                  7.0
Sulawesi              16.0           12.5           16.0                  4.9
Kalimantan            15.8           15.8            1.8                 19.9
Other                 16.0           10.9            3.9                  8.5
Total             7.4          17.2           20.3                   8.6



JND)ONESIA
FIFT8 HIGHWAY PROJECT
Btidget Summary of Directorate General of Higways
(Rp'000)
1969-70      1970-71      1971-72      1972-73       1973-74      1974-75    1975-76        1976-77       1977-78      1978-79
1.  Rotitine
Administration                        166,248      229,000       245,837      316,086      302,701      661,534       762,619      876,042   1,193,507   1,430,753
Maintenance /a                        206,152       452,000      450,000      450,000      609,269       520,681      234,461      255,653      256,932       265,869
Total                               372,400      681,00O       695,f37      766,086      911,970   1,182,215        997,080   1,131,695   1,450,439   1,696,622
2. Development /b
Engineering                           607,000   1,177,882        675,000      790,000      979,776   3,368,272   4,753,340   5,447,261    5,686,867   2,600,000
Upgrading/new construction          6,592,614   6,189,100   7,667,500  12,383,500  13,317,145  32,995,455  38,243,243  48,234,328  56,728,015  67,713,000
Rehabilitation                      2,636,776   2,672,000   2,728,500   3,926,500   2,293,928   8,784,866   9,444,138  10,129,733   9,494,298  11,161,000
Maintenance /a                               -   1,534,060   4,370,000   3,400,000   2,574,151    1,858,060   2,166,000   2,205,000   2,287,635   2,900,000
ilanidling cost equipment &
materials ex. project aid,
workshop & other facilities         541,000   2,049,958   1,415,000         500,000   2,120,742   7,490,145   1,996,383   2,562,998   3,780,000                   -
Technical support services, IDA              -      152,000      190,000      160,000       60,000       143,417      200,000      128,855      356,400       400,000
Asphalt purchases                            -            -            -   2,000,000   4,652,258   4,209,785   1,080,110   4,964,824   7,607,000   6,200,000
Total                            10,377,390  13,775,000  17,0406000            0      25,998,000  58,850,000  57J883,214  73,672,999  85,940,215  90,974,000
3.  Total (I + 2)
AdTministration (head office)         166,248       229,000      245,837      316,086      302,701      661,534       762,619      876,042    1,193,507   1,430,753
Engineering                           607,000   1,177,882        675,000      790,000      979,776   3,368,272   4,753,340   5,447,261   5,686,867   2,600,000
UJpgrading/rnew construction        6,592,614   6,189,100   7,667,500  12,383,500  13,317,145  32,995,455  38,243,243  48,234,328  56,728,015  67,713,000
Rehabilitation                      2,636,776   2,672,000   2,728,500   3,926,500   2,293,928   8,784,866   9,444,138  10,129,733   9,494,298  11,161,000
Mainteniance                          206,152   1,986,060   4,820,000   3,850,000   3,183,420   2,378,741    2,400,461    2,460,653   2,544,567   3,165,869
liandling cost equipmenit &
materials ex. project aid,
workshop & other facilities         541,000   2,049,958   1,415,000         500,000   2,120,742   7,490,145   1,996,383   2,562,998   3,780,000                   -
Technical support services, IDA              -      152,000      190,000      160,000       60,000       143,417      200,000      128,855      356,400       400,000
Asphalt ptirchases                           -            -            -   2,000,000   4,652,258   4,209,785   1,080,110   4,964,824   7,607,000   6,200,000
Total                           IIO74 790  14,456,000  17,741,837  23,926b0H6  26909,970  60,032,215  58,880,294  74,804 76 390, 654  92.70 j622
/a  Because of its importance, maiinteniance of roads is charged mostly to development btidget.
/b Includies administration costs of projects.
Source: I)irectorate General of Highwatys.
October 1978



INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Budget Nonroutine Expenditures of Directorate General of Highways
1974/75 - 1977/78
(Rp billion)
Main-    Program
New construction             Betterment              Rehabilitation       tenance  support             Total
DDev.   Foreign            v.   Foreign            Dev.   Foreign            Dev.      Dev.      Dev.   Foreign
budget    aid    Total  budget    aid    Total  budget    aid    Total  budget   budget   budget    aid    Total
1974/75   16.0      9.0      25.0   16.5       -       16.5    8.8      0.7       9.5   1.9       15.7      58.9      9.7     68.6   1
1975176   13.3      9.5      22.8   24.9      1.0      25.9    9.4      0.7      10.1   2.2        8.1      57.9    11.2      69.1
1976/77   15.4      3.4      18.8   32.8    12.1       44.9   10.1    29.8       39.9   2.2       13.2      73.7    45.3    119.0
1977/78   16.4      4.8      21.2   40.3    20.5       60.8    9.5       -        9.5   2.3       17.4      85.9    25.3    111.2
1978/79   10.4    10.3       20.7   57.3    18.4       75.7   11.2       -       11.2   2.9        9.2      91.0    28.7    119.7
Source: Directorate General of Highways.
October 1978
H



INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Second Five-Year Plan Development Program of Directorate General of Highways
April 1974 - March 1979
Expenditure targets         Likely expenditure achievements
Physical targets                Likely physical achievements           Dev.      Foreign                 Dev.      Foreign
Name of program          Total    Completed    Underway    Total           Completed      Underway    budget         aid       Total    budget         aid       Total
--------------------------- Km -------------------------------    --------------------- Rp billion --------------------------
New construction           1,100        600           500         730          640              90        90          90         180        73            50       123
Betterment                10,000      5,000         2,900 /b  4,600          3,400           1,200       180          80        260        199            44       243
Bridge replace-
ment, lin. m /a        30,000      16,000        14,000    26,000         21,000           5,000        45          75         120        61            26        87
Rehabilitation            14,000    14,000               0     7,700         7,100             600
}      60           20         80        60            20        80
Maintenance               10,000    10,000         10,000      9,600         9,600           9,600
p.a.       p.a.          p.a.        p.a.          p.a.            p.a.
Total                                                                                              375          265        640       393           140       533
/a In budget tables, this item is included under new construction and betterment.
/b A further 2,100 km were to be studied but not started until after the end of the Plan.
March 1979



INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Physical Targets and Financial Allocations for Roads under National Development Program /a
(April 1, 1979 - March 31, 1984)
DGH budget                   MHA assistance to provinces__            MHA assistance to k4bupatens                         All budgets
Dev.   Foreign                            Dev.   Foreign                            Dev.   Foreign                            Dev.   Foreign
Type of Program                              Target   budget    aid         Total      Target   budget    aid         Total      Target   budget    aid         Total      Target   budget    aid         Total
(km or m) ---- (Rp billion)  ---    (km or m) ---- (Rp billion)  ---    (km or m) ---- (Rp billion)  ---    (km or m) ---- (Rp billion)  ---
I. New Construction
Intercity  roads                       625        66      123        189                                                                                            625
Urban roads                            370        59       89        148                                                                                            370
Subtotal I                       995       125      212        337                                                                                            975       125      212        337
II.  Road Betterment
Intercity  roads                     9,980       199      258        457                                                                                          9,980
Urban roads                          1,020       161        -        161                                                                                          1,020
Subtotal II                   11,000       360      258       618                                                                                          11,000       360      258        618
III.  Bridge Replacement
Intercity roads                     65,000       207      160        367      25,000       70        50        120                                              90,000        277      210        487
Urban roads                          5,930        25        -         25                                                                                          5,930        25        -         25
Kabopaten roads                                                                                                         47,500       85         40      125      47,500        85       40        125
Subtotal III                  70,930       232      160        392      25,000       70        50        120      47,500       85         40      125    143,430        387      250        637
IVA. Support Work
Intercity roads                     86,200/b    132        25        157      43,200/b   71          20         91                                              129,400/b    203        45        248
Urban roads '
Kabupaten roads                     85,800/b    100        50        150                                               120,000/b  170           60      230    205,800/b    270        110        380
Subtotal IVA                 172,000/b   232         75        307      43,200/b   71          20         91     120,000/b  170           6u      230   335,200/b   473          155        628
IVB. Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Rehabilitation                         800         7        -          7          770       6          2         8                                                1,570        13         2        15
Maintenance                         15,000/b       6        -          6      14,100/b      6          7        13                                               29,100/b      12         7        19
Subtotal IVB                        -       13        -         13            -      12          9        21                                                             25        9         34
Subtotal IV                         -      245       75        320            -      83        29        112                  170         60      230                   498      164        662
Grand total                         -      962      705      1,667            -     153         79       232                  255        100       355                1,370      884     2,254
/a Excludes toll roads.
/b  Represents cumulative km covered over five-year period.
Source:  Directorate General of Highways.
March 1979



_ 76 6
Table 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Project item                                                                    Start   Complete
A. Construction and improvement of national and provincial roads,
including bridges; about 800 km (Betterment Works)
Initial contracts (to be awarded by September 10, 1979)
1.  Prequalification of contractors                                      06/31/78  12/31/78
2.  Tendering                                                            02/22/79  05/27/79
3. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, Bank agreement for
inclusion of road sections under loan, and award of
contracts                                                         05/27/79  09/10/79
4.  Construction                                                         09/11/79  03/11/83
Final contracts (to be awarded in December 1979)
5. Complete detailed engineering, SFP reviews design, and SFP
technical and economic review reports sent to Bank for
comment                                                           08/31/78  03/31/79
6.  Tendering                                                            05/01/79  09/30/79
7. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, Bank agreement for
inclusion of road sections under loan, and award of
contracts                                                         09/30/79  12/31/79
8.  Construction                                                         01/01/80  12/31/83
B. Construction of bridge replacements; about 4,000 m (one-lane
bridge equivalent) (Bridge Replacement Program in Sumatera)/a
Initial contracts (to be awarded in March 1980)
1. Screen and complete design, SFP reviews design, and SFP
technical and economic reports sent to Bank for comment           06/30/79  08/31/79
2.  Tendering                                                            09/01/79  12/31/79
3. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, Bank agreement for
inclusion of bridge contracts under loan, and award of
contracts                                                          12/31/79  03/31/80
4.  Construction                                                         04/01/80  12/31/82
/a  Contracts are assumed to be awarded at an even pace between March 1 and June 30, 1980 for
bridge replacements. Schedules shown are illustrative for contracts at beginning and
end of period.



- 77 -
Table 15
Page 2
Implementation
Project item                                                                    Start   Complete
Final contracts (to be awarded in June 1980)/a
5. Screen and complete design, SFP reviews design, and SFP
technical and economic reports sent to Bank for comment            07/31/79  12/31/79
6.  Tendering                                                            01/01/80  04/30/80
7. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, Bank agreement for
inclusion of bridge contracts under loan, and award of
contracts                                                          04/30/80  06/30/80
8.  Construction                                                         07/01/81  01/31/83
( Consultants complete DPUP studies:
( - West Sumatera (revision)                                           03/01/79  04/30/79)
( - Bali, Yogyakarta, West Java, Central Java, East Java,
North Sumatera, Bengkulu                                         03/01/79  08/31/79)
C. Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment for DPUP
Improvement Programs
1. Prepare list of equipment, bid documents, Bank agreement,
international advertising of tenders, receive and evaluate
bids, Bank concurrence to Governmient's recommendations,
award of contracts, delivery of equipment                          03/01/79  05/31/80
D. Procurement of Highway Safety Equipment
1. Prepare list of equipment, bid documents, Bank agreement,
international advertising of tendLers, receive and evaluate
bids, Bank concurrence to Governnment's recommendations,
award of contracts, delivery of equipment                          10/01/79  12/31/80
E. Major Support Works for DPUP Improvement Programs
1. Prepare program, unit price cost estimates, Bank
agreement,                                                         08/31/79  10/31/79
2.  Construction of support works                                        04/01/80  03/31/83
F. Consulting Services (Initial date: Consultants appointed. Final
date: Work completed) /b
1.   Supervision of A.
- A.4 - Betterment Works, Initial contracts                         05/01/79  06/30/83
- A.8 - Betterment Works, Final contracts                           10/31/79  03/31/84
2.   Screening-feasibility studies of about 6,000 m of bridge
replacements and detailed engineering of about 4,000 m            04/01/79  12/31/79
la See footnote /a on page 1.
lb See footnote on page 3.



- 78 -
Table 15
Page 3
Implementation
Project item                                                                    Start   Complete
3.   Supervision of B.
- B.4 - Bridge Replacements, Initial contracts                      11/01/79  01/31/83
- B.8 - Bridge Replacements, Final contracts                        05/31/80  02/28/83
4.   Screening-feasibility studies of about 1,500 km of roads for
betterment                                                        01/01/80  12/31/80
5.   Detailed engineering of about 1,000 km roads selected from
above                                                             04/01/80  03/31/81
6.   Studies and other measures directed to needs of DGH                 07/01/79  12/31/83
7.   Overseas training of DGH staff                                      07/01/79  12/31/83
8.   Technical support services for DGH and selected DPUPs               07/01/79  12/31/83
9.   Preparation of improvement programs for 18 provinces                07/01/79  03/31/80
10.   Studies on Highway M4atters  ,                                      09/01/79  12/31/81
11.   Advisory services for Ministry of Communications                    07/01/79  06/30/80
12.   Support to domestic consulting and construction industries
For individual firms in highway sector                         07/01/79  06/30/81
For UNIDO scheme                                               07/01/79  06/30/81
/b Appointment of consultants is preceded by standard series of steps as follows:
Days
1.  Receive proposals                                                                     42
2.  Evaluate proposals and report                                                         21
3.  Approval of DGH procurement committee and IBRD concurrence                            30
4.  Invite consultant for negotiations                                                     10
5.  Conplete contract negotiations and prepare initialed draft contract                    14
6.  Approval of Government agencies and IBRD concurrence                                  28
7.  Arrangements for and signing contract                                                   7
8.  Issuance of notice to proceed                                                           4
9.  Consultants mobilization                                                              42
Total                  198
MTarch 1979



-79 -
Table 16
INDONESIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                              at End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                                  0
December 31, 1979                                               2,000
March 31, 1980                                                  6,000
June 30, 1980                                                  14,300
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                            23,000
December 31, 1980                                              32,400
March 31, 1981                                                 42,100
June 30, 1981                                                  52,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                            62,200
December 31, 1981                                             72,200
March 31, 1982                                                 82,300
June 30, 1982                                                  91,300
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                            99,300
December 31, 1982                                             106,900
March 31, 1983                                                114,200
June 30, 1983                                                 119,700
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                           123,500
December 31, 1983                                             126,400
March 31, 1984                                                128,200
June 30, 1984                                                 130,000
Source: Government/Bank Estimate
March 1979






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE CENTRAL AND PROVINCIAL WORKS ORGANIZATIONS
IN RELATION TO HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
27)
e11- stel >r p z q l    | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       l-1--1-l l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ullp ito ,n   r 1 PSP
I                    IoIar,ngru banana
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                                                                                                                                             OLP,ou,trcn,o alRuudt
J                                                                                             u~~~~~~~~~~~~tbe Prouanue)    
--- ---D---
t    X-FL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~ < ~~~~~~~~~~~ r-__ = Tent~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                                                                                                                    patt
S tupup                    [<ocrur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opp
PIAl.I                                                     I) LPA9                                              W 9                                              A| 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
SuSttgt ~     S~SruppuO           I     S.S,urn                  fff    frut                   -e Subfrrrra                                         DIubL,tus  tre            I,rtttp                   SubDS uretupatu           S,bpcur
Stutflrrrt urulupuen  ufSotehrrrr~                 uPOS            |                                                          |      |faun  (Dofv ft  allr   ufbrdent Wok    n  1Cod ut on   ruf nsrrrt             MrruApeegrt
|   {SUrPOr O' H-GIOflL fJeH ICES)           r,f    - e             ru no West                   Sb ofuuturar   v                                             iADVICL  S0 DPUP uS          a
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   --  _-                     -            -     --tr,rrr,                       of *                                    S _  _ _              I _  _                 Ja_g_
ufffrd  -                                                                     p.~~~~~---    ---    ---      -atidrre -Se -K-tmr- -t -
=   C q P---.1o r-   nB,t9lf .-d
C-r,,JS
F                              _        ~~~~~~~~I' ECHNICAL MATTER Sl
E,          Prormenl  Wurouns of EOucsr(l form furoatera nF 9 Puh.C WorS; DFpsrtmvre                                                      World 13-t






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR EXECUTION OF PROJECTS
NEW CONSTRUCTION, BETTERMENT I AND 11, BRIDGE REPLACEMENTS,
AND SUPPORT WORKS
Minister of
Publhc Works
Director General
of Highways                                                                 r
(BINA MARGA)                                                                  v-rn.r
OTHER
DIRECTORATES                                      New Construction &                       Betterment I l,Major Support
Betterment I                        Works, Bridge Repl.acm ents
Head of Proincial
DIrector of                    (ADVICE)              -           b                  Director of              b             P,blic Works
Construction                                                L                         Maintenance                             Department
(PEMBANGUNAN                                                           a                    (HAR)                                  (DPUP)
_ !   El                                                          I                          ~~~~~~~~~~I       I'1
i| ,Betterment   |          a    (ADVICE TO DPUP)                       I i        i
Offi- ~   ~           ~          ~          ~          I 
a     h b            I b                           [          (RBO)                                                                 J    lb    L                                                                                       Ot_erSectiaon
a                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd Special
I                                       I a   |   |   a   I   b   l  |l        il                 Units
Project                                Pro)-t                                                              -o-t                                  Project                                 Head of                                 Head of
Manager                                  anager                                                          Manager                                 Manager                             PWD - Section                          PWD - Special Unit
New Constructon                           Betterment I rt.Btdqe   or                                                                          Smallr  Bridge Prolects                      Suppart Works                           Support Works
l;  i   Ij       L                                                       l;       i                              li        t                              , I  I 
I                                      I 9   |                                      l               | M                  Resident                                    I j
| Hsi,ent Engineer         Ib          Hesident Enqineer            b                                   Resident Enginecr                          If Resuirclta              b        I b
S Inspectio Staff  l   l    |  Inspection Staff                                               Inspection Staff           ib            (If Rnsetion Stf
|a                j                   |  a                                                                                                                                                                                       I        
~~I                                                                                                                            I                                       I I I   I I II 
Coerro_cror                               Cocitracror        _J                                       |     Contractor        -               |    Contractor                            Foc  AccooUn, rii                        Force Account|
T-chn  i1 M,ut-
_  _      -_  _   NolN  T-eln cal Mutters                                                                                                                                                                                                            World BSook   19497






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROVINCE OF WEST SUMATRA
PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (DPUP)
ORGANIZATION CHART
|   West  Imatra~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eceara
-4--                                                                                                                                          
|neportun         Irnury o Heavyncnn                                                           F l               Farce              Admrrrs-          EdruiorerralHLO
Equipment K Suppiles                         Head of Runds                                                                                                   Heid ot Irrigation                                                                     Hekd of Building~~~~~~~Hed o Irracnon  eadof  uiling
DiDrutrn                                                                                       Diktion
Pl      | noa      OtperatioWork
S.---r P-h  -1oP.r& i. Waske   Du.....                                                                                                      OfP-n                                                                               Avert          t  usanict                     ina
-h,Hene                                      Pl8annig      Purchas194g tor                     rdt Pn                               i m acc                                                                                        Souther Fn  rot sumat                                                                                       u
Hea  of |uicHo                    Head oH Pubir Wurksce            Head of PIbriS ccWokse       l|       OHkdo Public Wunre         Head cc Puhirc Wonks|e           Head of Pubiinn Works  |      |Head ct PubIlc Works               Hea  of: PulcWr
Deparrmnnc Decrion              SecarlneOn Socctinu           |  Denarnrmnr Secoron               Sri acrreentSecrincn             SecarOnnenntStelcn              Saparonrent cannon               Daerrnmeoc Sectrot               Department hectrunn
of Hukin roggi                  ot Pacabumbun                    ot HOHtenabgar                  of Lulur.lcadacr,r                  of Padang                        of Suqlin                       uf Driinniuna                     OH  Palnan
Source- enoulocral Pub ioW:rks Dtptrment-ProuinHr otWearHuumatra
March. H7H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            World Bank-t949B






4'6010                                                                        ANDopOUTHf  CHINA                                PHILiPPINES
-60                                                                                          tASEA  BRUNEI                                   [OPROJECT LOCATIONS
This map has been pmpreaed by the
World 2ank s staff eaclosively far         A4L           sI
the oo,atnience of the readers of                L~'                                               AII   CA
Lh k   "mm    ~The denominations uised and the                  ING
boondeates shown on thisj map      ~IG O~
do not #mply. on fth part of the                         nAMAT             -LAS
40                   BIaegIkejere1\                                                INDIANV OCEAN                                                   e
Bin a,  ng MoraoChi     ci 
h gaI.OtO           20
20
PREVIOUS PROJECT CON~ST rUIok    on~Poe~L  23 N)                          6o~e 
-     SAMPLE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT~~~u Ht                                                                           S e- a Ktoom
VROVtNCIAL ROAD FUNcTIONS STUDYARAunju
- -  - PROVINCIAIIBOUNDARRIY
-  -   INTERNATIONAL ~~~~OUNDataRYkn
60                                                                  j                                                               WESTJAVA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ag  Kr
/~~~~0
50     ~~~~~~~~O0  160  200~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABI2
MILOESt                        4/
0               -    -                 1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~T         1so                        1001                        06






I    '; 1 51 Z    s              .   '
A: i'           V'XaC,g 
N  %   I                        IX a 
t -C,' 
-~
I   =    ,  ,1S             






IBRD 13928
12                                   122-                                  124-                     OCTOBER 1978
2~
CELE8ES  SEA
Air-mad   upang
Sontigi                                     Amu ~~~~~~~~~~~~Tomohb'n
No rt h   S u l o w es         Ka             Awangkon
omo          Toli Toli '>_~g
~Mepanga
4   55   IMepangat .         S         _~~~~ ~~~~Gorontalo   ~-           Kota ndage
--F--o~~~~~    Tolabolo Duloduo
0'ti / $:                             Feluk                                                                                         0'min,  '
Amlpebabo
Donggxi       tabali
Sura               Pangi             Ampon na
XX  Paza 6I,                                     ,Luwuk  Bak    B antak
ff  i C  eS   t ~r al           5u\   a w e si ,i7
ifKulgwi     r/           a   I  /
iiilo R             - -,-SXI angino (  \y 
8    S O U gt iri  \s \>g2\./'~X_ >ovn+/lob              rze/lk         ;0             <    INDONESIA
s 0                                                    ~~~~~~~~~PPRAISAL OF
N )  , radaiOnex _ nt_ ~ ><                                A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MomujiS            I          - ,,MfM9ill;>W-    bBungku                                               SULAWESI
\-d ln '>   ,_>   ->_  5,,  /  -t-    A jsNational highways
,YJ fam5ef  Palopo    /    0pLelewou    N                   _____h  Provincial highways
Polewali                             , Makule  i  fJ} S Q  u  t h -   %;>9          -------- Other roads
Previous project construction
Mojaen                  nrekakg                    E    s                                                  Thirdproject-CR 388 IND
u    a  A~~ el s-                             Fourth project-LN1236 IND
Sample project construction
rol/ukr                               ka           \\  Lam buya          Kendani                          Fifth project
Pore   drLo,                                                                        Provincial boundaries4-
/    Kend ril
Barru          Pm~u
WaOLtompone                                 Tom
Pangkai ne         Uj                                   I
Ujung Pandondanr'                                                 Wara   /
Sunggumainma                                               r n9taniwag La ok
Takalot- Bontoeng                                                                           50 o     oo      150     200
$ t--.,  BBhvuKmba                           Baubq U      unabungi                  Kilometers
Jeneponto   8Bonelohe                                                  a            so            too          i50
Benteng;)                                                                           6iso
124'                                 126'
~Borongbarang                                  .    sTHAItANO South Chbna Se&a  Y      PHILIPPNES
FZORES  SEA                         | t' Project locations
fOS f  %\LfYSI),tf (OCEANP
m                                  4:|alim~~~~~~~~~~Kaianta     ;                   NE
.feellww7 n 41 h.ve 0il nEt 4vs nm, Th e nemEmw inke w.d mI.  14
40nn~4.. ,I~w. Ulls mmI 40 ~ I0W4~ - 4  12Q- W404U14 o. c~ INDIAN            ova             I   Aeimofe,ap   J ya



