CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1696 IND
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 1, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1696 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1979, between REEUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways in the
Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(b) "First Project" means the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Highway Project) of
June 20, 1969, between the Borrower and the Association, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Second Project" means the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Second Highway Project) of
June 24, 1971, between the Borrower and the Association, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(d) "Third Project" means the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Third Highway Project) of
June 1, 1973, between the Borrower and the Association, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time; and
(L) "Fourth Project" means the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement (Fourth Highway Project) of April 15,
1976, between the Borrower and the Bank, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred thirty million dollars ($130,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate highway engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall formulate general design stan-
dards satisfactory to the Bank for the roads, road
sections and bridges included in Part A of the
Project.
(ii) The Borrower shall submit, no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1979, those road betterment schemes and
bridge replacement schemes for which the Borrower
seeks financing from the proceeds of the Loan to
the Bank for approval; provided that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, only schemes with an
economic rate of return exceeding 15% shall be
submitted.
(iii) The Borrower shall submit no later than August 31,
1979, the eight programs under Part B.2 of the
Project to the Bank for its review and approval,
and shall thereafter carry out the program, or
cause the program to be carried out, in accordance
with the programs' terms.
(c) The Borrower shall require the contractors carrying out
the construction, improvement and replacement of roads and bridges
referred to in subsections (b) (i) and (ii) above to design an
appropriate maintenance program for each of such roads or bridges
constructed, improved or replaced by them.
(d) The Borrower shall review, at least semiannually,
until the Closing Date, through DGH the implementation of its
ongoing highway program, including the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank for its comments the results of such reviews.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in highway
engineering, procurement, construction supervisior     feasibility
and other studies and surveys, staff training, Lad management
and operational development included in the Project, the Borrower
71


﻿-4-
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the other com-
ponents of the Borrower's highway program until the Closing Date,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the


﻿-5-
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction, improvement and replacement of the roads, road sections
and bridges included in the Project and shall, at the request of
the Bank, furnish to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.


﻿-6-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
described in Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of-certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the'
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that the roads (in-
cluding bridges and other road structures) constructed, improved
and replaced under the Project or the Second Project, Third
Project or Fourth Project or rehabilitated under the First Project
shall be adequately maintained and that all necessary repairs
thereof shall be made, all in accordance with appropriate highway
engineering and financial practices; that the funds, equipment,
workshop facilities and other resources required for the purpose
shall be provided promptly as needed; and that the maintenance of
every road or bridge constructed, improved or replaced under the
Project shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate
maintenance program designed to meet the specific requirements of
such road or bridge.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to take all steps required
to improve the maintenance of its national and provincial roads
(including bridges and other road structures) other than those
referred to in the preceding paragraph in order to reach as soon
as possible in respect of all such roads an adequate level of


﻿-7-
maintenance in accordance with appropriate highway engineering and
financial practices.
(c) The Borrower undertakes that all maintenance and repair
works on its national and provincial roads (including bridges and
other road structures) shall be adequately prepared, that the
expenditure of the national funds by its Provinces to finance such
works shall be duly monitored and that upon their completion all
such works shall be submitted to a detailed inspection, all in
accordance with appropriate highway engineering, financial and
accounting practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Bank and taking into account the findings of the study on road
user charges included in Part F.1 of the Project formulate an
appropriate action program, and shall implement such program by
December 31, 1981.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Bank, formulate a road safety program by December 31, 1980, and
shall thereafter implement such program.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date September 4, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DITJMON JKT 46415
Jakarta                          DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ D. Ashari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works for                40,000,000     50%
road betterment under
Part A of the Project
(2) Civil works for bridge        12,000,000      45%
replacement under Part
A of the Project
(3) Highway safety equipment:       3,000,000
(a) imported directly                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured locally                         65%
(c) locally manufactured                     100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(4) Cbzil works under Part B      10,000,000      35%
0f the Project
(5) Road works equipment:         22,000,000
(a) imported directly                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured. locally                        65%
(c) locally manufactured                     100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(d) vehicles:
(i) procured                             40%
locally
(ii) imported                            100% of foreign
directly                            expenditures
under inter-
national
competitive
bidding
(6) Services of consultants        20,000,000     100% of foreign
expenditures or
60%
(7) Overseas training               1,000,000     100%
(8) Unallocated                    22,000,000
TOTAL              130,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;


﻿- 11 -
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) pay-
ments made for expenditures with respect to Categories (4) and (5)
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the programs
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement for the
provinces of West Sumatera, Bali, North Sumatera, Bengkulu, West
Java, Central Java, Yogyakarta and East Java have been approved by
the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may clantinue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determinad that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
7.   The following provisions shall apply in respect to any of
the consultants' contracts for which the Borrower shall apply
for withdrawal under Category (6) above:


﻿- 12 -
(a) when submitting to the Bank the first withdrawal appli-
ocation with respect to each such contract, the Bodrower shall
notify the Bank as to whether the Borrower elects 100% of foreign
expenditures or 60% of total expenditures for sUich contract to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(b) no disbursement for any such contract shall be made
before the Bank has been notified of <the- Borrower's, election with
respect to such contract; and
(c) the 3ank shall take note of such election by the Bor-
rower with respect to each such contract, and any and all with-
drawals with respect to such contract shall be made in accordance
with such election.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's on-going highway pro-
gram and consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Construction, improvement and replacement of about 800
km of road sections and in Sumatera 4,000 m (one-lane
equivalent) of bridges.
Part B:   1.   Preparation over a five year period of improvement
programs for the Provincial Public Works Depart-
ments in about twenty-six provinces. The principal
purposes of such programs are to improve service-
ability of national and provincial roads by
increased maintenance and support works; to make
road operations in these provinces less costly;
to enable these Provincial Departments to assume
more responsibility for planning, designing, and
constructing roads, and to provide more technical
support for road activities at lower levels of
government.
2.   Implementation and execution of improvement pro-
grams in West Sumatera, Bali, North Sumatera,
Bengkulu, West Java, Central Java, -Ygyakarta
and East Java.
Part C:   1.   Screening-feasibility studies, together with pre-
liminary engineering, for betterment of about
1,500 km of roads in Sumatera, West Java, East
Java, and Bali, including detailed engineering
of about 1,000 km of roads identified by such
screening-feasibility studies.
2.   Screening-feasibility studies, together with pre-
liminary engineering, for replacement of about
6,000 m (one-lane equivalent) of bridges in
Sumatera, including detailed engineering of about
4,000 m (one-lane equivalent) of bridges identified
by such screening-feasibility studies.
Part D:   Strengthening the organization and management of (a) the
Directorate General of Highways and (b) the Directorate


﻿-14-
General of Cipta Karya and the Government of the Special
Province of Jakarta with respect to activities directly
related to highways and transportation matters, by
providing for, inter alia, studies, technical assistance
and training courses.
Part E:   1.  Identifying needs of individual Indonesian highway
consulting and construction firms, and taking
actions to overcome deficiencies.
2.   Upgrading and strengthening of the Indonesian con-
struction industry.
Part F:   1.  Implementation studies on the most effective way
of introducing larger vehicles into Indonesia,
improved vehicle weight and enforcement procedures
and the best way f or raising road user charges.
2.   Identification of strategic interurban roads to be
approved for higher axle limits.
3.   Development of a suitable vehicle operating cost
model.
4.   Recommendation of policies for the road trans-
port industry with a view to improving overall
efficiency.
5.   Preparation of the basis for comprehensive and
consistent highway and traffic legislation and
hip' -y design standards.
6.   Preparation and partial implementation of a highway
safety program.
Part G:   Strengthening the Ministry of Communication in the
areas of general transport planning and transport data
management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1984
through   September 15, 1998                4,335,000
On March 15, 1999                                 4,285,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-16-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     2.35%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.10%
More than eighteen years
bef ore maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of inteinational competitive bidding.
3.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A or Part B of
the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) Bid invitations shall, whenever feasible, be grouped
together in order to attract international competition.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-18-
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts of an estimated value of\ $1,000,000 equivalent
or less for ciril works may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding adverzised locally under the Borrower's procurement pro-
cedures sati6factory to the Bank.
2.   Bridge contracts estimated to cost at least $500,000 equiv-
alent but less than $1,000,000 equivalent may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under the Bor-
rower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Road works for Provincial public works may be carried out
by force account.
4.   Contracts for vehicles may be awarded through local shop-
ping on the basis of at least three price quotations, provided,
that the number of vehicles so procured shall not exceed ten.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Indonesia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Indonesia.
4I


﻿-19-
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported -and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If,.as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison ouily, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this Sched-
ule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by
the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a
domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the evalua-
tion and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿- 20 -
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) .above.
. E. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. With respect to all contracts
for which international competitive bidding is required, the
Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank
in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part D above and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank-shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts to be entered into after inter-
national competitive bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿211
- 21 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c), The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


