Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12647
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2141-PA)
DECEMBER 30, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2141-PA)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENIS
Local Currency Unit                                 =  Guarani (G)
Rate at Appraisal (April 19, 1982)                  =  US$1/G126
Rate at Completion (December 31, 1991)              =  US$1/G1352.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AUCA    Association of Users of Agricultural Credit
BNF       National Development Bank
CAH       Smallholder Credit Agency
CNFPA   National Council for the Development of Agricultural Production
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
IBR       Rural Welfare Institute
MAG       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOPC    Ministry of Public Works
ONCAP   National Office for the Coordination and Administration of Projects
SEAG      Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service
UNDP    United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Direor-Goneral
Operation Evaluation
December 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Paraguay
Eie Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 2141-PA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Paraguay - Eje Norte Rural Development Project
(Loan 2141-PA) prepared by the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared
by the Borrower. Part II agrees with the PCR findings but notes that positive changes took place since
project closing.
The "old style" area development project aimed at improving smallholder productivity, incomes and
living conditions through the construction of rural feeder roads, on-farm credit for growers of tobacco,
cotton and soybeans, improved extension and research services, and settler land titling.
Feeder roads and land titling (a requisite for on-farm credit) while delayed were eventually
completed as appraised. Technical assistance to farmers was weak, being confined to limited contact during
the preparation of farmers' investment plans. Little research was carried out. Important impediments to
implementation were traceable to the policy environment (overvalued exchange rate, trade restrictions)
which resulted in fewer areas improved and lower incomes for the project's beneficiaries. Project
implementation, however, improved after 1987, when policy reforms were introduced. A significant
proportion of the on-farm credit went to large farmers, contrary to appraisal expectations, and those
benefits which were obtained derived largely from cotton and soybean crops (grown mostly by large farmers)
and from ranching. The original design aimed at intensive tobacco production by small-scale farmers.
Tobacco, however, is no longer planted in the project area due to inadequate technical packages and lack
of access to credit by small-scale farmers. No financial rate of return is available for the productive
components, a result of a poor Monitoring and Evaluation component.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability unlikely (especially with
respect to the feeder roads) and its institutional development as negligible.
The PCR provides a detailed account of the project experience and is of high quality.
An audit is planned together with a parallel project upon its completion (Caazapa Area
Development, Loan 2087-PA).
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJ.ECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2141-PA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N
Preface .........................................  i
Evaluation Summary  .........              .....................    iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....  1
Project Identity ................................... 1
Background ....................................   1
Project Objectives, Description and Organization  ....          .........  4
Project Cost .................................... 5
Project Design    ..................................    5
Project Risks   ...................................    9
Project Implementation ................. 9
Project Results .................................. 14
Sustainability .............. 17
Institutional Performance ........            .................... 17
Audits and Covenant Compliance ....................... 19
Findings and Lessons ........             ......................  19
PARTII:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE   .          ......................... 22
PART m:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .....                       ........... 23
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans  ........................ 23
Table 2.  Project Timetable .......................... 24
Table 3.  Loan Disbursement ......................... 24
Table 4.  Project Implementation  ......... ............. 25
Table 5.  Project Cost and Financing  ......... ........... 26
Table 6.  Project Results  ........................... 27
Table 7.  Status of Covenants ......................... 30
Table 8.  Use of Bank Resources  ......... ............. 34
Table 9.  Comparison of Lending and Infation Rates  .... ...... 36
Table 10. Credit Component: Financial Statements at End of Year . . 37
Table 11. Financial Performance of BNF (Consolidated)  ..          ...... 38
Table 12. Financial Performance of BNF's Agricultural Department  . 39
Table 13. BNF's Support to the Agricultural Sector  ....          ....... 39
Table 14. Crops Financed by Ln. 2141-PA  .......             .......... 40
Map IBRD - 16176
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
FJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2141-PA)
Preface
1.    This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the Eje
Norte Rural Development Project for which Loan 2141-PA for US$ 22.4
million equivalent was approved by the Board, March 23, 1982 and signed
on May 26, 1982. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1987 was
extended first to December 31, 1988, then to December 31, 1989, and finally
to December 31, 1991. The Loan Account was closed July 20, 1992 and the
outstanding balance of US$ 2.87 million was cancelled (in addition to the
US$ 1 million cancelled in April 1987).
2.    This PCR was prepared by Agriculture Operations Division IV of the
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, on the basis of the Project
Brief, Appraisal Report and Report of the President, the Loan Agreement and
its Amendments, Supervision Reports, the Borrower's Progress Reports and
the correspondence files (14 volumes). Project technical papers, Country
Economic Memoranda, Agricultural Sector Reviews and information obtained
from personal interviews with individuals involved with the project were also
used. A draft PCR was sent to the Borrower; the Borrower's comments on
that draft are incorporated in this report.






- iii -_
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
EXE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2141-PA)
Evaluation Summary
1.    Objectives: The Eje Norte Rural Development Project, an 'old-
style" area development project, aimed at improving smallholder
productivity, incomes and living conditions through the following
components: (a) rural infrastructure, including the construction of new
secondary and rural feeder roads and the improvement of existing feeder
roads, and health services; (b) a line of short and medium-term credit for
2,500 small farmers engaged in the production of cotton, tobacco and
soybeans; (c) improved extension services and agricultural research; (d)
technical assistance to improve land titling, strengthen cooperatives, and
enhance the performance of MAG's Planning Department (Part I, paras. 13-
14).
2.    The design and structure of this project were similar to other rural
development projects in Paraguay, with an emphasis on infrastructure and
credit, and, to a lesser extent, social services. While the Bank did make an
effort to tailor the project to the region and its population, this did not
include beneficiary participation or the involvement of NGOs, factors which
are now standard in more recent agricultural lending. To the detriment of
certain aspects of project implementation, a potential collaboration with the
German Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ) was dropped because GTZ pre-
conditioned its lending in the project area on the issuance of a minimum
number of land titles, and the likely delays were incompatible with the FY83
Board schedule preferred by the Bank (Part I, paras. 17, 20-21).
3.    Despite a significant presence of indigenous communities in the
project area, it was decided, on the basis of a survey commissioned by the
Bank, not to include land titling and technical assistance components for
them. Nor did the project address issues concerning women or the
environment. Put into the context of the early eighties, such components
were not considered essential to an agricultural project package, although
environmental concerns were rapidly evolving in the Bank, and the Bank's
lending strategy in Paraguay did call for natural resource conservation (Part
I, paras 17 and 59).
4.    Implementation Experience: The impact of the prevailing fiscal and
macroeconomic policies on the success of project implementation was



- iv -
conspicuous in the Eje Norte Project. Important impediments to
implementation were traceable to the policy environment. Their significance
was revealed in the marked improvement in project implementation after
1987, when reforms were introduced in fiscal, trade and, especially,
exchange rate policies.
5.    A series of problems beyond the control of the coordinating and
implementing agencies, and the Bank, seriously delayed project execution.
These included delays by the Borrower in complying with the conditions for
loan effectiveness; inadequate counterpart funding; and two disbursement
suspensions covering the entire Bank portfolio, resulting from disagreement
between the Bank and the Government over the exchange rate to be applied
to the disbursement of Bank funds. As a result, significant progress in
project implementation did not begin until 1987, five years after loan
effectiveness.
6.    Delays in the roads/infrastructure components caused disbursements to
lag in the initial stages of the project. However, the pace of road
construction (46% of project base costs) picked up sharply from 1987 on.
Misunderstandings developed between the Bank Disbursement Division
(LOAEL) and the Ministry of Public Works (MOPC) regarding legitimate
reimbursable costs under force account, but the issue was resolved in a
satisfactory manner.
7.    The Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) was selected as lending
institution for the implementation of the credit component (29.2% of base
costs). The BNF's preference for land titles as a prerequisite for sub-loans
created a severe bottleneck for sub-loan disbursements to small farmers in an
area where only 8.4% of such farmers held title to their land. Tl encourage
lending and accelerate sub-loan disbursements, the interpretation of the
component's beneficiaries was liberalized. Eligible beneficiaries, as stated in
the Loan Agreement, were to be small farmers with less than 30 ha. of
suitable cropping land. However, in 1988, the definition of beneficiaries was
reinterpreted to include ranchers with up to 400 ha. but cultivating 30 ha.,
and agro-industrial concerns, a decision which should have been reflected in
an amendment to the Loan Agreement.
8.    Negative interest rates were a persistent problem. The Project
Agreement stipulated that positive interest rates would be maintained and that
rates should be reviewed and adjusted annually in light of the changes in the
CPI in the previous twelve months. However, such reviews were irregular
and adjustments were rarely large enough to keep rates positive.
9.    The implementation of the remaining components suffered from late
and insufficient counterpart funding. Project administration was good,
despite the coordinating body's lack of control over project funds and the
executive agencies (Part I, paras. 32-52).



- v -
10.   Project Results: Almost all the SAR physical targets were met and
in many cases, surpassed. The road component contributed to the
consolidation of a zone of development, as demonstrated by increased
commercial activity and agricultural production in the area. Improved
market access for farmers' produce increased competition for local produce,
and farm-gate prices. Better title registration, as well as accelerated title
issuance, are identifiable project accomplishments.
11.   All sub-loan funds were disbursed. However, technical assistance
from BNF to farmers was weak, being confined to limited contact during the
preparation of the investment plan. To address this limitation, SEAG entered
into an agreement with BNF to bolster extension services, with satisfactory
results. According to one report, sub-project appraisal standards were poor.
There are indications suggesting that: (a) a significant proportion of the
subloans went to larger farmers; (b) although more than 3,500 loans were
issued, many were probably repeater sub-loans to the same beneficiaries;
and, (c) some loans may have been extended to farmers outside the project
area. Finally, since half of the medium-term credit under this project
financed the clearing of forests, the impact upon the environment was likely
to have been negative, a consequence of appraisal not heeding the Bank's
lending strategy on resource conservation.
12.   The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR) fell to 7%, as
compared with 18.6% in the SAR. Three factors decreased the project ERR:
(a) unforeseen, adverse developments in world agricultural commodity
markets for the principal crops grown in the project area; (b) the virtual
disappearance of tobacco production in the project area; and, (c) attenuated
project implementation, especially of road improvements upon which market
access was dependent, significantly delayed the stream of net benefits.
Stronger world prices did not evolve according to the Bank's commodity
price projections at the time of appraisal (see Part III, Table 11). Market
developments naturally influenced producers' planting decisions. Instead of
tobacco area expanding from 130 ha. to 2,860 ha., as was anticipated in the
SAR, cultivated area fell to 35 ha. by project closing. Nearly 70% of the
estimated gains in the SAR's ERR analysis was derived from projected
increases in the value and volume of local tobacco production (Part I, paras.
53-62).
13.   Project Sustainabilitv: The economic benefits of road construction
and upgrading will be sustained as long as the Government provides
sufficient funds to maintain them. It is unlikely that the flow of credit will
be sustained; it was reported that the BNF had already reduced its presence
in the project area. Sustainability of the credit program might have been
attainable had technical and other assistance been provided to the BNF to
reduce the costs and risks of lending to small farmers. In addition, greater
efforts could have been made to promote the formation of borrower groups
(Part I, para. 63).



- vi -
14.   Flndines and Lessons: The Eje Norte project did encourage
economic development in the project area through improved road
infrastructure and credit. Maintenance of these roads was one of the
principal activities contemplated for community organizations formed under
the project. Once the infrastructure improvements were in place, farmers
with access to the relatively attractive project credit were able to finance on-
farm investments which, combined with the benefits of better roads,
increased their net returns. The impact of the other components, especially
land titling, health and cooperative strengthening, while limited, was positive.
15.   Given the importance of upgrading the road network prior to the
implementation of the other components, the project would have been more
efficient and project supervision more effective, had the project been divided
into two phases: the first, concentrating on infrastructure and the second, on
agricultural credit and services.
16.   The following lessons of experience emerge from the Eje Norte
Project. More recent agricultural credit and rural infrastructure projects
have, to a considerable extent, already taken these elements into account:
A.    Project Design: There were several macroeconomic issues
which, had they been addressed at project outset, would have
facilitated project implementation. These included: (i) the multiple
exchange rate policy; (ii) Government fiscal spending practices which
frequently caused counterpart funding to be withheld from projects;
(iii) the depressing effect of an overvalued exchange rate and export
taxes on agricultural export activity; and, (iv) financial policies which
imposed a ceiling on interest rates. In short, macroeconomic
considerations must be factored in during preparation.
At the design stage, an appreciation of the importance of
seemingly secondary concerns, such as titling, is fundamental.
Similarly, practical factors such as provision for vehicle maintenance,
should not be overlooked; and, road designs need to correspond not
only to local traffic conditions, but also to the available resources to
maintain them.
Projects which recognize the importance of beneficiary
participation in design and implementation are more likely to have
greater socio-economic impact. In this regard, the beneficiaries need
to be clearly and reasonably defined to target benefits and minimize
leakages. Size of landholding, the key defining factor in this project,
proved inadequate. Broader criteria such as household income and
net return are now commonly factored in.
B.    Credit: Careful attention is required in the selection of the
appropriate financial institution for credit operations. An assessment
not only of the institutions' financial soundness, but also of their



- v'ii -
clientele and lending practices, will help determine which best
supports project objectives. Once identified, institutional weaknesses
need to be addressed; and if necessary, measures included to reduce
the cost and risk (real and perceived) associated with lending to
certain groups of beneficiaries.
The longer-term objective of Bank credit components
administered by public institutions should be, to the extent possible,
the formation of a cadre of small farmers which, having established
credit histories (which implies disciplined credit management), can
"graduate" into the commercial credit market, paving the way for a
more conventional relationship between this market and the small
farm subsector. The Bank is moving in this direction: in the LAC
region, the Small Farmer Services Project in Chile (3473-CH) is a
good example of this idea, along with the small farmer credit aspects
of the proposed Natural Resource Management Project in Paraguay.
If it becomes apparent that project targeting is faulty and
leakages are occurring to unintended beneficiaries, instead of
redefining the beneficiaries (as was done in this project), constraints
to access should be addressed through modifications in the Loan
Agreement, the practices of the financial institution and executive
agencies, and/or prevailing policies.
C.    Project Administration: Units for project administration
require adequate control over project funds and executing agencies;
and the relationship between the project unit and the executing
agencies should be clearly defined and agreed to by all parties.
Uncertainty concerning the availability of counterpart funding may be
reduced by having a separate line item for it in the national budget
(although there is no substitute for government commitment to the
project) (Part I, paras. 70-72).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
EIE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
(Loan 2141-PA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identitv
1.    * Project Name:    Eje Norte Rural Development Project
* Loan Number:   2141-PA
* RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
* Country:        Paraguay
* Sector:         Agriculture
* Sub-sector:     Rural Development
Back2round
2.    Economic Situation: Despite the country's economic potential and
political stability since 1954, economic growth in Paraguay did not accelerate
until the early 1970's. Government investments in infrastructure, principally
roads, and its colonization program, facilitated the assimilation of new lands
into agricultural production. The economy was further stimulated by a
strong agricultural export sector, and activities related to the construction of
the Itaipu hydroelectric project. The growth rate of the economy rose from
an annual average of 4.0% during 1960-70 and 6.6% during 1971-75 to
11.4% during 1976-80.'
3.    The agricultural sector, mainstay of the national economy, contributed
about 30% of the GDP, 40% of total employment, and 80% of the
merchandise export earnings. Sectoral growth averaged 4.2% annually
during the sixties. Between 1974 and 1980, the average annual growth rate
reached 7.6%. The favorable world market conditions which prevailed for
soybeans and cotton, Paraguay's main export commodities, encouraged
production increases. Over the decade of the seventies, the production of
cotton expanded seven-fold and soybeans, five-fbld.
4.    Macroeconomic Pblicies: The Government's fiscal management of
the economy continued long-established principles of strictly-controlled public
expenditures.2 Central Government's current expenditures grew at a slower
pace than that of the GDP, and declined as a proportion of GDP from 7.6%
in 1975 to 6.7% in 1979. Restrictive public spending limited the public
1. Economic Memorndum on Paraguay, World Bank, September, 1981.
2. ibid.



- 2 -
sector agencies' ability to provide adequate basic services. Multiple
exchange rates and the export tax regime decreased incentives to exports and
reduced producers' returns for agricultural export commodities. The
distortionary effects of Government regulations on the financial system and
domestic credit markets became increasingly pronounced after 1976, as the
rate of inflation accelerated. In 1978 and 1979, the annual inflation rates
reached 10.6% and 28.2%, respectively, from 5% in 1976. Meanwhile, the
interest rate ceiling for production credit remained 12% p.a.
5.    Development and Colonization Policies: The Government's National
Development Plan of 1979 sought to: (a) increase the rate of rural
investment, output and employment; (b) improve income levels and
distribution; and (c) encourage rational management and conservation of
natural resources.3 The administration which subsequently took control in
February 1989, proved to be more committed to these goals and perceived
rural development projects as a genuine means to improving rural living
standards.
6.    Area expansion was responsible for the considerable increase in
agricultural production during the mid- to late seventies. Colonization,
carried out chiefly by small farmers, but to some extent larger farmers,
frequently Brazilian, extended the agricultural frontier. Farmers migrated
from the minifundia areas around Asunci6n eastward towards the Brazilian
border. Originally, the colonization movement was sponsored and controlled
by the Government. Later, encouraged by new roads into the frontier
Eastem region, migrations grew and became spontaneous.
7.    Until the mid-seventies, the objective of the Govemment's
colonization program was to resettle as many farm families as possible, at
lowest cost, from the congested departments of Cordillera and Central, near
Asunci6n, and to expand the agricultural frontier, particularly in the Eastern
region. Under the official colonization program, more than 200,000 families
were settled. But the scope of the program was so limited that many were
settled in areas lacking basic social and economic infrastructure, marketing
facilities, credit or inputs. This led to the proliferation of subsistence
farming. The colonies were often situated on soils poorly suited for
cultivation, causing erosion and loss of fertility.
8.    The colonization program was administered by the Instituto de
Bienestar Rural (IBR). The role of the IBR was restricted by weak
administrative and planning capacities and insufficient financial resources.
While its responsibilities were sweeping - including titling, provision of
infrastructure, credit, extension and marketing services - the effective role of
the IBR was confined to the issuance of titles. IBR's titling procedures were
slow: from 1975 to 1979, IBR issued just under 13,000 titles, with 58,000
applications pending by the end of 1979. Beneficiaries reported the process
to be complicated, involving up to 70 steps. Settlers often confronted
3. Project Brief, August 14, 1981



administrative constraints in the development of their economic activities,
since access to credit and other services was contingent upon having land
title.'
9.    Agricultural Credit Markets: Loans from Banco Nacional de
Fomento (BNF), the largest source of institutional credit to the agricultural
sector, represented about half the institutional sectoral credit in FY80. In a
country where most farmers do not have full title to their land, almost three-
quarters of the BNF clientele owned their land outright, reflecting the
emphasis BNF placed on land titles as collateral for loans. Less than 2% of
the value of BNF's total loan portfolio went to farmers with less than 10 ha.;
52% went to farmers with between 10 and 30 ha., and more than 46% went
to farmers with 30 ha or more. Average farm size receiving BNF loans was
85 ha.
10.   Cr6dito Agricola de Habilitaci6n (CAH), a Government-owned
financial institution, provided short-term production credit to small-scale
farmers (7 to 25 ha). The objective of CAH was to assist farmers who might
be ineligible for institutional credit from other sources, due primarily to their
lack of land titles or other collateral. By virtue of their membership in a
credit users' association, farmers could borrow from the CAH. The
objectives of these associations were to enable members to obtain credit, to
promote cooperation among farmers, to facilitate the adoption of new
technologies and marketing techniques, and to develop leadership among
farmers.
11.   Bank's Strategy and Experience in Rural Development Projects:
The Bank's lending strategy called for: (a) expanding the agricultural area;
(b) increasing agricultural productivity; (c) diversifying production; (d)
increasing agricultural exports; (e) improving income distribution; (f)
conserving natural resources; and (g) strengthening agricultural institutions.
This project intended to promote the Government's sectoral and
macroeconomic objectives by increasing investment in the agricultural sector
to increase production and productivity, farmer incomes and export earnings.
12.   By 1980, it was apparent from experience with two previous rural
development projects (RDPs), Caaguazu and Eje Este, that implementation of
RDPs in Paraguay was difficult.5 Weak local institutions impaired the
effectiveness of administration, chronic counterpart funding deficiencies
resulted in tardy execution of infrastructure components and lengthy land title
issuance procedures slowed credit disbursements. These delays increased
project costs, reduced benefits and decreased the projects' economic rate of
return. Earlier projects demonstrated the significance of the timing of the
road and land titling components. Land titling efforts influenced the rate of
credit accessibility. In those projects, land titling and road construction set
4. The Agriculture Sector of Paraguav, World Bank, February, 1976.
5. Letter June 20, 1980



the pace for on-farm development.6 Farmers without title and reasonable
access to roads contributed only marginally to production gains.
Project Objectives. Description and Oreanization
13.   The project aimed at improving smallholder incomes and living
conditions, by supporting efforts to: (a) increase agricultural production and
productivity; (b) provide infrastructure, particularly roads and health
services; and (c) support institutional development.
14.   The project financed the following:
(a)   Roads: the construction of 100 km. of rural feeder roads, the
improvement of 46 km. of secondary roads and 560 km. of
existing feeder roads; and Ministry of Public Works (MOPC)
construction, consultant engineers, construction equipment, and
4 1/2 years of maintenance.
(b)    Smallholder Credit: credit for short and medium-term
investments for 2,500 smallholders through BNF, for four
years. Short-term working capital would finance agricultural
inputs and interim family consumption; and medium-term
investment credit would finance agricultural implements, wells,
fences, and pasture establishment.
(c)    Extension and Research: expansion of the regional office of
the National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service
(SEAG) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) to include
additional extension agents and home economists; foreign
advisors, vehicles and operating expenses; and equipment for
the existing research facility.
(d)   Land Titling: assistance to IBR to improve its procedures for
issuing 3,500 land titles in the project area; this included hiring
additional staff, purchasing, operating and maintaining
vehicles, and constructing new branch offices.
(e)    Technical Assistance: an internationally-recruited agricultural
economist to advise MAG's Department of Planning for two
years on the analysis of public investment policies for the
agricultural sector, and in the identification and preparation of
agricultural projects; some 12-person months of short-term
technical assistance and 8-person months of training; technical
assistance for the Field Coordinator and the regional units of
the implementing agencies.
6. Back to Office report, January 6, 1978



(f)    Project Administration: a Central Projects Coordinating Unit
(ONCP) which would also administer the Caazapl Project;
financing would cover the salary for the Field Coordinator and
staff, a share of the costs of the ONCP center, plus the Field
Coordinator's revolving fund to cover unfbreseen expenses.
Ministries would budget for, and subsequently reimburse,
expenditures from the fund.
(g)    Other Activities: local consultants to assist in the formation
and strengthening of local producer cooperatives; seed money
for a joint venture between the MAG and the private sector to
establish and operate a tobacco processing plant;7 construction
and equipping of sixteen health posts and one health center,
and training for local health staff; and the manufacture of
6,600 latrines.
Project Cost
15.   The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal at US$ 40.9
million equivalent. The foreign exchange component, which was about 55 %
of the total cost, i.e. US$ 22.4 million, was financed by the loan. The
remaining cost (US$ 18.5 million) was to be financed by the Government
directly or indirectly through BNF.
Project Desi2n
16.  The project concept had been already formulated long before the
project site had been identified.' It would mirror other RDP's in the
country, emphasizing infrastructure (mainly roads), credit, and, to a lesser
extent, social services. With the technical assistance of the FAO Cooperative
Program and UNDP, the physical characteristics of several possible project
sites were evaluated. The site the Government preferred the most and the
Bank, the least, was eventually selected for this project.9 Major
shortcomings of the area included relatively low soil fertility and scarce
water resources.
17.   While the Bank did make an effort to tailor the project to the region
and its population, this did not include beneficiary participation or the
involvement of NGOs, actions which have become standard in more recent
agricultural project lending in LAC. Further, despite a survey which
revealed a significant presence of indigenous communities in the project area,
it was decided not to include land titling or technical assistance components
7. This project component was cancelled on April 9, 1987, as private and public sector
interest in the plant dissipated due to the dramatic decline in tobacco production in the area.
8. Memo, January 6, 1978.
9. Project Brief, September 14, 1981



- 6 -
for these people. Nor did the project address issues of women or the
environment. Put into the context of the early eighties, such components
were not considered essential to an agricultural project package at that
time,"0 although environmental concerns were rapidly gaining attention and
the Bank's lending strategy for Paraguay di call for natural resource
conservation.
18.   Three standardized farm models were used as the basis for project
design. These models assumed all producers behaved as commercial
farmers, motivated by profit maximization. According to some sources,
many farmers, especially the smaller ones, were more concerned with
maximizing family well-being, than profits."1 An identification of the
distinct production orientations among beneficiaries could have resulted in
significantly different farm crop portfolios for the farm models. The family
welfare goals of the smaller farmer may have warranted relatively greater
weight on risk mitigation and home consumption.
19.   Design of the credit, research and extension components was crop
specific. A fixed number of crops was identified as being eligible for
assistance: these included traditional export crops such as cotton, tobacco and
soybeans, as well as the basic food crops of maize, cassava and beans. This
approach discouraged crop diversification. A production system approach for
these services would have been better able to address such issues as natural
resource management, soil conservation, and optimal crop portfolios.
20.   The project was originally designed assuming there would be
substantial collaboration with the German Agency for Tbchnical Cooperation
(GrZ). It was proposed that the project be jointly-financed by GTZ and the
Bank, with each entity assuming responsibility for specific components.
(iTZ's expected participation would have included their on-going lending
program, as well as a strengthening of their existing research and extension
activities in the project area. The credit component would be divided
geographically and would differentiate among the beneficiaries. GTZ would
operate with smaller farmers in the northem area through CAH, and the
Bank, in the southem area, through BNF. The Bank would finance all credit
for larger farmers throughout the project area.
21.   However, GTZ was dismayed by the slow pace of land title issuance
in the project area and, as a precondition for future lending, established a
target number of titles to be issued. As the Bank could not delay Board
presentation until these conditions had been met, the idea of collaboration
with GTZ had to be dropped. To some extent, sufficient flexibility had been
built into project design to permit adjustments to the contingency of possible
GTZ withdrawal. The responsibilities of each financing entity were, for the
most part, discrete and independent, so that no single project component
10. Even today, not all projects are required to contain such components.
1 1. ibid.



depended upon the participation of both entities. However, for certain
issues, the effect of a possible GTZ departure from the Bank-financed project
was not adequately addressed, including: (a) credit access of smaller farmers
in the northern area; (b) potential competition between the two projects,
particularly in credit; and (c) the research and extension components, which
were especially hard-hit by GTZ withdrawal.
22.   Lack of counterpart funding was a formidable impediment to project
implementation. Through its earlier experiences in Paraguay, the Bank was
aware of the Government's long-standing, conservative, fiscal policies, which
established the budget to fit within expected revenues and reduced
expenditures when revenues fell short of expectations."2 These policies had
prompted erratic public support for other Bank-financed RDPs. In light of
the Government's spending practices, a scaled-down project with a higher
percentage of Bank financing and less reliance upon counterpart funds would
have been more appropriate.'3
23.   Given the project's objectives of reaching small farmers and
encouraging producer groups, the BNF was not ideally suited as a financial
intermediary. The importance BNF placed upon land title as collateral and
the restricted number of land titles among small farmers in the project area
limited the number of small farmers eligible for credit."4 The decision to
use BNF was based on the fact that it was considered financially sound
compared to the alternative entities, and was an institution with which the
Bank had previously worked.
24.   CAH, on the other hand, with its mandate to lend to small farmers,
especially those without land title, and to work through farmers' groups, was
clearly more compatible with the project's objectives. But a review of the
institution revealed that CAH, in addition to an extremely limited resource
base, had, at that time, a reputation for poor management and political
manipulation. 15
25.   Once the decision was taken to work through BNF, specific attention
should have been given to improving its capacity to deal with small farmers
12. Letter, May 28,1986
13. In early 1988, tight financial circumstances prompted ONCAP's request to increase the
percentage of Bank financing under the project. In December 1989, Bank financing
percentages for the credit and road components mere increased and adjusted (retroactive to
June 1989) to match those of its sister project, Caaapa RDP (2047-PA).
14. Supervision Report, October 5, 1984
15. Paraguay: Natural Resource Management Project SAR, March 1993. Since then, CAH
has significantly improved its financial management, to the extent that the Bank, in a
proposed new lending operation, envisages CAH implementing a pilot line of credit for small
farmers, (see parm. 73).



- 8 -
in the project area, including technical assistance, measures to reduce the
costs of lending to this clientele, and more flexible collateral requirements.
26.   The definitions of targeted beneficiaries of the credit component, as
stated in the Loan Agreement and the SAR, were inconsistent and caused
some confusion concerning eligible beneficiaries during project
implementation (see para.41 and 55-58). From a legal and practical
standpoint, the Loan Agreement takes precedence over the SAR, which
cannot be used to limit the application of the Loan Agreement. Article l(s)
of the Loan Agreement states that a beneficiary is a "small-scale farmer"
whose "main source of income derives from agriculture." Sub-article (q) of
the same Article defines small-scale farmers as those operating small-scale
farms. And, finally, sub-article (p), defines a small-scale farm as "a farm
having up to 30 hectares of suitable cropping land." However, the definition
applied and the terminology used in the SAR differs slightly when it is stated
that:
.Credit would be provided by the BNF to some 2,500 farmers over a
period of four years. Of these farmers, 30% would possess small-
scale farms of around 10 ha; 60%, medium-sized farms of around 20
ha.; and 10% larger farms of around 40 ha."
In the Loan Agreement, credit is available for small-scale farms which are
defined according to the area of suitable cropping land (less than 30 ha.). In
the SAR, however, loans are available for small, medium and larger scale
farms, classified in terms of total farm area. The proper way to resolve this
matter should have been to amend formally the Loan Agreement.
27.   The significance of land titling was overlooked during project design.
Background studies of the project area, available at preparation, indicated
that only 8.4% of small farmers had titles, and lack of title was the single
most important constraint farmers faced when seeking institutional credit."6
In view of the significance of land titles to the credit component and the
obvious weaknesses of the IBR, the limited resources allocated to this
component, only 3.5% of project base cost, contributed to its faulty
implementation and had negative repercussions upon the credit component.
28.   Another more practical design flaw was over-staffing the extension
service relative to the available equipment and vehicles. In retrospect, a
leaner personnel roster, better equipped, would have been more effective than
a larger, but undercapitalized, staff. Also, road designs were inappropriate
for local conditions. It was observed that the design of some roads was too
elaborate in terms of local trafflc and resources to maintain them.'7
16. Servicios Integdal de Consultorfa, Tercer Povecto de Desarrollo Rural-Eie Norte,
Informe Final, Vol. II, Annex 3, pg.15, March 1981.
17. Note to the File, May 23, 1988 and Memo, November 4, 1988



- 9 -
29.   Efforts were made to incorporate lessons learned from previous
RDP's into the design of the Eje Norte Project. In light of past
administrative difficulties, it was considered imperative that project
management and administration be the responsibility of a single, high-level
and credible institution. It was anticipated that such an entity would be able
to facilitate the participation of the project's various executive agencies.
30.   The administrative unit chosen was relatively high-profile, being the
permanent secretariat of a ministerial level body. However, the performance
of the unit was handicapped by its lack of control over project funds and the
executive agencies, although it did a very good job under difficult
circumstances. In this respect, the establishment of a line item in the
national budget for project funding would have been prudent. Instead,
allocations for the project were contained in the individual budgets of each
executive agency (as is commonly the case). This budgetary convention
contributed to the uncertainty conceming counterpart funding.
Project Risks
31.   Project risks, as described in the SAR, accurately identified some of
the factors which could diminish the project's effectiveness, including
weaknesses in project management and delays in road construction and title
issuance. However, the measures taken to avoid their effects were deficient,
as they did not address their underlying cause - the absence of Government
commitment to the project. Other factors which could (and did) diminish the
project's success should have been mentioned in the SAR. Possible
deviations in actual world prices from Bank projections were not considered.
With most of the project's expected economic benefits deriving from export
revenue, reference in the risk analysis to the variability of world commodity
prices would have been appropriate.
Project Implementation
32.   The impact of the prevailing fiscal and macroeconomic policies on the
success of project implementation was conspicuous in the Eje Norte Project.
Essentially, the major impediments to implementation (with the exception of
land titling) were traceable to the policy environment. Their significance was
revealed in the marked improvement in project implementation after 1987,
when major reforms were introduced in fiscal, trade and exchange rate
policies.
33.   A series of problems beyond the control of the coordinating and
implementing agencies, and the Bank, seriously delayed project execution.
Approved by the Board and signed in May, 1982, this loan was not declared
effective until February 1983. Budgetary allocations were not provided by
the Government until 1985. In June 1985, the Bank suspended disbursements
against withdrawal applications in local currency because of a long-standing
dispute with the Government over the official exchange rate. In August,
1986 the Bank and the Government reached an interim agreement on an



- 10-
appropriate exchange rate until December 31, 1987. Normal disbursements
resumed in March, 1987, following further agreement with the Government
regarding the exchange rate.'" In January, 1988, the Bank decided to
reduce the percentage reimbursable under the loan to compensate for what
was considered to be an overvaluation of the Guarani.
34.   Thereafter, project implementation improved significantly. The
project Closing Date was extended three times, with the final date established
for December 31, 1991. A four-month grace period was granted for the
presentation of disbursements of up to US$2 million. The last disbursement
was made on May 26, 1992.'9
35.   IBR's failure to comply with the conditions set forth in the Project
Agreement held up loan effectiveness. As GTZ had a significant presence in
the proposed project area, the Bank proposed
co-financing with them.20 The Bank became involved in GTZ's problems
with IBR over the slow pace of titling in the GTZ-assisted settlements. IBR
was obligated to issue 750 titles in these colonies, as a condition of
effectiveness. Despite the fact that GTZ withdrew from the project prior to
the signing of the Loan Agreement, the titling conditionality was preserved
and contributed to the delay in project implementation.
36.   Roads: The road component (45.9% of base costs), was considered
central to the development of the project area; benefits of other components
would materialize after road construction and upgrading were well underway.
Repeating the experience with all infrastructure components of rural
development projects in Paraguay at that time, implementation of the road
component suffered serious delays. Restrictive fiscal policies led to a
scarcity of counterpart funds and an official 2 1/2 year moratorium on road
construction.
37.   By early 1987, when, according to the SAR, road construction was
scheduled to have been completed, not one road had been built.2'
Beginning in 1987, after the exchange rate agreement and with the
resumption of disbursements, counterpart funds were forthcoming and
implementation was swift. Between 1987 and 1988, 375 km, more than half
of the SAR target, were constructed.
38.   Road construction was under force account and, with few exceptions,
was handled well. However, ambiguities developed over reimbursable costs,
18. Letter, August 27, 1989.
19. US$2.86 million of the loan was cancelled in May 26, 1992 (in addition to the US$ 1
million cancelled for the tobacco re-drying plant in 1986).
20. German foreign assistance in the project area included credit, cooperative strengthening
and research and extension.
21. Implementation Study, August 4, 1986



- 11 -
in particular of personnel. In late 1990, the Bank's Disbursement Division
asserted that payments claimed for salaries of MOPC staff under Category 2
civil works were not allowable. Bank supervision staff (correctly interpreting
the Bank's procurement guidelines) considered reimbursement for certain
salaries legitimate force account expenditures, but to avoid further discussion,
the MOPC decided unilaterally to discontinue the practice.
39.    Credit: The credit component absorbed 29.2%  of the loan.
Implementation was impeded by farmers' lack of land titles.' Farmers
were reluctant to acquire titles because the procedure was both protracted and
costly. In addition, many of the farmers with titles were precluded from
participating in this project as they were already borrowing from other
externally-funded credit programs (GTZ-financed).
40.    Market conditions and incentive structures during the early phase of
the project depressed demand for credit for agricultural investments. In the
late eighties, reforms in export tax and exchange rate policies increased
incentives to export agricultural commodities, and adjustments in BNF sub-
project lending practices stimulated demand. Cumulative disbursements
up to June 30, 1988 were only $0.6 million, while disbursements in FY89
alone, were $US 2.7 million.
41.    In 1988, the project's administrative unit began to interpret broadly
the component's beneficiary group to include ranchers who had up to 400
ha, but who cultivated less than 30 ha., and local agro-industrial
enterprises.24 5 A former BNF official confirmed that this interpretation
was applied.26 This expansion of the beneficiary group did not contradict
the wording of the Loan Agreement, but in practice diverged sharply from
the spirit of the project which was to assist small farmers. Such an
interpretation, in a project area where 95% of the farms are under 30 ha.,
was aimed at increasing disbursements rather than small farmers' access to
credit. The Loan Agreement should have been formally amended at that time
to reflect precisely which farmers were the beneficiary group, in practice.
22. Supervision Report, June 30, 1989: All the files of sub-borrowers reviewed contained
certificates of ownership of land title as collateral and, in many cases, certificates of
ownership of livestock for security.
23. Supervision of Credit Component, June 26, 1992
24. Aide Memoire, February 10, 1988. Under this interpretation, would a rancher with 400
ha. but cultivating less than 10 ha. be classified as a small fiarmer with less than 10 ha.?
25.    The Borrower's letter of July 2, 1993 states that this reinterpretation was formulated
in consultation with the Bank. Further, to mitigate this situation, the project executing unit
(ONCAP) took steps to promote and consolidate small farmer organizations.
26. February 24, 1993, telephone conversation with Paraguayan official responsible for the
loan component of the Project and in Memo, June 30, 1989.



- 12 -
42.   Section 2.08(a) of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Bank
and the BNF stipulated that the funds would be lent at positive effective
rates. These rates would be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted with
respect to the changes in the average cost-of-living index of the previous
twelve months. The intention was to ensure that credit was used for
economically sound agricultural investments and to protect the BNF's equity.
However, throughout implementation, these reviews were irregular and
adjustments were insufficient to maintain positive rates.
42.   Compliance by the BNF, however, became increasingly difficult in
light of the statutory ceiling on lending rates of 12% (yielding an effective
rate of 18%) and the rapid increase in the rate of inflation, which by the end
of 1984 reached 29.2%. It was not until December 1988 that the BNF was
permitted by the Central Bank to adjust its active interest rates to levels close
to positive in real terms, and to apply variable interest rates to all sub-loans
outstanding. Thble 9 in Part III shows that rates were positive for only a
short period of project implementation.
43.   lb the extent that all the funds were disbursed, the BNF's
implementation performance was satisfactory. However, sub-project
appraisal and supervision standards were reportedly poor, being confined to
limited contact at the time of preparation of the investment plan.2
44.   Land Titlina: Bank assistance in this component, aimed at achieving
the SAR goal of 3,500 titles in the project area, largely consisted of financing
personnel costs and the belated construction of a local office. A relatively
small portion was allocated to an innovative approach to redesign and
improve IBR's defective title issuance procedures. This activity warranted
greater support from the project.
45.   Extension and Research: Under the extension component, SEAG
extension agents advised farmers on farm practices, as well as on formulating
work plans for sub-loan applications. Given the limited resources available
to the regional extension office, the implementation of this component was
satisfactory. Some criticism was expressed that the arrangement between the
extension service and the BNF detracted from the service's primary
responsibilities of instructing farmers on modern cultivation techniques.28
Further, agents' effectiveness was hampered by inadequate transport. It was
observed that it was easier to buy a new vehicle with Bank finance than to
repair one.29 For remote areas, the importance of providing for vehicle and
equipment repair, including the construction of a workshop, was highlighted.
27. Supervision Report of the Credit Component, April 18, 1992.
28. Infbrme de Cierre del Provecto Eje Norte, December 1992
29. Supervision Report, October 31, 1991



- 13 -
46.   The research component faltered, as the possibility of GrZ
withdrawal was never fully accounted for in project design (see para 21) and
its consequences were not foreseen. After 1988 however, ONCAP sought
and obtained budget resources for setting up an experimental plot and
initiating research into traditional and non-traditional crops, the results of
which wuld be transferred to farmers in the project area.30
47.   Other Components: The health component lacked Government
support. The Ministry of Public Health (MSP&BS) received its first
budgetary allocation for the project in June 1988, five years after loan
effectiveness.3" Financial constraints provoked a subsequent Government
moratorium on all activities under the project's health component. Despite
serious delays, the health centers and posts were eventually constructed and
their services, in sites visited in November 1992, were in great demand.
Only some 75% of the latrines envisaged in the SAR were delivered.
48.   ONCAP's decision to hire consultants of the Instituto Inter-Americano
de Cooperaci6n Agricola (IICA) to foster cooperative development in the
project area had satisfactory results. To increase rural employment,
ONCAP/IICA effectively promoted small businesses within cooperatives.
Earlier Bank actions in this area were complicated by a political climate
highly suspicious of efforts to strengthen cooperatives.
49.   Funds for the burley re-drying plant were cancelled December 1986.
Tbchnical assistance provided to the MAG's Department of Planning and
facilitated by ONCAP, was high calibre, timely and valuable to the work of
the ministry. The training component was adequately carried out.
50.   Project Administration: Despite the efforts in project design to
ensure against it, project administration encountered difficulties.32 Until
1987, the project's implementing agency, ONCP, depended upon CNFPA, a
small ministerial-level body without specific functions and authority. ONCP
had no control over project funds and no authority over the executive
agencies." Agreements between ONCP and those agencies did not serve to
define their relationships to the project (a project design issue). From mid
1987, the project administrating assumed greater executive functions,
including the contracting of works and services.
51.   Project administration was transferred to ONCAP (Oficina Nacional
de Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n de Proyectos), an entity created in 1987 to
coordinate and oversee all extemally funded agricultural projects. While
30.   Borrower's comments on Part I, letter of July 2, 1993.
31. Supervision Report, June 7, 1988
32.   The Borrowr attributes early implementation difficulties to lack of clarity in project
design concerning project administration.
33. Telex, April 10, 1986



- 14 -
ONCAP's administrative capabilities were greater than ONCP, its authority
and consequently project implementation, continued to be handicapped by
lack of control over project finance and executive agencies. Nevertheless,
inter-institutional coordination, relations with the Bank and project
administration improved with this change.3 Notwithstanding the structural
defects of the administrative arrangements, ONCAP's accounting records
(especially the use of funds and flow of disbursements), reflected a thorough
control of the project's financial operations."
Project Results
52.   After three extensions of the Closing Date totalling almost five years,
the road, credit and land titling components achieved, or surpassed, their
SAR physical goals. New roads played an important role in the consolidation
of a zone of economic development, demonstrated by the dramatic increase in
agricultural production and commercial activity. It is estimated that
cultivated area increased from 2,000 ha to over 21,000 ha, principally
planted to cotton, and that cotton yields doubled.' Truck transport became
accessible to farmers, who previously had relied upon ox-cart and canoes to
move their crops. The emergence of bus service, retail outlets and small
hotels was further indication of economic growth in the area.37
53.   In addition, in 1989, the annual increase in the cotton farm-gate price
in the project area exceeded 50%, compared to a relatively moderate annual
increase in the international price.8 This differential reflects not only the
effects of macroeconomic policy reforms, but also the increase in local
competition from greater market access attributable to the improved local
road network. Better farmgate prices, along with larger marketable
surpluses, increased farm income.
54.   The credit component exceeded its SAR target of 2,500 beneficiaries
by 50%, reaching 3,796 farmers. Nevertheless, the program was arguably,
not sufficiently targeted. While the data concerning
sub-loan beneficiaries were not available at the time of PCR preparation,
ample evidence suggests that, contrary to the project intention, many larger
farmers, some perhaps residing outside the project area, received project
34. In mid-1989, ONCAP was transferred from MAG to the Consejo de Desarrollo Rural.
This transfer was never officially recognized by the Bank. During this period, project
administration was severely hampered. In mid-1990, the Consejo was dissolved and ONCAP
returned to MAG.
35. Disbursement Mission Report, October 31, 1990
36. Supervision Report, June 1989.
37. Supervision Report, June 21, 1989
38. Supervision Report to the Credit Component, June 1989.



- 15 -
credit.3" Even the number of beneficiaries may be misleading; it is
questionable whether all the sub-loans were made to different farmers or
were repeater sub-loans.40 A Supervision Report in June 1989 concluded
that, of the credit beneficiaries interviewed, all were small farmers (less than
20 ha.). However, the report conceded that the sample size, 12 farmers out
of nearly 3,000 (less than .04%), was entirely too small to draw any
conclusions. Further, the same report noted that time constraints did not
permit an analysis of the increasing number of beneficiaries with more than
50 ha.4"
55.   The crops financed suggest that the more liberal interpretation of the
eligible beneficiaries did increase disbursements, but that larger farmers were
the major beneficiaries. BNF data show that more than 40% of the sub-loans
extended financed soybeans and wheat, crops typically grown by large
farmers.42 This distribution is notable because, at the beginning of the
project, less than 2% of the cultivated land in the project area was planted to
soybeans, (see Part IHI, 'Thble 10).43 Another indication that loans were not
being extended exclusively to small-holders is the 1989 beneficiary loan
ceiling set by ONCAP of US$35,000." This sum is entirely
disproportionate to the financial conditions of most small farmers."5
56.   The distribution, as anticipated in the SAR, between short and
medium term finance was very nearly accomplished. In the SAR, 62% of
the credit funds were to finance medium-term investment loans and 38%
short-term working capital. (These limitations were indicative only, and
were not required in the Loan Agreement). Under the loan, 52% went to
medium- and 48% to short-term sub-loans. However, it appears that
increased credit availability did not, as initially presumed, by itself encourage
small farmers to adopt new farming practices. Rather, as traditional farming
39. Supervision Report, October 1991.
40. Informe de Cierre del Provecto Eie Norte Oficina Nacional de Coordinaci6n y
Administaci6n de Proyectos, Dec. 1992
41. Supervision Report, June 30, 1989. This report covered both the Eje Norte (2141-PA)
and the Caazapa (2047-PA) projects.
42. Report on Credit Component, June 26, 1992
43. Servicios Integral de Consultorfa, Tercer Prvecto de Desarrollo Inteeral-Eie Norte.
Inifrme Final, Anexo 3, pg. 6, March 1981. These figures reflect cropping patterns in
1981. Although the infbrmation is not available, it is likely that, while the area cultivated to
soybeans and wheat may have ecpanded slightly, its share relative to total cultivated area
probably declined due to the significant increase in the area planted to cotton during the
project implementation.
44. Aide Memoire, February 10, 1988
45. According to a 1991 IFAD/CPES Survey in San Pedro (the department in which Eje
Norte is located), the per capita income was approximately US$500.



- 16 -
practices were highly labor intensive, up to 75 % of the short-term working
capital financed labor costs. Of the medium-term capital, almost half
financed land-clearing, a consequence of project appraisal not building
environmental safeguards into the project in general, or the credit component
in particular.
57.   Improved title registration, as well as accelerated title issuance, are
identifiable project accomplishments. The 4,500 titles issued exceeded the
SAR target by over 28%. The project's efforts to simplify and computerize
the operations of the IBR were extremely useful. Unfortunately, resources
allocated to this program were limited. As a result of pressure exerted
through this project, the IBR initiated a system ensuring proper title
registration in the Registro Nacional.
58.   Despite the sizeable presence of indigenous communities in the project
area (at least six identifiable groups), the project did not include land titling
or technical assistance components for them. Following a survey of the
Indian communities in 1981, the Bank determined that its intervention was
unjustified, given that these groups were relatively acculturated and receiving
assistance from other sources.' Subsequently, in 1987, with the evolution
of the Bank's views concerning indigenous populations, the possibility of
amending an indigenous component to the project was discussed, but never
pursued. However, ONCAP, under the auspices of a special commission
developed a small technical and social assistance program for the indigenous
in the project area."7 With regard to women in the project area, no specific
impact is discernable. Aside from the inclusion of additional home
economists in the local extension office, the project did not address gender
issues.
59.   As a result of appraisal not taking into account the Bank's natural
resource conservation strategy, the project undoubtedly had adverse
environmental effects since half of the project medium-term credit financed
land-clearing and deforestation."
60.   Recalculated Economic Rate of Return: The recalculated economic
rate of return (ERR) fell to 7%, compared to 18.6% in the SAR. The ERR
was recalculated by estimating the internal rate of return of the net stream of
benefits for 25 years (instead of the 20 years in the SAR), to allow for
delayed execution. Historical, instead of projected, world commodity prices
were applied to estimated production, (see Part III, Table 11). The major
economic benefits were derived from the large increase in cotton area and
46. Back to Office Report, October 17, 1981.
47.   Borrower's comments, July 2, 1993. The special commission comprised ONCAP,
the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR), and the National Institute of Indigenous Development
(INDI).
48.   The Borrower claims that consultations were initiated on soil use planning, based on
studies of river basins and micro-regions (portions of river basins).



- 17 -
yields. These economic gains were offset by three factors: (a) unfavorable
developments in world market prices for cotton and other commodities; (b)
dramatic decline in tobacco production in the area; and (c) attenuated
implementation, which significantly delayed the stream of net benefits.
61.   World prices did not increase as expected. Average real prices for
principal export commodities fell by 50%, instead of increasing by 33%
between 1981 and 1990, as projected (see Part III, Table 11). Market
developments influenced producers' planting decisions. Instead of the burley
tobacco area of 300 ha. at the beginning of the project, expanding to 2,860
ha., as forecast in the SAR, the actual cultivated area declined to 35 ha. by
closing. Nearly 70% of the estimated gains in the SAR's ERR analysis was
to have been derived from projected increases in the value and volume of
local tobacco production. Delayed project implementation (almost five years
longer than planned) retarded the benefit stream which depended upon greater
market access brought about by improvements in the local road network.
Sustainability
62.   The economic benefits of road construction and upgrading will
continue as long as the Government provides sufficient funds to maintain
them. Actions under the project to promote the formation of farmer
organizations anticipated that road maintenance would be one of their
principal activities.49 It is unlikely that the credit component will be
sustained, as the BNF had, reportedly, already reduced its presence in the
project area.50 The credit program might have been sustainable had
technical and other assistance been provided to the BNF to increase its
capabilities and reduce its costs of lending to small farmers. Further, greater
efforts could have been made to promote the formation of lender groups.
Institutional Performance
63.   Bank: The Bank faced a daunting situation trying to implement this
project. Given the troublesome political and economic environment in
Paraguay, the Bank often needed to make difficult decisions regarding the
appropriate degree of pressure and flexibility necessary to ensure the
project's progress. After March 1987, coincident with the changeover to
ONCAP, the quality of supervision improved markedly, producing
significant progress. The Bank began to convey its expectations, conditions,
and the consequences of non-compliance more forcefully. The Bank also
became more flexible, particularly with respect to the reallocation of funds.
Project monitoring became more systematic and comprehensive.
64.   The Bank was perhaps unnecessarily rigid in two major decisions
related to implementation. The 1984 decision not to reallocate project funds
49.   Borrower comments, July 2, 1993.
50. Working Notes to Supervision Report, July 29,1991



- 18 -
to speed up disbursements was probably unwise,5" and may have resulted
from insufficient understanding of the fiscal restrictions confronting the
Government. Amendments to reduce the credit component (with
compensation from the Agricultural Credit Project 2340-PA) and increase
Bank finance for the road component, would have increased disbursements.
On the other hand, the Bank may have been waiting for a resolution of the
exchange rate dispute before attempting to increase the rate of disbursements.
65.   The second decision concerned the project Closing Date. Project staff
argued that an exception to the eight year-rule was justifiable given the three
year suspension of disbursements. The extension was denied and a
cumbersome arrangement was devised whereby outstanding priority
investments would be financed under other RDP's.52
66.   Borrower: Prior to 1987, the Govemment's uncooperative attitude
towards the Bank foiled project implementation. Vlrtually no efforts were
made to accommodate the Bank or the needs of the project. In 1987, the
situation improved, with compromises regarding the exchange rate, increased
counterpart funding allocation, and the restructuring of project
administration. Progress was also aided by the change of government in
1989. The new administration brought with it a degree of skill,
professionalism and commitment to development unparalleled in Paraguay's
recent history.
67.   Perfornance of BNF: BNF's financial performance from 1983 to
1991 was poor, due mainly to erratic Government economic policies. Its
profitability was never sufficient to compensate for the erosion of its equity
in real terms. BNF is the Government's financial instrument in support of
industry and agriculture. It has been obliged to channel Central Bank funds
(via short-term rediscounts), and funds from external financing, into cheap
short- and long-term credit for both sectors. Low spreads have barely
covered high operating costs. BNF was unable to charge market rates of
interest. A large portion of its own resources obtained from deposits, were
retained by the Central Bank as legal reserve (up to 37%) without
remuneration. It was obliged to bear the foreign exchange risk on some
externally-financed credit lines, on-lent in local currency. Finally, low
salaries prevented BNF from attracting and keeping qualified staff. Changes
in Government economic policies from 1989, saw improvement in BNF's
financial performance: it was permitted to charge market-determined,
variable interest rates; its dependence on Central Bank funds was reduced;
and its equity was increased by additional Government contributions.
68.   BNF's rate of arrears on its consolidated loan portfolio has
traditionally been high, although noteworthy reductions have occurred (from
22% in 1983, to 16% in 1990, and to 11% in 1991). Until 1991 however,
51. Letter August 8, 1984.
52. Memo, Febniary 1, 1992.



- 19 -
BNF recorded as loans in arrears, the total outstanding amount of the loan,
whenever an installment was due and not paid. Starting from 1991, only
installments due and not paid were recorded as arrears. Interest and late
payment penalties are recorded when payment is received. Provisions for
bad debts are computed on the total amount in arrears, and adjusted to cover
only the portion not shielded by collateral. In BNF's agricultural portfolio,
the mainstay of its activities, the rate of loans in arrears was high in 1983,
but was reduced significantly thereafter, from 18% in 1983 to 7% in 1991.
(See Part I, Tables 10-14 for BNF's lending activities and financial
status/performance) ."
Audits and Covenant Compliance
67.   After the Loan Agreement had been amended to permit Bank funds to
finance an independent auditor, a satisfactory system of audits was
established in early 1989. Earlier audits, prepared by the Ministry of
Finance, were often late and, on a few occasions, qualified.
68.   The Borrower was substantially in compliance with Loan Covenants.
The most important were the maintenance of positive interest rates, issuance
of a specified number of land titles, and the preparation and provision by the
IBR of a land title inventory. As can be seen in Part III, Table 9, serious
efforts were made after 1989 to maintain positive interest rates. The targeted
number of land titles, as specified in the Loan covenants, was surpassed.
According to the covenants, IBR was to have provided by the end of 1984,
an inventory of land titles and property demarcations for all properties in the
project area. In 1991, IBR presented ONCAP with a simple enumeration of
those titles issued in the project area, which did not fully satisfy the terms of
the Loan Agreement.
Findings and Lessons
69.   The Eje Norte Project did encourage economic development in the
project area through improved road infrastructure and credit. Once the
infrastructure improvements were in place, farmers with access to the
relatively attractive project credit, were able to finance on-farm investments
which, combined with the benefits of better roads, increased their net returns.
The impact of the other components, especially land titling, health and
cooperative strengthening, while limited, was positive.
70.   Given the importance of upgrading the road network prior to the
implementation of the other components, the project would have been more
efficient, and project supervision more effective, had the project been divided
into two phases: the first, concentrating on infrastructure and land titling the
second, on agricultural credit and services.
53.   Information on BNFs performance is summarized from consultant report dated
April 18, 1992.



- 20 -
71.   The following lessons of experience emerge from the Eje Norte
Project. More recent agricultural credit and rural infrastructure projects
have, to a considerable extent, already taken these elements into account:
A.    Projet Design: There were several macroeconomic issues
which, had they been addressed at project outset, would have
facilitated implementation: (i) the multiple exchange rate policy; (ii)
Government fiscal spending practices which frequently caused
counterpart funding to be withheld from projects; (iii) the depressing
effect of an overvalued exchange rate and export taxes on agricultural
export activity; and, (iv) financial policies which imposed a ceiling on
interest rates. In short, macroeconomic considerations must be
factored into preparation.
At the design stage, an appreciation of the importance of
seemingly secondary concerns, such as titling, is fundamental.
Similarly, practical factors such as provision for vehicle maintenance,
should not be overlooked; and, road designs need to correspond not
only to local traffic conditions, but also to the available resources to
maintain them.
Projects which recognize the importance of beneficiary
participation in design and implementation are more likely to have
greater socio-economic impact. The beneficiaries should be clearly
and reasonably defined to target benefits and minimize leakages. Size
of landholding, (or even more narrowly as in this project, area owned
of suitable cropping land) is inadequate. In this project, it frequently
precluded poor farmers, while simultaneously encompassing wealthier
ones. Broader criteria are now employed, such as household income
and net return.
B.    Credit: Careful attention is required in the selection of the
appropriate financial institution for credit operations. An assessment
not only of the institutions' financial soundness, but also of their
clientele and lending practices will help determine which best supports
project objectives. Once identified, institutional weaknesses need to
be addressed, and if necessary, measures included to reduce the cost
and risk (real or perceived) associated with lending to certain groups
of beneficiaries.
Transparently-financed measures to reduce lenders' costs can
improve access, e.g., compensatory capital transfers, technical
assistance, branch offices, record-keeping equipment, and vehicles.
In addition, institutions which deal effectively with small farmers but
are weak financial intermediaries (e.g., CAH), can be strengthened
through greater financial discipline up-front, better subloan evaluation
and portfolio management. The credit-worthiness of the small farmer
can be enhanced through risk-sharing groups, serious policies
governing arrears and the building of credit histories.



- 21 -
The longer-term objective of Bank credit components
administered by public institutions should be, to the extent possible,
the formation of a cadre of small farmers which, having established
credit histories, can "graduate" into the commercial credit market,
paving the way for a more conventional relationship between this
market and the small farm subsector. The Bank is moving in this
direction: in the LAC region, the Small Farmer Services Project in
Chile (Ln. 3473-CH) is a good example of this idea, along with small
farmer credit aspects of the proposed Natural Resource Management
Project in Paraguay.
If it becomes apparent that project targeting is faulty and
leakages are occurring to unintended beneficiaries, instead of re-
defining the beneficiaries (as was done in this project), constraints to
access should be addressed through modifications in the Loan
Agreement, the practices of the financial institution and executive
agencies, and/or prevailing policies.
To assure that sub-loans are used to finance economically
sound investments, greater attention is needed in design and
supervision, to safeguard positive interest rates.
C.    Project Administration: Units for project administration
require adequate control over project funds and executing agencies;
and the relationship between the project unit and the executing
agencies should be clearly-defined and agreed to by all parties
(including the Bank). Uncertainty concerning the availability of
counterpart funding may be reduced by having a separate line item for
it in the national budget (although there is no substitute for
government commitment to the project).



- 22 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
STE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2141-PA)
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LiVESTOCK (MAG)
NATIONAL OFFICE FOR COORDINATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF PROJECTS
Asuncion, July 2, 1993
Page iv - Para. 11 - Lines 2 and 3.
Says        "Technical assistance by BNF to farmers was weak."
Should say 'Technical assistance by BNF to farmers initially was limited. During
the preparation of the investment plan and to overcome such limitation,
technical assistance was complemented by SEAG through PAC
(especially created for this purpose). PAC's management gove
satisfactory results."
Page v - Para. 14 - Line 3
Add         "To mantain said roads, the project helped to create community
association which, among other tasks, will maintain the roads."
PART I - Page 15 - Para. 41 - Line 2
Says        "...widely interpret..."
Should say ".... widely interpret, in consultation with the World Bank..."
End Para. 41
Add         "To overcome such situation, however, project management has oriented
action to promote and consolidate the associations of small-scall
farmers."
Page 16 - Para. 46
Substitute with the following:
"The research component had poor management between 1984 and 1988.
This was possibly due to the departure of the specialists (see para. 21).
Afterwards, ONCAP required the carrying out of research for traditional



- 23 -
and non-traditional lines of activity, and to transfer the results to
farmers. This requirement was well financed and an experimental
station was constructed. Such station was consolidated and inagurated as
a modem facility, taking into account the research lines."
Page 17 - Para. 47 - Line 10
Says       "only one-fourth of the letrines...."
Should say  "only about 75 percent of the letrines...."
Para. 49
Should begin as follows:
"A satisfactory decision taken by project management in developing
cooperatives was the use of consultants hired through IICA."
Line 4
Says       "To increase rural employment, IICA promoted..."
Should say  'To increase rural employment, ONCAP-IICA promoted..."
Line 5
Says       "The Bank's efforts in this regard..."
Should say  "Previously, the Bank's efforts in this regard..."
Page 17 - Para. 49 - Line 4
Says        "The technical assistance given to the Planning Department of MAG was
of the highest caliber."
Should say  "Project management was decisive and facilitated that the technical
assistance given to the Planning Department of MAG was highly
qualified and timely for the work of the Ministry. Likewise, also the
training component was carry out adequately. In the last fase of the
project, through ONCAP, the Planning Department of MAG was
strengthen, and consultants were utilized to design the management
project for natural resources and development of the areas of "Alto
Parana" and "Itapua Norte", with the help of FAO-CP. This project is
under negotiations with the Bank."
Page 17 - Para. 50 - Lines 1 - 3.
Should say  "Proiect Management: Since the project management originally was not
too clear, there were initial difficulties. Until 1987 the coordinator of
the project, ONCP, depended from CFPAN, a small organization at the
ministerial level without especific function nor autority. ONCP had no
control over the funds of the project and had no authority on executing
agencies. The agreements between ONCP and implementing agencies
never took place. Beginning in April 1987, the coordinating office took



- 24 -
the implementation and contracting. (Example: Identification of
productive lines, tecnical and social assistance to indigenous
communities)."
Page 18 - Para. 52 - Line 1
Says       "The project administration improved in April 1987...."
Should say "The project administration improved a great deal beginning april
1987..."
Page 21 - Para. 60 - Line 11
Says        "Later, to the measure that the points of view that the Bank were being
developed in 1987 regarding indigenous populations, we study the
possibility of adding a component to this respect, but this never took
place."
After the above point add:
"However, ONCAP within the frame work INDI-IBR-ONCAP has
offered a small program of social and technical assistance. The project
did not.....
Page 21 - Para. 61
Says       "It is probable that the project had some adverse effects on the
environment, since half of the medium-term credit financed
diforestation.. "
Add         "Nevertheless, consulting has been tried to plan the use of the soil in
reference to studies basins."
Page 22 - Para. 64 - Line 1
Says        "The economic benefits of the construction and improvements of feeder
roads will continue as long as government supplies the suficient funds to
maintain the feeder roads."
Add         "Nevertheless, to help the maintenance to said roads, the project has
promoted community organizations, among whose actions are the carryin
out such activities."
Page 23 - Para. 65 - Line 6
Says        "After March 1987, the quality of supervision was highly improved and
resulted in substantially increases in the project's implementation."
Add         "In conjuction with the creation of ONCAP."



- 25 -
Page 26 - Para. 70 - Line 12
Says       "In this project the credit implementation and the service components
could not proceed until other components were well advanced, i.e. roads
and infrastructure."
Add next   "Training.'
(Signature)
CARLOS ORTIZ PIERPAOLI
Director



- 26 -
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
ETE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
(Loan 2141-PA)
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans l/
Loan                         Year
Number        Purpose       Approved      Status               Comments
2087-PA    Caazapa Area         1982     Ongoing    US$31.0 million.
Development                              Major implementation problems,
especially road construction.
3445-PA    Land Use             1992     Not yet    US$29.0 million.
Rationalization              effective    Preparation of technical basis for
agro-ecological zoning, and
accompanying legal and policy
measures, already completed,
with Japanese PHRD grant.
[/                      Since 1975, the Bank has undertaken seven operations in the
agricultural sector. The most recent are the above-listed. Although
an agricultural development project for the Departments of Alto
Paran and Itapda was prepared (with Bank and FAO/CP Assistance)
in the mid-1980s, it was not appraised by the Bank because of major
disagreements with the Government's macroeconomic policies, mainly
the multiple-exchange rate policy then in force.



- 27 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Item            Date Planned        Revised Date           Actual
Identification                                             August, 1978
Preparation                                                January, 1978
Appraisal                                                  September, 1981
Loan Negotiation                                           April, 1982
Board Approval                                             March 23, 1982
Signature                                                  May 26, 1982
Effectiveness       August, 1982                           February, 1983
Project Completion   June 30, 1987                         December 31, 1991
Loan Closing        December 31, 1987   December 31, 1988   December 31, 1991
December 31, 1989
December 31, 1991
Table 3. Loan Disbursement l/
Appraisal                            Actual as % of
Fiscal Year          Estimate             Actual             Estimate
1982
1983                 1.7                 .33                19.4
1984                 5.5                 .44                8.0
1985                11.1                 .93                8.4
1986                17.1                 2.04               12.0
1987               21.5                  5.20              24.2
1988               22.4                  6.40              28.6
1989                                    10.57              47.2
1990                                    11.86              53.0
1991                                    14.98              67.0
1992                                    18.53               83.0
1993
I/ Cumulative
Source: IBRD Statement of Loans



- 28 -
Table 4. Project Implementation
SAR
Indicators                 Units        Estimate       Actual1'
Total Project Cost                    US$M               40.9           38.2
Loan Disbursement                     US$M               22.4           18.5
A. Rural Roads
All-weather upgrade                 km               14         50%2/
Construction and upgrade,
feeder roads                      km              700          70531
B. Credit (BNF)
Beneficiaries                      No.           2,500          3,531
Investment Subloans               US$M               10.9           11.3
Area Developed                      ha          48,000      4/92,088
C. Extension Services (SEAG)
Beneficiaries                      No.           3,500          3,500
Extension Agents                   No.               10             18
Offices                            No.                1             2
D. Land Titling (IBR)
Titles Delivered                   No.           3,500          4,500
Offices                            No.                2             2
E. Research
Research Center Building           No.                1              1
Staff                              No.                3             3
F. Health (MSPyBS)
Health Center (Chore)              No.                1            1
Health Posts                       No.               16           1661
Latrine Platforms                  No.           6,600         1,7502'
Additional Staff                   No.              54              14
i/  Last supervision report in which indicators included.
2/  Platform completed but not surfaced to all-weather standard.
3/  705 km earthworks completed 94%; small structures (bridges, retaining walls and culverts)
completed 70-80%.
4/  As of April 18, 1992.
5/  60% completed.
6/  5 operational, 3 constructed and 8 with construction 75% completed.
7/  1,750 available, and 4,000 still to be purchased.



- 29 -
Table 5. Project Cost and Financinsg
A. Project Costs
(US$)
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Category           Bank       Borrower      Total        Bank        Borrower      Total
1. (a) Credit (Part A)  6,000,000    4,909,090   10,909,090    7,057,774    7,496,834   14,334,610
(b) Vehicles,           200,000     200,000      400,000      331,100      217,675      548,775
equipment and
materials
(Part A2)
2. Civil works           9,168,966    6,112,640   15,281,606   4,849,406    2,865,437    7,714,843
3. Vehicles, road        3,900,000      -         3,900,000    3,462,505       -        3,462,505
construction and
maintenance
equipment (Part D)
4. Equipment, supplies     100,000     100,000     200,000       231,376      144,126     375,502
and furniture
5. Consultants           1,600,000      -         1,600,000    2,096,396      513,200    2,609,396
(Part D and others)
6. Training                100,000      -           100,000      172,336       15,661     187,997
7. Tobacco plant         1,000,000    2,400,000    3,400,000     - 1-
(Part G) excluding
acquisition of land
8. Front-end fee          331,034       -          331,034       331,034       -          331,034
9. Costs of                 -        4,778,270    4,778,270       -         8,439,581    8,439,581
administration and
operation
TOTAL                22,400,000   18,500,000   40,900,000    18,531,928   19,692,518   38,224,445
I/ Component cancelled
Source: Loan Agreement, loan disbursement record, and Borrower (ONCAP).
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                            Actual
Source       Local      Foreign      Total            Local      Foreign      Total
IBRD               -         22.4        22.4               -          18.53      18.53
Government        10.2         1.6       11.8              11.98        -         11.98
BNF               5.5          -          5.5               7.71        -          7.71
Beneficiaries      1.2         -          1.2               2.60        -          2.68
TOTAL          16.9         4.0        40.9             22.37       18.53       40.90
Source: Loan Agreement and Borrower (ONCAP)



- 30 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
No additional data is available beyond basic indicators shown in Table 4.
B. Economic Impact
1.    Recalculated Economic Rate or Return: The recalculated economic
rate of return (ERR) fell to 7%, compared to 18.6% in the SAR. The ERR
was recalculated by estimating the internal rate of return of the net stream of
benefits for 25 years (instead of the 20 years in the SAR), to allow for
delayed execution. Historical, instead of projected, world commodity prices
were applied to estimated production, (see Table 6.B(i)). The major
economic benefits were derived from the large increase in cotton area and
yields. These economic gains were offset by three factors: (a) unfavorable
developments in world market prices for cotton and other commodities; (b)
dramatic decline in tobacco production in the area; and (c) attenuated
implementation, which significantly delayed the stream of net benefits.
2.    World prices did not increase as expected. Average real prices for
principal export commodities fell by 50%, instead of increasing by 33%
between 1981 and 1990, as projected (see Table 6.B(ii)). Market
developments influenced producers' planting decisions. Instead of the burley
tobacco area of 300 ha. at the beginning of the project, expanding to 2,860
ha., as forecast in the SAR, the actual cultivated area declined to 35 ha. by
closing. Nearly 70% of the estimated gains in the SAR's ERR analysis was
to have been derived from projected increases in the value and volume of
local tobacco production. Delayed project implementation (almost five years
longer than planned) retarded the benefit stream which depended upon greater
market access brought about by improvements in the local road network.



- 31 -
Table 6.B(i). Eje Norte: Recalculated Economic Rate of Return
(million 1980 guaranis)
Rate of
Year       Costs        Benefits     Net Benefits      Return
1        33.68           0            -33.68
2        18.49           0            -18.49
3        38.9            0            -38.90
4        191.75          0            -191.75
5        66.25          6.89          -59.36
6        90.68          10.96         -79.72
7        75.11          8.16          -66.95
8        61.06         26.55          -34.51
9        56.33         31.02          -25.31
10       30.97          54.12          23.15
11       46.25          76.76          30.51
12       46.25          136.3          9.05
13       46.25         138.34          92.09
14       46.25         91.17           44.92
15       46.25         138.01          91.76
16       57.81         140.76          82.95
17       57.81         140.76          82.95
18       57.81         140.76          82.95
19       57.81         148.20          90.39
20       57.81         148.20          90.39
21       57.81         148.20          90.39
22       57.81         148.20          90.39
23       57.81         148.20          90.39
24       57.81         148.20          90.39
25       57.81         148.20          90.39           7%



- 32 -
Table 6.B(ii).   Comparison or Projected and Actual World Commodity Prices
(1980 Constant US$)
Cotton              Soybeans               Tobacco
cts/kg               $/MT                   $/MT
Year
Proj j/    Act 2'    Proj        Act       Proj        Act
1981       201.3    192.8      304.0      302.3    2145.7       2463.3
1982       192.6    155.3      301.6      237.9    2150.7       2344.4
1985       249.6    103.1      370.9      175.3    2651.0        1525.8
1990       257.3    106.4      439.2      144.3    2727.5        1111.1
% change    +27%       -45%      +45%        -53%      +27%        -54%
I/ Proj (Projected estimates) are Bank price forecasts that were available January
1982.
i/ Act (Actual prices) are historical prices. All prices are in constant US 1980
dollars.
Source: International Economics Division, World Bank.



- 33 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement                         Summarized
Section                             Covenant                      Status
3.01                            GOP shall provide, and cause              SubstantiaL
BNF to provide, promptly, as              compliance; but
needed, the funds, facilities,            counterpart funding
services and other resources              shortages did occur.
required for the project.
3.01 (f)                        MOPC shalt appoint a quaLified            Comptled
engineer to act as roads
coordinator in the Project
Area.
3.01 (g) (i)                    ONCP shall coordinate                     Complied
execution of the project and
maintain at Least one field
coordinator in the Project
Area.
3.01 (g) Cii)                   ONCP shaLl prepare and provide            Complied
to the Bank, not later than
September 30 each year, an
annuaL work plan.
3.01 (h)                        GOP shalt establish a separate            Sub-component
industrial entity to carry out           cancelled,
the burLey tobacco plant                  April 9, 1987.
construction and operation.
3.02                            GOP shall employ qualified                Complied
consultants to assist in
carrying out parts D, F, H and
J of the Project.
3.03 (b)                        IBR shall issue at least 1,000            Complied
land titles to settlers in the
GTZ-assisted colonies prior to
April 30, 1983.
3.03 (c)                        GOP shall cause IBR to issue              Complied
land titles according to the
following schedule: at least
750 in each of the following
years; 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986
and at least 500 titles not
later than June 1987.
3.03 (d) (i)                    IBR shall, not later than Dec.            Complied
31, 1983, establish
decentralized offices in Chore
and San Estanislao.
3.03 (d) (ii)                   ISR shall prepare an inventory            Partial compliance.
of all colonies in the Project            IBR prepared a simple
Area prior to December, 1984.             inventory of titles
already issued.
3.04 (a)                        Construct and upgrade all                 Substantial
roads according to time table             compliance.
and design standards.
3.06                            ONCP shall prepare and submit             Complied
to the Bank semi-annuaL
progress reports.
3.08 (d)                        GOP shall prepare and furnish             Cowplied, with delay.
to the Bank, a project
completion report not later
than six months after closing
date of the loan.



- 34 -
Loan Agreement                         Surmarized
Section                             Covenant                      Status
4.02 (b)                        GOP shall cause alt                       Complied
implementing agencies to
establish and maintain
separate project accounts.
4.03/3.04                       GOP shall have the separate               Complied, with
Project Accounts audited and              deLays.
provide Bank with audit
reports not later than four
months after close of each
fiscal year.
6.01 (a)                        The Subsidiary Loan Agreement             CompLied
has been executed.
6.01 (b)                        GOP through IBR has issued 750            Complied
land titles in the GTZ-
assisted colonies.
6.01 (c)                        GOP has appointed the field               Complied
coordinator.
6.01 (d)/3.11                   ONCP has been established and             Complied.  (ONCP
maintained.                               became ONCAP in 1987
under KAG.)
Schedule 4B.1                   Civil Works shall be procured             CompLied
in accordance with local
bidding procedures and
contracts shall be for at
Least $600,000 each.
Schedule 48.3                   Contracts for the purchase of             Complied
vehicles may be according to
local bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Schedule 48.4                   Civil works under Part 0.3 of             Complied
the Project may be carried out
by MOP by force account.
Schedule 48.5                   Contracts for construction of             Complied
the road maintenance shop and
the ISR offices may be
procured according to local
bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank.



- 35 -
Project Agreement                        Susmmarized
Section                             Covenant                      Status
2.08 (a)                        BNF to review and, if                     Unfulfilled.  Reviews
necessary, adjust interest                were irregular and
rates annually according to               rarety sufficient to
changes in the CPI in the                 keep rates positive.
previous twelve months.
3.01                            BNF shall conduct its business            Complied
and operations in accordance
with appropriate financial,
agricultural and
administrative practices and
under the supervision of
competent and experienced
management.
3.02                            BNF shall maintain records                Complied
adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently
maintained, appropriate
accounting practices, its
operations and financiaL
condition.
3.03 (a)                        BNF to establish and maintain             Complied
a separate Project Account for
Part A of the Project.
3.03 (b)                        BNF to retain all records of              Complied
expenditures for the Project
on account of which
withdrawals were requested
from the Loan Account.
3.04                            BNF to have its accounts,                 Comptied, with
financiaL statements for each            delays.
fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate
auditing principLes,
consistentLy appLied, by
independent auditors
acceptabLe to the Bank; and
submit to the Bank not later
than four months after the end
of each year, certified,
audited financial statements.



- 36 -
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Fiscal                  Stage or Project Cycle                  Total
Year        Through           Through
Appraisal      Board Approval      Supervision
1982         103.6               6.7               1.9        112.2
1983                                               8.9          8.9
1984                                              10.9         10.9
1985                                              11.6         11.6
1986                                              14.0         14.0
1987                                              16.1         16.1
1988                                               7.4          7.4
1989                                              11.9         11.9
1990                                               9.0          9.0
1991                                               7.0          7.0
1992                                              14.0         14.0
Total        103.6               6.7             112.7        223.0
Source: MIS



- 37 -
B. Missions
Stage of                                                     Perf.
Project     Month/      N of    Days in   Specialization   Rating    Types of
Cycle        Year    Persons4-    Field    Representedi/  Status/  Problemrs
Through        9/81           5         -      Ec, Ag, Fin
Appraisal!'
Through            -          -         -      -
Effectiveness
Supervision6   12/82          1         3      Ag
11/83          1        10      Ag                2          F
3/84          1         3      Ag                3          F
9/84          2        18      Ag, Ec            3          F
9/84 7'       1        16      Fin               -
3/85          1         2      Ag                3          F
10185 8/       1         8      Ec                -          -
11/85          1        18      -                 4          F
7/86 2'       2         4      -                 -          -
9/86          2        16      Ec, Ag            4          F
12/87          2        14      Ag                3         FM
4/88          3        12      Ec, Ag, Fin       3         FM
11/88         2          6      Ec, Ag            2          F
5/89          2        11      Ag                2          -
10/89         2         21      Ec                2          -
9/91          2        14      Ec                2          P
If   Ec = Economist; Ag = Agriculturalist; Fin = Financial Specialist.
2/   1 = Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems.
3/   F = Financial; M = Management; P = Procurement
4/   Includes consultants. Several missions executed by consultants only.
5/   Prior to appraisal, the record indicates that missions of reconnaissance,
identification, studies supervision and final preparation were planned by the Bank to
be carried out by the FAO/CP in 1978-79. It is not clear whether these rnissions
occurred as planned.
6/   The record is confusing as to how many missions of supervision occurred between
1982 and 1984. Form 590s and memoranda are contradictory.
7/   Special mission to review audit and financial issues on all Bank agricultural projects
in Paraguay.
8/   Special mission to review roads components of Eje Norte and Caazapa Rural
Development Projects.
9/   Special mission to discuss Govemment action on exchange rate for Bank-financed
projects, and counterpart funding problems.



- 38 -
Table 9. Comparison of Lending and Innlation Rates
(% p.a.)
Date of       New       Prior 12      Real
Adjustment    Interest     months     Interest
Rate      Inflation    Rate
_______________       R ate    _ _ _ _ _ _
up to 9/84     18.0
9/9/98        19.2        20.3       -1.7
8/8/88       22.0         23         -1.0
5/24/89       24.2        25.8        -1.6
10/12/89      28.0        25.8         2.2
10/22/90      36.0        38.2        -2.2
9/1/91        33.0        24.3        8.7
9/11/91       28.0        24.3         3.7
12/1/91       26.0        24.3
Source: Report for the Credit Component, June 26, 1992



- 39 -
Table 10. Credit Component: Financial Statements at End of Year I
(million guarani)
1984     1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
Subloans outstanding
IBRD funds-              40       73       29      201        1,312    1,391    2,779
BNF funds                33       60       23      164        1,073    1,055    2,172
Reinvested funds          -       27        4        3            -        -         -
TOTAL                    73      160       56      368        2,385    2,446    4,951
Subloans in arrears
IBRD funds                0.3      2        2        2            2       32      194
BNF funds 3/              0.2      2        4         1          83       27      128
TOTAL                     0.5      4        6        3           85       59      322
Gross subloan portfolio    73.5    164       62      371        2,470    2,505    5,273
Provisions for bad debts    1.1      5        5       13           60       99      123
Net subloan portfolio      72.4    159       57      358        2,410    2,406    5,150
Subloan revenues
Interest                  2.6      9.6     13       17          107      335      662
Commissions               0.8      2.8      4        5           23       31       14
TOTAL                     3.4     12.4     17       22          130      366      676
Subloan expenses
Interest                 15.4      4.9      6        14          36      161      289
Commissions               -        7.7      7        7            4        3        2
TOTAL                    15.4     12.6      13      21           40      164      291
Gross income (loss)       (12.0)    (0.2)     4         1          90      202      385
Provisions for
uncollectable interest      6.4      -         -        -           -        -         1
Net income (loss)         (18.4)    (0.2)     4         1          90      202      384
Financial indicators
Arrears/gross subloan
portfolio (%)           1        2       10         1           3        2        6
Gross income (loss)/
gross subl. port. (%)    (14)    -        6         -           4        8        7
1/ Summarized from cxtemal audits to BNF lines of credit financed with IBRD loan proceeds.
No disbursements were madc in 1983. Extemal audit for 1991 still in progress.
2/ Funds provided by govemment of Paraguay from proceeds of IBRD loan.
31 Includes reinvested funds.



- 40 -
Table 11. Financial Performance of BNF (Consolidated) 1
(million guarani)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Financial indicators 2
Annual growth of net loan
portfolio (%)                      10      25       10       39       15       22       33       22       40
Loans in armars/gross loan
ponfolio (%)                       22      20       20       18       12        9       13       16       11
Averagc return on gross
loan portfolio (%)                  -        -        -       -        -        -       17       26       25
Average retum on net loan
portfolio (%)                      15       15      17       18       19       16       18       27       27
Growthofoperatingcost(%)             12        9       16       8       26       26       51      112        4
Operating cost/gross loan
portfolio (%)                       8        7       7        6        6        7        8       13       10
Liquidity ratio (times)             1.0      1.3      1.3      1.4      1.1     1.5      1.3      1.4       1.3
Growth of deposits from the
public (%)                         31      22       13       57        9     (15)       14       50       62
Avergecostofborrowings(%)             8        8       10       9       11       10       11       17       17
Coat of borrowings/gross
loan portfolio (%)                  -        -        -       -        -        -        8       13       13
Net income (oss)/equity               2        2        3       5        4        4      (22)       2        3
Revenue eaming assets/total
assets (%)                         71      72       71       70       58       62       74       67       69
Debt/equity ratio (times)             3        4        4       5        3        3        4        3        5
Intemr generated funds/debt
aerv. (times)                       -      1.5      1.5      1.6     1.2      1.9      1.4      1.1      1.4
Operational indicators t
Operational network
(branches)                              -             -        -      49       50       50       50       50
Total staff (number)                  -        -        -        -        -   1,057    1,095    1,026      925
Staff at headquarers
(number)                                -        -            -        -      634      656     587       532
Country economic indicators 3
Inflation rate Dec./Dec. (%)          -        -        -        -        -      (7)    28.5    44.1      11.8
Inflation rate - avcrage (%)       13.5    20.3    25.2    31.7    21.8    23.0    25.8    38.2           24.3
Exchange rate - Dec. 31 st
(0/USS)                         126.6     240      240      320      320      400    1,220    1,262    1,382
-   Information not available.
J/  Includes BNF's three main depanments (Agriculture, Industry and Commercial).
2/  Souce: BNF'S financial department.
/  Source: Central Bank of Paraguay.



- 41 -
Table 12. Financial Performance of BNF's Aericultural Department
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990           1991
Financial Indicators
Annual growth of net loan
portfolio (%)                      i8      40        9       30       17        1       64      20        32
Loans in arrears/gross loan
portfolio (%)                      18       14      17       13       10        8        6        9        7
Average return on gross loan
portfolio (%)                       -        -        -       -        -        -       14      24        24
Average return on net loan
portfolio (%)                      14      14       16       15       16       15       15      25        26
Growthofoperatingcost(%)             11       28      16       14       13       25       46      102       26
Operating cost/gross loan
pontfolio (%)                       6       6        6        6        5        6        6       10       10
Average cost of borrowings (%)        7        6       9        8        9       10        9       14       17
Cost of borrowings/gross loan
portfolio (%)                       -        -        -       -        -        -        7       10       12
Net income (loss)/equity (%)        0.3      0.5      0.1     0.2      0.8        2     (18)        7        3
Revenue eaming assets/total
assets (%)                        84       90       93       97       80       72       91      81        92
Debt/equity ratio (times)             3        4       4        4        2        2        3        2        2
Intem, generated funds/debt
serv. (times)                     0.9      1.0     1.3      2.2      0.8      1.3      1.7      1.4      1.4
-   Infomation not available.
i   Soure: BNF's Financial Department.
Table 13. BNF's SUDport to the Agricultural Sector I/
(%)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Type of Loans
Short-term                                    78       63       86      82       71       74       79       96
Long-term                                     22       37       14       18      29       26       21        4
TOTAL                                        100      100      100      100      100     100      100      100
Type of Farmers
Small- and Medium-scale                       48       66       72      68       71       70       77     N/A
Large-scale                                   52       34      28       32       29       30       23     N/A
TOTAL                                        100      100      100      100      100      100     100
BNF's share in total crops financed
nationwide (ha)
Soybeans                                      23       47       30       38      42       39       40       43
Wheat                                         69       78       79      82       61       91       54       41
Cotton                                        14       16       11       15      54       37       60       32
Rice                                          23       32       29      40       24       26       13       16
Sugarcane                                     28       51       60      27       49       44       36       34
Other 2                                        7       10       10       10        6        7       8        4
Total Area                                    16       28       22       26       30       30      35       26
I/ Summarized from BNF's annual reports.
Z/ Includes: com, peanut, tobacco, shorgum, spurge, cassava.



- 42 -
Table 14. Crops Financed by Ln. 2141-PA
(ha)
Year                                        Crops                                         Total
Soy     Cotton    Maize    Wheat   Tobacco   Cassava    Sugar    Other
cane
1983         -       238        44         -        41         38         -        36       397
1984          -    1,550       227         -        154       224        19       219     2,393
1985        85     2,243       627         -        149       423         9       367     3,903
1986         -        21        13         -          5         4         -         2        45
1987        44     2,854       655         -        185       523        52       190     4,503
1988     3,900    10,449     2,267     2,372       208      1,644       174       650    21,664
1989    12,352    3,809        702     7,330         19       435        48       205    24,900
1990     3,385    16,062     1,956     1,367       202      1,548       102       296    24,918
1991     4,500     1,244         3     2,500          -         2         -         -    8,249
Total   24,266   38,470      6,494    13,569        963     4,841       404      1,965    90,972









IBRD 16176
3~ ~ ~
|                                        _ < a n;a~~~~~~~~~~~~ot  Ros a
2400                                         7/1
7-
Pierto Lo Ni\          j                                              \
2                           Cho
Cruce Liberaci6n
^              1                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
8'' r              '                             4                              //
~~~~~~ ~~~~~I _/
~Yruhi                                                           /
/~                                   San Pedro
O'Jhugua Rey
7~~~~~~\                                           <~~~~~~~27.                                        
a                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24' 30
Ita curubi del Rosorio
PARAGUAY
4                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EJE NORTE INTEGRATED
I Ll :'' ,r ~~/ >, l r RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
o Existing German assisted colonies
Son Estanislao              cuara                           Additional Colonies
' '  21    . {                                 \                                 Notionol roads
Is uznr e1*rmoss               .__                                                                                 _ *   _ .-    \Secondary roads
Feeder roads
10IC Fe - anS                                         /                                            \                             Rivers
Marshes
.    i,,F, ,s 1e -Ice   uo,o  l/,f] 
oUnion
2t C0 rT-,                                                                                                            KIon-eteri 0       5        10       15       20
2  I A s-   5.                                                                                                          ,  e0
.Q:-    t , o n c     11pb
58 Aseir,                                 J           -\                                                                        r     -
. Oos5J Psiirt    lhopebs              '                                                             ih M-,es 0                              5              10
i.j,si5si5si                                                                   rnssu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vhi..p"Ine.w-  h.p1.s.oos   -o,d8- 0   s .t.....,d-.-
3    is-ij  emere                                                                                         \     5 o/5 ,h fld.5 ofrs*h- .pontIo.Wd'flci  uisscse onhe pdeso,sihsaross,sd d    assa+56
L:                                                                         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.fi.. soyPn o/ssdgmeoun,s 2OC 5tgS8ius 0(80 '^t seios 5,8 *iis SdosssSAiiso
.-5p-. hf -hb0. SOom/d O.-
56e30                C,,s.ss,.J                                                          5600



