Document of
The World Bank                    V A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-32 76-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR AN
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 19, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                G 126
G 1.00                 US$0.008
G 1,000                US$7.94
G 1,000,000            US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
BNF   -   National Development Bank
CAH   -   Small Farmer Credit Agency
CNFPA -   National Council for the Development of Agricultural
Production
FRG   -   Federal Republic of Germany
IBR   -   Rural Welfare Institute
IDB   -   Inter-American Development Bank
MAG   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
ONCP  -   National Projects Coordinating Office under CNFPA
SEAG  -   Agricultural Extension Service
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                   =      10,000 m2  =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 =      0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)         =      0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =      2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =      0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  =  1 metric ton        =      0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PARAGUAY                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Public Works (rural roads), Rural Welfare
Institute (land titling), Ministry of Agriculture
(agricultural research, extension and tobacco burley redrying
and threshing plant), Ministry of Health (health services and
latrines), and National Development Bank (BNF) (on lending for
financing on-farm development).
Loan Amount:   US$22.4 million equivalent (including US$0.4 million front-end
fee).
Loan Terms:    17 years, including 4 years of grace, at 11.6% per annum.
Relending
Terms:         Government would relend to BNF about US$6 million from
the loan proceeds at 0.5% above Bank's interest rate for 17
years including 4 years of grace. BNF's sub-loans would bear
interest and other charges at a rate of 18% per annum, such
rate to be reviewed at least once a year to reflect changes in
domestic inflation with an amortization period of up to 10
years including up to 3 years of grace. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The proposed project aims at improving smallholder incomes and
living conditions, by supporting efforts to: (a) increase
agricultural production and productivity through improved
availability of credit, extension, research, and the
construction of a burley tobacco redrying and threshing plant;
(b) provide necessary infrastructure, particularly roads and
health services; and (c) support associated institutional
development, mainly to carry out a land titling program, help
develop producers' cooperatives and strengthen the Ministry of
Agriculture's Planning Department.
Project Risks: Inter-agency coordination, especially regarding timely
implementation of the roads and land titling components, and
construction of the proposed burley plant. Potential problems
of coordination should be minimized through a recently
strengthened interministerial body. Timely implementation of
the roads component will be helped by a new Feeder Roads Unit
which is being supported by an ongoing highways project.
Adherence to the schedule for issuing land titles would be
supported by technical assistance and detailed plans for the
operation. Notwithstanding the interest expressed by private
firms in participating in the construction of a burley plant,
such participation cannot be guaranteed. However, the
substantial seed financing under the project should ensure the
establishment of the plant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                   -----US$ million-----
Local  Foreign  Total
Agricultural Credit                4.4      4.4      8.8
Banking Infrastructure              0.2     0.1      0.3
Extension                          0.2      0.1      0.3
Agricultural Research               0.2     0.0      0.2
Roads                              3.9      9.9    13.8
Land Titling                       0.6      0.4      1.0
Burley Drying Plant                0.6      2.1      2.7
Cooperative Development            0.0      0.1      0.1
Project Administration             0.2      0.4      0.6
Planning Department                0.2      0.5      0.7
Health                              0.8     0.7      1.5
Total Baseline Costs              11.3    18.7    30.0
Physical Contingencies           0.4      1.2      1.6
Price Contingencies              5.2      3.7      8.9
Total Project Costs                16.9    23.6    40.5 1/
Front-end Fee of Bank Loan                  0.4      0.4
Total Financing Required           16.9    24.0    40.9
1/   Taxes and duties are exempt from directly imported items.  Taxes for
other items are not significant.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
---------…US$ Millions-------
Bank                                 22.4         22.4
Government a/            10.2         1.6         11.8
BNF                       5.5                      5.5
Credit Beneficiaries    1.2                        1.2
16.9       24.0         40.9
a/   Includes possible participation of private
sector for burley plant.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988
…----------------     US$ Millions----------------
Annual          1.7       3.8        5.6      6.0       4.4       0.9
Cumulative      1.7       5.5      11.1      17.1      21.5      22.4
Economic Rate of Return:   Weighted average of all components is 19.0%
Staff Appraisal Report:    Eje Norte Rural Development Project, Report
No. 3792b-PA, dated April 19, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR THE
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$22.4 million to assist
in financing the Eje Norte Rural Development Project. The Loan, which
includes a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5% on the Bank loan, would have a
term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 11.6%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in November 1980 and its
report "Economic Memorandum on Paraguay" (3569-PA, September 1981), covering
short- and medium-term developments, has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. The following discussion is based on the findings of this
mission. Country data sheets are presented in Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing, is the
mainstay of Paraguay's economy. Over the last two decades these activities
directly contributed about 30% of GDP, 40% of employment and 80% of
merchandise exports earnings. Indirectly, their contribution is even larger,
since most of Paraguay's manufacturing industry consists in the processing of
agricultural materials, both for home consumption and for export. Although
no significant mineral resources have been found in Paraguay, the country is
endowed with ample land suitable for farming and livestock raising, as well
as significant forest stands. These land resources are located east of the
Paraguay river. The area west of that river--the Chaco, particularly its
northern half--is generally unsuitable for agriculture owing to insufficient
or uneven rainfall.   Of the 8 million hectares in the eastern half of the
country suitable for farming, only some 1.4 million--less than 20%--are
at present under crops.
4.        During the 1960's, agriculture's and overall economic growth was
slow: 1.8% and 4.3% annually, respectively, in constant prices. The
introduction of soy beans in 1970 accelerated growth, and both crop
production and forestry exploitation expanded substantially. Livestock
production also increased, though somewhat less.  The construction of the
Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the Parana river jointly with Brazil, started in
the mid-1970's, gave a new and strong impulse to the economy, the more so as
it coincided with favorable conditions in world markets for cotton and soy
beans, Paraguay's main export crops. The combined effect of both factors
made it possible for Paraguay to achieve during 1974-80 an average growth
rate of just under 10%.   This has been accompanied by other improvements in
the standard of living, as reflected in the increased life expectancy and



- 2 -
literacy rates, while child mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are
comparable to those found in countries with higher per capita incomes.  The
agricultural growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the
real incomes of the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of
the total. A significant share of production of cotton and soybeans, which
account for most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers, many of
whom have received land under government and privately sponsored colonization
programs. Rural wages have, though with some lags, generally been rising in
real terms. Thus, the benefits of agricultural growth have been fairly
widely shared. Despite the significant progress made in recent years,
however, Paraguay's per capita income is still low and large segments of the
population still live in poverty. On the other hand, rising incomes, the new
dynamism of the economy and the greater social mobility, are creating new and
more diverse needs, both at the individual and national levels, as well as
stronger expectations that they be satisfied.  This creates for the
government and the private sector new demands for expanding much needed
social services, particularly with regard to education and health services.
5.   The considerable increase of Paraguay's agricultural production in re-
cent years has been achieved by expanding the area under cultivation. This
has been taking place through a process of colonization carried out largely
by small farmers, who, particularly at the beginning, migrated from the
minifundia area around Asuncion. This process, initially organized by the
government, became massive and largely spontaneous, and of late has been fur-
ther stimulated--and to some extent guided--by the construction of roads into
new lands and the improvement of the existing road network.
6.        The construction of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam has provided
well-paid employment to several thousand skilled and semi-skilled Paraguayan
workers and given rise to a c .nstellation of productive activities suv.1plying
construction materials and services for the dam itself and also for the rapid
expansion of Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, thriving on the boom arising from
the huge hydroelectric project. Both the construction of the dam and the
expansion of the nearby city have increased the demand for food and consumer
goods--many of them agricultural-based--thus creating an additional powerfull
attraction for further expanding agricultural production into the eastern
regions.
7.        The high rate of economic growth and per capita incomes, sustained
now for nearly a decade, and the relatively broad distribution of their
benefits, as well as some features of the development process itself, are
rapidly changing important aspects of Paraguay's economy. The growing
stronger links with the outside world expand outlets for the country's
production and increase the need for investment capital and the adoption of
modern, more efficient technology. This process also subjects the economy
more than ever before to changing world economic conditions.
8.        The rapid growth of aggregate demand had been slowly pushing prices
upwards for three years. These pressures were reinforced in 1979 by the
second round of oil price increases and a poor crop-year resulting from
unfavorable weather. Consequently, inflation accelerated to 28%, compared to
10.6% the previous year. The authorities adopted in 1980 a series of trade
liberalization measures intended to induce greater registration of imports,



- 3 -
and increase lagging Central Government custom's revenues. The maintenance
of a restrictive public sector expenditures policy and a record crop helped
to lower the inflation rate to 22%, at the same time that a real growth rate
of 11.4% was achieved, and international reserves increased by US$167
million.
9.        In 1981, growth slowed to 8.6%.  This slower, albeit still
satisfactory, pace of the economy was caused mainly by a 5% drop in commodity
exports and the cessation of tourism from and exports to Argentina as a
result of the large devaluation of the Argentinian peso and recession. These
developments weakened the Central Government financial position, though
strong restraint of current expenditures reduced the over-all deficit.
Balance-of-payments performance was satisfactory, as the larger current
account deficit was covered by capital inflows, and net international
reserves increased by US$45 million.
10.       The authorities reacted to the slower pace of economic activity by
adopting a series of measures designed to bolster lagging Central Government
revenues, stimulate commodity exports and arrest the growth of imports.
Several tax measures were enacted, and steps were taken to strengthen tax
administration. In the credit, monetary, and foreign exchange fields, the
Central Bank adopted regulations allowing the banks to pay higher interest
rates on savings deposits and to operate in the free foreign exchange
market. This latter measure should strengthen the Central Bank's control of
foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank also now allows exporters
to negotiate 50% of their foreign exchange earnings in the fluctuating
market, thereby improving their competitive position, while all
imports--except petroleum and wheat--are now required to acquire foreign
exchange in that same market.
Economic Prospects
11.       Paraguay's economic prospects are favorable.  The country still has
unutilized agricultural land sufficient to sustain for many years the recent
expansion of production, though greater attention will also have to be paid
to increasing agricultural productivity. Though the large capital inflows
associated with the construction of Itaipu are likely to taper off in the
near future, it is expected that this reduction will be largely compensated
by official external borrowing and inflows associated with the construction
of the Yacyreta hydroelectric dam. Also, once Itaipu comes on stream, the
Paraguayan Government willl begin to receive compensation for its sales of
electric energy to Brazil.
12.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 7-8% during 1982-85. This projected rate is
lower than the average of 1977-80 as a consequence of the expected decline of
construction activity on Itaipu after 1982. In the light of the experience of
recent years, and taking into account the stronger and more articulated
government support to the ongoing agricultural expansion, real exports are
projected to grow at 11% annually; imports are projected to grow somewhat
less, partly as a result of slower GDP growth and partly as a result of the
transfer of their payment to the free exchange market, which eliminates the
incentive represented by the purchase of foreign exchange at the official



- 4 -
rate. Based on the above assumptions, Paraguay's resource gap would be some-
what larger during the projection period than in recent years, amounting on
the average to about US$600 million. However, it would drop from the present
14% of GDP to 9% by 1985. Thus, Paraguay would need some US$2.4 billion of
net capital inflows during that four-year period. Of this amount, $0.3
billion would result from direct private investment; some $0.9 billion would
come from long-term multilateral loans by private creditors and about US$1.0
billion from Itaipu and Yacyreta hydroelectric projects. Public sector
borrowing of about $0.7 billion would thus be required, of which some $0.4
would be for amortization. According to our projections the debt service
ratio* will be around 17% this year, drop to 10% in 1983 and to 5% by 1985.
13.       The role of the Government in this context is to continue to
support economic expansion through private sector initiative and ensure a
greater participation by the population in the benefits of growth.
Instrumental in this will be the effort to remove the most important
contraints facing the small farmers, such as lack of infrastructure,
marketing facilities, credit, extension and the provision of social
services. The rising income and the plentiful supply of agricultural raw
materials provide, at the same time, a favorable environment for the
manufacturing sector. Government support in the provision of capital and the
development of manpower will be required. To play an effective role, the
Government also has to expand its technical and administrative capacity to
prepare and execute a larger investment program. The need to increase the
absorptive capacity of the economy, particularly that of the public sector,
is an attainable and imperative goal in the light of the financial resources
that will in time be accruing to the Government in compensation for the
electric power sold to neighboring countries. Given the continuation of
current economic polictes, the country's growing capital requirements, and
the projected capital inflows, Paraguay is expected to maintain its
creditworthiness for external financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       To date, Paraguay has received US$368.9 million (net of
cancellations) of Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$319.1
million has been in the form of 22 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight
IDA credits. As of March 31, 1982, the Bank and IDA held US$351.6 million,
including US$181.0 million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA
as of December 31, 1980, was equivalent to about 22% of Paraguay's external
debt, with a blend of about 18% IDA and 82% IBRD; this share is not expected
to increase. The service on this debt amounted to 12.6% of total debt
service in 1978 or about 1.2% of exports of goods and non-factor services.
On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay to date has been 43%
for agriculture, 29% for transportation; 11% for industry, 10% for education,
2% for preinvestment studies in various sectors, and 5% for water supply.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Similarly,
the record in the disbursement of the corresponding credits/loans, has been
good.
*    Calculated on the whole external debt, public and private.



- 5 -
15.       IFC has had three operations in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project through a US$4.0 million loan, an equity partici-
pation of US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost
overruns of US$0.4 million. The project experienced critical financial and
managerial problems, and efforts to restructure it did not succeed. IFC is
in the process of divesting itself of such assets. In 1980, IFC financed a
US$1.2 million hotel operation in the city of Encarnacion. In 1981, an IFC
investment in an agricultural project in southeastern Paraguay, was approved,
consisting of a US$5.0 million loan and a US$2.0 million equity partici-
pation.   Lastly, the Board approved this fiscal year, an IFC supported hotel
operation in Asuncion entailing a US$2.5 million loan and a US$0.881 million
equity participation. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments, as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY82 consists of the Caazapa Area
Development Project, recently approved. In addition to the proposed project,
a VII Highways Project is being presented to the Executive Directors also in
FY82; the projects are closely interrelated, since part of the highways
financed by the loan cut across the rural development area. Preparation work
is underway on projects in: ports and inland waterways, urban and rural
development in Southeastern Paraguay, agricultural credit, livestock develop-
ment and education.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and comple-
mentary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely than
before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and,
particularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.
18.       Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural
water supply is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to
improve the living standards of the lowest 40% on the income distribution
scale. Similarly, Bank Group lending for industry, agricultural development
and livestock is aimed at increasing value added and exports of agricultural
products, and at expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small
farmers. Lastly, loans in the transport sector are designed to help improve
institutional structures and policies of the sector, which play a vital role
in supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors. As agriculture constitutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy,
these operations are designed to support, either directly or indirectly, the
development of that sector, by underpinning in particular the Government's
efforts in extending social and other backup services, financial support and
technical assistance to existing and new agricultural settlements. In
particular, Bank-financed highway projects in Paraguay emphasize support to
programs designed to improve the living conditions in rural areas. Pre-
investment projects are aimed at supporting programs that help overcome



- 6 -
institutional constraints, in particular in planning, economic management,
and project preparation and execution. The proposed project is in line with
the objectives of supporting the programs designed to improving living
conditions in rural areas, and the strengthening of public institutions such
as those providing basic services and infrastructure to the rural poor and
supporting agricultural development efforts within the framework of ecologic-
ally sound measures.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       Agriculture is the most important activity in the Paraguayan
economy, contributing about 33% of GDP, some 95% of the country's total
exports, and over half of total employment. Its growth performance (close to
7% per annum since 1973) reflects the positive response of producers to
favorable external demand and prices, the country's favorable investment
climate, the ample tracts of productive land, and the Government's efforts to
improve the sector's productive capacity through investment in infrastruc-
ture, credit and technical assistance.
20.       Rangeland covers about 17 million ha, of which 60% are in the Chaco
and 40% in the Eastern Region.   Ranch size varies widely.  About 1% of all
ranches have more than 750 cattle per ranch and about 55% of the country's
cattle population; 90% have less than 50 head and about 25% of the country's
cattle. About three-quarters of the livestock producers owning less than 20
head of cattle are also engaged in crop farming. Livestock productivity is
low in terms of meat production per ha, mainly because of extensive produc-
tion systems and poor nutritton, particularly in the Chaco, where past-res
are subject to floods and droughts. According to sample surveys conducted by
the Ministry of Agriculture, the cattle population increased in the seventies
at an average yearly rate of about 5%. Other classes of livestock are of
much less importance: internal milk production was around 160,000 tons in
1979; pork production, which is mainly a secondary activity of crop farmers,
was 130,000 tons of carcass weight in 1979; and poultry production reached an
estimated 3,600 tons in 1978, from around 2,200 tons in 1972.
21.       Production of crops, the most important being cassava, soybeans,
corn, cotton, tobacco and sugarcane, fruits and vegetables, is essentially
limited to Eastern Paraguay. Commodities which increased the most, between
1972 and 1978, were soybeans (180%), cotton (160 %), black tobacco (70%),
maize (50%) and rice (26%). These increases have come about mostly from
expansion of cropped areas, particularly in new public and private
settlements. Further production increases are expected, accelerated by



- 7 -
increased economic activity and higher incomes arising from the hydroelectric
power projects along the Parana River and better highways, linking the cities
of Ciudad Presidente Stroessner and Encarnacion, and improving access to the
North-East through the Eje Norte area (these improvements are being imple-
mented under the Bank-supported Sixth and forthcoming Seventh Highway
Projects). The extent and speed of such production expansion would depend
also on the availability of investment capital, and on the public sector's
ability to provide adequate infrastructure and technical services that are
necessary to ensure the permanent transition from subsistence to commercial
agriculture. The Bank and other aid agencies have been helping this process
by financing a number of integrated rural development projects designed to
upgrade existing smallholder settlements and to support new settlers.
Institutional Framework
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) is responsible for policy formu-
lation, and for supervision and review of supporting services for the
sector. The Ministry's most important activities are agricultural extension
(through its Agricultural Extension Service - SEAG), research, marketing,
collecting agricultural statistics, and land reform. Various autonomous
entities carry out related programs. The National University of Asuncion
provides most of the agricultural education and some research, while the
Rural Welfare Institute (IBR) is responsible for land tenure, land reform and
colonization programs.
23.       The Livestock Fund, the National Development Bank (BNF), and the
Smallholder Credit Agency (CAH), provide agricultural credit. The efforts of
the Livestock Fund (an entity with full legal personality under the jurisdic-
tion of the Central Bank) to reach the smallholder livestock farmers are
supported under various Bank-financed livestock operations, in particular by
ensuring the provision of suitable technical assistance. BNF (a Govern-
ment-owned autonomous entity under the authority of the Ministry of Finance)
is Paraguay's main source of institutional agricultural credit and also
provides commercial and industrial financing. Its ability to plan and
execute development programs has been constrained by institutional weak-
nesses. These are being addressed as part of two recent Bank-financed indus-
trial credit operations. Technical assistance for its Agricultural Depart-
ment is being provided under the recently approved Caazapa Area Development
Project. CAH, a Department of MAG, provides credit to smallholder members of
farmers' associations who are not eligible for commercial or BNF credit.
Supplementary technical services to the livestockthe livestock subsector are
provided by the National Service for the Control of Foot and Mouth Disease
and the National Program for Livestock Research. The Forestry Service, which
has limited resources, comes under the jurisdiction of MAG. Lastly, at the
Ministerial level, the National Council for Social Progress has attempted to
coordinate the policies of the several agencies involved in the execution of
rural development projects; and recently established National Council for
the Development of Agricultural Production (CNFPA), a smaller highlevel body,
is concerned with the execution of rural development projects and with over-
all marketing, production and policies issues. CNFPA is being strengthened
under the Caazapa Area Development Project and provided with a permanent
secretariat, the National Projects Coordinating Office (ONCP), which is being
established.



- 8 -
24.       Overall, the capacity of MAG and other institutions assisting agri-
culture is limited compared to the requirements for fuller realization of the
country's agricultural potential.  In addition to measures aimed at strength-
ening agricultural credit institutions through previous and on-going Bank/IDA
projects, efforts to upgrade the effectiveness of technical services are
being supported by IDB, UNDP, and USAID. The rapid development of the sector
over the last two decades is not being captured adequately by existing agri-
cultural statistics, as they are based on the census of 1956. An updated
agricultural census, followed by the establishment of a permanent system for
gathering annual agricultural statistics, is being undertaken currently with
Bank support: when completed, the results should provide the Government and
external agencies with more accurate information, which would help in the
definition of policy options, programs and investment priorities.
Land Tenure
25.       There are about 165,000 farms in the country, of which 55% are
owner-operated, 10% are under some form of tenancy and 35% are occupied by
squatters. The Government's land settlement and titling program has reduced
significantly the proportion of squatters and increased correspondingly the
share of owners. Land distribution is uneven, reflecting, on one hand, the
pronounced differences between natural endowment in Eastern Paraguay and the
Chaco and, on the other, the differences in infrastructural development in
between various regions. Some 4% of all farms are larger than 100 ha and 61%
are smaller than 10 ha. The latter cover less than 4% of the country, while
two-thirds of the units over 100 ha, mainly livestock ranches, are located in
the Chaco.
26.       In 1963 the Government established the IBR to deal with all aspects
of land tenure, reform and settlement. The IBR has organized public
settlements and sponsored private ones, settling about 3,000 families per
year, mostly from the "minifundia" areas south of Asuncion, providing plots
of about 15-20 ha of undeveloped land to each family. The program has
concentrated on settling large numbers of families at the lowest possible
cost, based essentially on the self-reliance of the settlers. Because of
limited agricultural services, financial support and infrastructure, farm
development in these settlements has been slow; the standard of living of
many settlers is barely above that of the "minifundia" dwellers. However,
inadequate organization and complex procedures, involving the cooperation of
numerous Government agencies, have affected IBR's ability to maintain
adequate control over land occupancy and to accelerate the titling process.
In addition, farmers have lacked incentive to seek titles since: (i) they
have to make a cash down payment to obtain the plots; and (ii) eviction is
unlikely to occur. Titles are only required as collateral to obtain
agricultural credit. In Bank-supported rural development projects specific
titling targets have been laid down, and IBR has received support in the form
of technical assistance and physical facilities to assist the titling program
and ensure its completion. The cash down payment has been maintained at not
more than 10% of the value of land, which IBR keeps at artificially low
levels. More recently, IDB and the Bank have started to assist IBR at its
headquarters level with a view to improving its nationwide operations,
especially in the titling field. At any rate, since the early seventies, the
Government has devoted increasing attention to the consolidation of existing
setttlements and integrated rural development projects in new settlement



- 9 -
areas, through the provision of credit, extension and settlement
infrastructure. As a result, much of the recent increase in agricultural
production has come from farmers who have benefitted from the Government's
land settlement program.
Agricultural Marketing and Prices
27.       In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is
free of restrictive Government regulations, and prices are established
largely in the market. Competition among marketing agents is strong except
in isolated areas with poor infrastructure. Wheat and sugarcane are the sole
products for which the Government establishes a minimum price. Given the
open economy, the prices are influenced by market conditions abroad,
particularly in Argentina and Brazil, and domestic prices generally follow
the movement of world prices.
28.       Domestic demand for beef has been increasing rapidly as a result of
the accelerated economic activity in the country. At the same time, exports
of beef have fallen to negligible quantities following the closure of the EEC
market to meat imports in 1974, and exports of live cattle, mainly to Brazil,
have increased. The latter, which are difficult to monitor, are estimated by
MAG to have been around 150,000 head in 1979. Unregistered exports of live
pigs, poultry and eggs to Brazil continue at an undetermined rate. Domestic
demand for these products is increasing steadily. Increases in production of
soybeans and cotton have been buoyed by strong export demand. Production of
vegetables and crops for domestic consumption has also increased to meet the
growing demand of the local market.
29.       Farmers sell their products mainly to intermediaries and, to a
lesser extent to cooperatives. From there, the products are sold to
exporters or to wholesalers. Intermediaries, who are usually merchants or
truckers, purchase the farm products within their localities and frequently
employ secondary agents to contact farmers directly. For the most part, the
agents are small-scale operators with limited capital or handling and
processing know-how, and with rudimentary storage facilities. Improvements
are required in agricultural marketing to ensure better access of farmers'
products to local and foreign markets. The planned establishment of whole-
sale markets in the country's major consumption centers should assist pro-
ducers of fruits and vegetables in areas surrounding these centers; a whole-
sale market in Asuncion, partially financed by the Bank, has just been
completed.
Forestry and Soil Conservation
30.       The country has over 20 million ha of forest classified as
temperate-warm/humid and considered to have commercially valuable timber.
According to a 1972 FAO survey, the forest area contained about 16m3 per ha
(log equivalent). The survey concluded that there was a need to improve
forest management, and thereby to enhance soil conservation practices, since
the rate of extraction of valuable species was exceeding the process of
natural growth and regeneration. The first forest management program is
being supported by the Caazapa Area Development Project.



- 10 -
Bank Strategy
31.       The proposed project would be the tenth Bank/IDA-supported agricul-
tural project in Paraguay and the fifth integrated rural development oper-
ation. These projects comprise a general-purpose agricultural project in
1951, followed by four livestock projects, two rural development projects,
a livestock and agricultural development project, another livestock project,
and finally the above-mentioned Caazapa Area Development Project. The loan
for the Fourth Livestock Project is now fully disbursed and the first rural
development project is fully executed. Funds under the livestock component
of the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project are fully committed.
As for the recently approved Livestock Development Project, funds from the
Bank and the OPEC Fund for International Development, which is co-financing
this project, are being committed at a faster pace than anticipated.
32.       The Bank's agricultural lending strategy is to help sustain and
broaden the growth process, begun in the 1970s. To this end, the Bank is
supporting efforts to: (a) expand the agricultural frontier, and (b) assist
small farmers to participate in, and contribute to, agricultural develop-
ment. These approaches are being undertaken while at the same time protect-
ing natural resources. The strategy implies an increasing emphasis on rural
development operations and a gradual de-emphasis of extensive ranching oper-
ations for larger farmers. The former is based on the positive results of
earlier and on-going rural development projects, while the latter is
justified in view of the limited redistributional impact, the potential for
increased livestock production among small agricultural producers, and the
satisfactory institutional development resulting from previous operations.
33.       This strategy is in line with the Government's policy and consti-
tutes a suitably balanced effort to meet the economic and social oLjectives
of the sector.  It is compl'mented by assistance from other lending insti-
tutions, notably the IDB ar.i USAID, and from the Governments of Japan and the
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), in the fields of agricultural marketing,
research, extension, agricultural statistics, and specific commodity
programs. With financial support from the Government's Preinvestment Fund
(financed under Credit 587-PA and Loan 1780-PA) and associated technical
assistance, MAG is preparing a pipeline of agricultural projects,which are
expected to be financed by the Bank and other agencies.
34.       Experience with the execution of livestock and rural development
projects in Paraguay underscores the importance of: (i) improving herd and
pasture management for raising productivity in the livestock subsector; and
(ii) expanding financial and technical services for agriculture, including
transport infrastructure, in order to accelerate the realization of produc-
tion potential and to meet the development needs of lower income people.
The experience with the first two rural development projects has been satis-
factory. However, because only one of the rural development projects has
been recently completed, the Project Performance Audit Reports available so
far relate solely to livestock projects.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was identified by the Government with UNDP
support in 1978 and was prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, with
support from MAG and from consultants financed under the First Preinvestment
Studies Project (IDA Credit 587-PA). The consultants surveyed and assembled
basic data on the project area, and prepared preliminary designs for the road
network. About 65,000 people, or 10,000 families, live in the project area,
which is in San Pedro Department in central-eastern Paraguay (see map). The
main urban centers are Tacuara/San Estanislao in the south, 230 km from
Asuncion, and Chore and Lima in the north, 300 km and 340 km from Asuncion,
respectively. Tacuara and Lima are connected by the "northern axis" road
which is to be paved under the proposed VII Highway Project. The project
area comprises 32 settlements established by IBR: 19 had been established by
the end of the 1960s and the remainder in the 1970s. The earlier settle-
ments were subdivided into lots of around 15 ha, while later the lots have
been around 20 ha, which is the prevailing size adopted by IBR in its newer
settlements in much of the rest of the Eastern region of the country. The
average lot size in the project area is around 18 ha. So far, because of
the deficiencies in the titling process noted in paragraph 25, of the nearly
9,000 lots, only 15% have received definitive titles, 52% are under adjudica-
tion and the remaining 33% are occupied by squatters who have no established
legal claim to their lands. The area is receiving support in public health
through programs financed by IDB and FRG; in water supply through a FRG sup-
ported project; and in primary education under the Bank's Third Education
Project (Loan 1346-PA/Credit 667-PA) and Rural Primary Education Project
(Loan 1992-PA). Part of the project area has been benefitting from FRG
assistance (in agricultural research, credit, extension and cooperative
development) since 1976 when an aid effort was initiated in seven colonies in
the northern section. Two subsequent FRG loans expanded coverage in the
area, the most recent being of DM5 million in 1979, which provides agricul-
tural credit, supported by technical assistance, for approximately 1,000
small-holders over four years in 10 colonies in the project area. This loan
became effective in mid-1981. Thus the current FRG program in the project
area includes the DM5 million credit component (less than 10% of the planned
subloans, have been provided so far) and a technical assistance component
which may terminate in mid-1983.
36.       A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Eje Norte Rural Devel-
opment Project (No. 3792b-PA)" is being circulated separately. A Loan and
Project Summary is attached to this report. Negotiations with the Borrower
took place in Washington in early April 1982. The Paraguayan delegation was
headed by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, President of the Central Bank of Paraguay.
A supplemental Project Data sheet is included as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The proposed project aims at improving smallholder incomes and
living conditions, by supporting efforts to:
(a) increase agricultural production and productivity through improved
availability of credit, extension, research, and the construction
of a burley tobacco redrying and threshing plant;



- 12 -
(b)  provide necessary infrastructure, particularly roads and health
services; and
(c)  support associated institutional development, mainly to carry out a
land titling program, help develop producers' cooperatives and
strengthen MAG's Planning Department.
38.       Agricultural production and productivity would be enhanced
mainly through the adoption by smallholders of improved production practices
on already deforested land. Such practices would include destumping,
improvements in seed varieties used, times of planting, plant spacing,
fertilizer and insecticide applications, addition of legumes to improved
pastures, and adoption of double cropping and improved crop/pasture rota-
tions. Many recommendations are already available, steming from research
undertaken in the area with FRG assistance since 1976. To a lesser extent,
production increases would come from additional deforestation, which would
occur mainly on the newer, lesser developed farms.
(a) Agricultural Credit. Investment and seasonal production credit
would be provided by BNF to some 2,500 smallholder farmers over four years.
Subloans would be based on farm plans for the development of cash crops,
mainly cotton, tobacco and soybeans, and for food crops for on-farm consump-
tion, mainly maize, cassava and beans.  Incremental short term credit would
support cash purchases of improved seeds, fertilizers and insecticides, and
payments to hired labor. The colonies located in the zone of influence of
Chore would continue to receive assistance by CAH through the ongoing FRG
program described above. BNF, through the proposed project, would concen-
trate its efforts on the colonies in the south and near Lima in the north.
BNF would also be responsible for CAH-assisted colonies to farmers who have
more than 25 ha. BNF's branch office in San Estanislao would be expanded,
and BNF would open a subbranch in Lima. Vehicles, their associated operating
and maintenance expenses, and additional staff would be financed under the
project.
(b) Extension. The project area currently has 17 SEAG extension
agents, two home economists and three FRG-provided extension advisers. Under
the project, 10 additional agents and one home economist would be provided,
as well as vehicles (mostly motorcycles) and associated maintenance and oper-
ating expenses. At full development of the project, after four years, the
ratio of farmers receiving credit under the project to extension agents would
be about 130:1. This ratio is justified in view of the extension workers'
new responsibilities in preparing farm investment plans and sub-loan appli-
cations on the basis of a working arrangement between BNF and SEAG.
However, extension agents are not involved in credit collection, the
responsibility of which rests solely with the BNF. The effective intensity
in extension, however, would be lower since the agents would also advise
non-recipients of credit; if the total beneficiary farmers in the project
area are considered, the relationship would be about 400:1.
(c) Research. The 84-ha agricultural research station, established in
Chore with FRG aid, would be modestly expanded. Three new staff, in addition
to the existing staff of four, and laboratory equipment and one motorcycle



- 13 -
would be provided. Research would focus on adapting known crop varieties to
the project area. It would also improve crop/pasture rotations with a view
to recommending proven technical packages for the area.
(d) Burley Redrying and Threshing Plant. In view of the better
international price prospects for burley tabacco over the present variety
grown in this area, this plant would help support the change from growing
black to burley tobacco in the project area. Some 12 local Paraguayan firms,
which are in the business of exporting (black) tobacco, have expressed
interest in the possibilities for burley. The plant would reduce moisture
content of the leaves to around 13%, thereby ensuring their stability during
transport overseas and storage. The project would provide funds to enable
MAG either to join with private Paraguayan tobacco interests in investing in
a burley processing plant or to undertake the investment on its own with a
view to divest itself at a later date when a private party is secured. MAG's
participation would demonstrate to the private sector the Government's
resolve to promote the production and export of burley tobacco, and would
help alleviate the perceived difficulty of initiating production of this type
of tobacco by providing an outlet for its processing. MAG would establish,
or cause to be established, an entity to construct and operate the plant; the
plant specifications and the management arrangements would be satisfactory to
the Bank. The Government's record in promoting private sector involvement in
productive ventures is very consistent. MAG has undertaken to use its best
efforts to (i) seek participation from private investors on a majority basis
in the establishment of the entity; and (ii) divest itself in favor of
private investors, under terms satisfactory to the Bank, of its equity in the
entity, by the time the project is completed, i.e. June 30, 1987 (Section
3.01(h) of draft Loan Agreement). It would thus be a condition of
disbursement for the US$1.0 million allocated for this component that the
entity has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph
4(c) of Schedule 1 of draft Loan Agreement). However, if these arrangements
have not been secured by December 31, 1983, the Bank would cancel the funds
provided under the loan for this component (Section 2.01(b) and paragraph
5(b) of Schedule 1 of draft Loan Agreement). Similarly, in the event the
plant should be a private venture involving no public sector financing, this
component of the project would be cancelled from the loan.
39.       Infrastructure.  The focus of the project would be to provide road
and health facilities needed for the expanded project area, beyond those
mentioned in paras. 21 and 35 above. The facilities would be as follows:
(a) Roads. Around 45 km of existing secondary roads and 550 km of
existing feeder roads would be upgraded, and about 100 km of new feeder roads
would be constructed, to dry weather standards. The 14 km secondary link
between Chore and the "northern axis" road would be given an all-weather
surface. The improvements would allow increased trafficability, especially
during the wetter harvest season (January-April), although the roads should
still be closed during brief periods of inclement weather. To carry out
these works, the project would provide for: hiring of consultants to prepare
detailed designs and supervise construction of the roads; contracting local
firms to upgrade the secondary roads; purchasing road construction and
maintenance equipment by the Ministry of Public Works to upgrade and
construct the feeder roads, and to maintain these and secondary roads.
Equipment provided would be used initially for the construction of feeder
roads and thereafter solely for maintenance of all roads in the project area
(Section 3.04(c) of draft Loan Agreement). The all-weather Tacuara-Santa



- 14 -
Rosa road, a portion of the "northern axis" transport corridor, would fully
serve the project area which lies on both sides of the road north of
Tacuara. The Feeder Roads Unit of the Ministry of Public Works would be
responsible for the execution of the project roads. For several components,
such as extension and credit, improved access would be a prerequisite to the
preparation and implementation of farm development plans and, as a result,
increased production. Assurances were obtained at negotiations, therefore,
that the Ministry of Public Works would budget for and otherwise provide the
staff and funds necessary to enable the Feeder Roads Unit to adhere to the
roads component implementation schedule agreed with the Bank (Sections
3.01(a) and 3.04 (a) of draft Loan Agreement).
(b) Health Services. The Ministry of Health would be responsible for
constructing, equipping, staffing and operating 16 health posts and one
health center to be constructed under the project. This component, fits the
Government strategy supported at the national level by IDB and the Pan
American Health Organization, of providing basic health services in the rural
areas.  It would be closely coordinated with IDB and FRG assisted efforts in
the project area.  The project would include procurement of an ambulance and
16 mopeds, and supplies. Primary care workers would be trained locally to
provide preventive and curative care. The Ministry's Implementation Unit
(responsible for management, programming and evaluation) would be supported
with training programs abroad for key staff. This unit would oversee the
health component. Following arrangements similar to the Caazapa Area
Development Project, the Ministry's engineering unit would arrange for the
manufacture of the 6,600 latrine slabs and their delivery to the project
area. Families would be issued a latrine free of charge once a Rural
Sanitary Inspector (working under the Rural Water Supply Agency) has verified
that the family had properly dug a pit and constructed a shelter to house the
latrine. Assurances were obtained at ;iigotiations that the 6,600 placforms
would be manufactured only as justified by the rate of their successful
installation, i.e. once the family has constructed the necessary infrastruc-
ture referred to above (Section 3.05 of draft Loan Agreement).
40.        Institutional Development.  Key areas of support for this, and
ensuing rural development projects are as follows:
(a) Land Titling. Considerable delays have occurred in the provision
by IBR of titles for settlers under the FRG supported program referred to in
para 35. This was mainly due to the fact that no specific yearly titling
targets have been established and that IBR has not been provided with the
necessary infrastructure and support to carry out the titling drive
effectively. To date some 480 titles are available out of a target of 1,000
scheduled for project completion. In view of the critical relationship
between titling and credit,the Government has agreed that IBR will issue 750
titles in the settlements presently assisted by FRG in the project area as a
condition of effectiveness for the Bank loan (Section 6.01(b) of draft Loan
Agreement). The target of 1,000 titles for the FRG supported program should
be met no later than April 30, 1983 (Section 3.03(b) of draft Loan
Agreement). In keeping with IBR's commitment to provide these 1,000 titles
by the set date, 300 additional titles are expected to be provided in 1982.
Thus, the prospects of meeting the April 30, 1983 deadline are good; close
monitoring of progress will be ensured by staff provided under technical
assistance supported by FRG and the Bank. A further 3,500 titles, over and



- 15 -
above the 1,000 mentioned above, would be issued during the four-year project
implementation period. To support this overall titling effort, the project
would provide for IBR to hire additional staff, purchase, operate and
maintain vehicles, and construct branch offices in Chore and San Estanislao.
As for these 3,500 additional titles to be provided, IBR has agreed to the
following schedule: 750 titles would be issued each year, from 1983 to 1986
and 500 in the first half of 1987 (Section 3.03(c) of draft Loan Agreement).
In all cases, settlers would receive their titles upon down payment of at
least 10% of their land price (Section 3.03(a) of draft Loan Agreement).
To enable IBR to carry out this titling program, the project
includes all necessary facilities to assist this agency in its endeavor. In
addition, in the course of the processing of the proposed loan, IBR has
carried out a preliminary inventory of the land titling situation for the 32
colonies included in the project area based on information available at their
headquarters in Asuncion, so as to make a preliminary assessment of the land
tenancy situation in the project area, and plan an action program for
normalizing the tenure situation expeditiously. This has entailed
developing, with the assistance of a UNDP/Bank consultant, a system of land
records to handle the data and then preparing the actual inventory. This is
a first step in the action that IBR has been required to undertake in
regularizing and improving land tenure and occupancy in the project area.
Furthermore IBR would carry out and maintain an updated land occupancy and
inventory for all 32 colonies and would decentralize its records for the
project area, so that all active files would be maintained in the field
offices. The decentralized record keeping system would be operational by
December 31, 1983; while the final inventory would be completed by December
31, 1984. (Section 3.03(d) of draft Loan Agreement). Technical assistance
would be provided under the project to assist in this aim.
(b) Cooperative Development. The project would provide for two
staff, experienced in cooperative development, to work with two independent
cooperative organizations, presently in the area, in the promotion of coop-
eratives which would be supported under the project with 8 man-years of
technical assistance. Vehicles and their associated operating and mainte-
nance expenses would also be provided. FRG would continue to provide an
advisor in cooperative development, who, together with the Project Field
Coordinator, would supervise the work of the two staff.
(c) Strengthening of MAG's Planning Department. The project would
strengthen public investment planning, and project identification and pre-
paration work of MAG's Planning Department.   This work was initiated in
August 1980 when the Department contracted an agricultural economist advisor,
financed by UNDP as part of the Bank's Second Preinvestment Project (Loan
1780-PA).  The project would provide funds to enable MAG to recruit interna-
tionally an agricultural economist advisor for a further two years. In addi-
tion, 12 man-months of short-term technical assistance would be provided to
give back-up support to the advisor. Training courses and seminars for
Department staff would also be supported. In addition the Department would
be provided with expanded physical facilities, equipment and vehicles. An
evaluation officer would also be provided to enable MAG to assess the impact
of this and other Bank-financed rural development projects.



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
41.       Total project cost including contingencies, is estimated at US$40.9
million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, of which about US$24.0 million
or 59%, would be the foreign exchange cost. The Loan and Project Summary
provides a detailed breakdown of these costs. Project costs are based on
prices estimated to prevail in April 1982. Physical contingencies were
assessed at 10% of the base costs for civil works, vehicles and equipment.
Price contingencies were assessed as follows: for local costs: 15% p.a. for
CY 1983; 13% fo 1984; 12% for CY 1985 and 1986; and for foreign costs: 7.5%
p.a. for CY 1983-1985 and 6% for CY 1986.  For consulting services, the costs
per man-month are as follows: (i) for the Technical Advisor (4 man-years)
and advisors for MAG's Planning Department (3 man-years):  US$7,300; and (ii)
for the cooperatives experts (8 man-years, most likely local technicians):
US$600. For the roads component (for design and supervision of civil works):
US$1.6 million would be spent; in this case the average professional
man-month cost is about US$5,500.
42.       The financing of project costs, including contingencies, would be
shared in the following amounts: credit beneficiaries, US$1.2 million;
Government, US$11.8 million; BNF, US$5.5 million; and the Bank US$22.4 mil-
lion. The proposed Bank loan would finance the bulk of the foreign exchange
cost, including the front-end fee; for the burley plant the Government and/or
private parties would finance US$1.6 million in foreign exchange in addition
to the US$1.0 million provided by the Bank loan. It is expected that UNDP
may finance the project's technical assistance component; should this
materialize, the funds allocated for this purpose under the Loan would be
cancelled by a commensurate amount (Section 2.01(b)(ii) of draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Execution Arrangements
43.       The project would be ctarried out by those agencies that tradition-
ally have responsibility in Paraguay for the types of activity contemplated
under the project. BNF would be responsible for the agricultural credit
component. Similarly, MAG's extension service, SEAG, would carry out the
extension component and MAG's Department of Agricultural Research and
Forestry, the agricultural research component. In addition MAG would be
responsible for:(i) strengthening of its Planning Department and (ii) the
burley plant. IBR would be responsible for land titling and MOPC's Roads
Directorate, with the support of the Feeder Roads Unit, for the design,
construction and maintenance of the proposed roads. The Ministry of Health
would carry out the health services/latrine component.
44.       Coordination of the execution of the various components of this
project by the respective implementing agencies would be undertaken, as for
similar projects in the country, by the ONCP. Its final establishment, in a
manner, and with staff, satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01(d) of draft Loan Agreement).  The
ONCP, which as indicated in paragraph 23 is responsible to the CNFPA, is
headed by a Director, nominated by the CNFPA, and includes a General
Coordinator and Field Coordinators for each project.  The appointment of a
Field Coordinator, located in Chore, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness for the Bank
loan (Section 6.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement). Other ONCP staff include



- 17 -
personnel for financial control, programming and budgeting, and the
monitoring of the progress of projects.  The ONCP would maintain close
working relations with the various agencies responsible for carrying out the
respective project components. It would exercise overall financial control
and prepare annual work plans, including technical targets and budgets,
resulting from inputs of the various agencies, semi-annual progress reports
and a final project evaluation. The annual work plans with specific targets
would be sent to the Bank on a regular basis (Section 3.01(g)(ii) of draft
Loan Agreement), and the Director would bring unresolved issues to the
attention of the Minister of Agriculture, who, in turn, would present them
for resolution to the CNFPA.
45.       The Field Coordinator would be supported by an office
administrator, a bookkeeper and a statistical assistant. A Field Committee
would be established, which would comprise, in addition to the Field
Coordinator as Chairman, regional representatives of all implementing
agencies and a representative of the FRG aid program based in Chore. The
Field Coordinator would organize monthly meetings of the Committee, at which
progress of the project would be reviewed and problems resolved. Unresolved
problems would be brought to the attention of ONCP's Director in Asuncion.
The Field Coordinator would provide quarterly progress reports to the
Director, including up-to-date physical and expenditure data, and comparing
the results with established targets. The two cooperative development staff
would also be attached to the office of the Field Coordinator and report to
him. The project would include a Technical Advisor (for four years) to
assist the Field Coordinator throughout the project implementation period in
technical aspects related to extension and credit operations. The Advisor
would have its headquarters in Chore and would work closely with FRG
technical assistance personnel.
46.       Two force account teams would operate in the area, one based at
Chore and the other at the Ministry of Public Works' District Headquarters at
Tacuara.  Each team would be headed by a Roads Directorate  engineer.  To
oversee all road works financed under the project, the Feeder Roads Unit
would appoint a qualified engineer as Roads Coordinator. He would be based
in the project area, would report to the Unit, would liaise closely with the
Roads Directorate's District Chief Engineer and with consultants and
contractors working on the project, would prepare annual work programs and
progress reports for the component, and would represent Roads Directorate on
the Field Coordinating Committee.  Assurances have been obtained at
negotiations that the Roads Coordinator would have the responsibilities
outlined above (Section 3.01(f) of draft Loan Agreement).  His appointment
would be a condition of disbursement of funds under the roads construction
and related equipment components (paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 of draft Loan
Agreement).
47.       The design standards for the project roads are listed in Annex B to
Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement. Each year, the Feeder Roads Unit
would select sections of secondary roads to be constructed. These sections
would be grouped geographically such that each "group" would be suitable for
contracting to small- and medium-sized road construction firms. New
contracts for construction would be let each year, based on local competitive
bidding procedures. Roads to be constructed would be selected on the basis
of overall developments in the project area; these yearly programs would be
reviewed by the Bank. Assurances have been secured at negotiations that the



- 18 -
work plans for construction contracts would be satisfactory to the Bank, in
particular, that they would be closely coordinated with the execution of
other project components--paragraph 39(a) (Section 3.01(g)(ii) and Schedule
4,B,l of draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Extension agents would prepare land use plans for farmers applying
to BNF for credit. Each plan, which, upon approval of the sub-loan, would be
formalized in an agreement between the farmer, the extension service and BNF
would describe the practices that the farmer would agree to follow as well as
the contribution of each party to the farm development program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
49.       ONCP headquarters would include a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
to follow up progress of the project and to provide timely information to the
Director on the implementation of each component and the utilization of
funds. The officer would work closely with the Field Coordinator whose
statistical assistant and bookkeeper would be responsible for assembling the
monitoring data at the field level. The officer would also initiate periodic
sample surveys, e.g. of household consumption, crop yields, farming systems
or adoption rates of recommended technologies, which would be designed to
assist both ongoing and ex-post asessment of project impact which would be
the responsibility of MAG's Planning Department. The Field Coordinator would
provide quarterly reports to the Director of ONCP, and the Director would
prepare six-month progress reports, which would be submitted to CNFPA and
copied to the Bank (section 3.06 of draft Loan Agreement). A Project
Completion Report would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after
project investments had been completed.
On-lending Arrangements and Interest Rates
50.       The proceeds of the Bank loan earmarked for credit would be on-lent
by the Government to BNF on terms similar to the Bank loan, except that the
interest rate would be 0.5% higher so as to cover for the foreign exchange
risk. Experience with previous Bank-supported credit operations has shown
that this interest rate differential is sufficient for the purpose.  BNF's
sub-loans would bear fixed interest and other charges at a rate of 18% per
annum during the lifetime of the subloans; with an amortization period of up
to 10 years including up to 3 years of grace (Section 2.08 of draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and BNF). This rate is positive in real terms and
covers BNF's administrative costs (inflation in 1981 was 12%). BNF would
review once a year, or more often if requested by the Bank, and if necessary
modify the interest rate and commission charges on new subloans and all other
medium and long-term loans made by BNF's agricultural department with locally
generated funds, so that they would maintain a positive real interest rate
vis-a-vis the annual internal inflation rate as measured by the variation of
the Consumer Price Index for the previous calendar year.  If these
consultations fail to produce an agreement within the following 180 days, BNF
would abstain from making any further commitment out of the proceeds of the
loan until such agreement is reached (Section 2.08 of draft Project
Agreement). The relending terms would be embodied in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and BNF and would be satisfactory to the
Bank. Signing of this Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness



- 19 -
(Section 6.01(a) of draft Loan Agreement). This approach concerning interest
rates charged by BNF is in keeping with other agricultural projects in
Paraguay.
51.       Through the two Bank-financed industrial credit projects, the Bank
has supported an overall program of institutional development for BNF.  BNF's
portfolio quality has been a serious issue, and the program has led BNF to
take appropriate remedial actions. The Bank has attempted to assist BNF in
solving its difficulties in a number of ways. First, by relying upon the
loan agreements as monitoring tools for following up progress in reducing the
total level of arrears. Under the first industrial credit project, the loan
was divided in two portions, with withdrawal requests for the second portion
being processed upon meeting certain debt recovery targets, reduction of
operating costs, and reaching a minimum level of effective interest rates.
This process helped BNF to uncover previously unreported arrears and to
reduce overdues to a level below 19%. Under the second industrial credit
loan, the Bank agreed to disburse only after BNF had reduced its arrears on
larger loans (with arrears over G 2 million) by G 1,100 million (US$8.7 mil-
lion). The target has been met, and a new debt recovery plan is being moni-
tored closely. Second, through technical assistance and support, the Bank
has attempted, with some success, to help improve BNF's management. Third,
BNF's ability to make and supervise its loans at the field level needs to be
strengthened, in particular for its agricultural lending activities. In sup-
port of this, provision has been included in the Caazapa Area Development
Project for BNF to hire a consultant in agricultural credit policies and
operations.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       The upgrading of project area secondary roads (US$2.3 million), as
well as the construction contracts for the road maintenance shop in Chore
(US$0.16 million), and the IBR offices in Chore and San Estanislao (US$0.17
million) would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank. Bids for the road works would be solicited
annually and separate contracts awarded based on the works included in each
annual work plan. These procedures would facilitate bidding participation by
several small local firms. Under these arrangements, foreign parties would
not be precluded from participating in the bidding process. The upgrading
and construction of feeder roads, as well as the maintenance of these and
secondary roads (US$7.05 million), would be undertaken by MOPC's Roads
Directorate by force account given the straightforward nature of the works
involved. The equipment for the force account work (US$2.5 million), as well
as the contracts for the construction of the health posts and center (US$0.72
million), would be procured by international competitive bidding. Other
equipment, because of the modest amounts involved, would also be procured
following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Construction of the latrines (US$0.08 million) to be undertaken on a phased
basis to meet demand (paragraph 39(b) would be carried out by force account
by the Ministry of Health. The construction of the burley plant, including
buildings, equipment and ancillary facilities (US$2.7 million), would be
procured through a single contract on a turnkey basis under the Bank's
guidelines which call for international competitive bidding procedures.



- 20 -
53.       The requirements for vehicles, to be purchased by each agency
(US$0.44 million), would be procured through local competitive bidding. When
possible, however, the requirements would be grouped so as to make the
quantities sufficiently large to attract bids from foreign firms. On-farm
production items, and miscellaneous equipment and supplies (US$8.20 million),
would be procured by smallholder sub-borrowers and participating agencies
from local dealers, who represent many international and domestic suppliers.
There are no foreign exchange or other restrictions on any of the items that
would be financed under the project. Consultant services (US$2.23 million,
including civil works consultants), would be contracted in accordance with
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Their qualifications and experience, as
well as terms of reference, would have to be satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.02 of draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a
period of five-and-a-half years, up to the amounts set for the various proj-
ect components, as follows:  (a) 55% of amounts disbursed by BNF for subloans
to project beneficiaries; (b) 60% of expenditures for civil works; (c) 100%
of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures for vehicles, road con-
struction and maintenance equipment; (d) 50% of expenditures for other equip-
ment, supplies and furniture; (e) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting
services and training and 50% for consulting services if procured locally;
and (f) 37% of foreign expenditures for construction of the burley plant.
For the agricultural credit component and for road works and construction of
latrines under force account, the Bank would disburse against verified
statements of expenditure.
Benefits
55.       The major contribution of the project would be to increase agricul-
tural production through improved technology, infrastructure and services.
Thereby, family farm labor would be more productively and fully utilized and
farm incomes would be enhanced accordingly. It is estimated that at full
development, the increase in exports resulting directly from the project
would have a value of around US$15 million per year (1981 prices).
56.       The overall economic rate of return, based on all project costs
excluding health investments, is estimated at about 19%. It is based on net
benefits accruing to on-farm investments by 3,500 credit beneficiaries under
the project and on associated overhead costs of infrastructure, including
roads, extension, research, land titling, cooperative development, and
project administration. Benefits not included in the above estimate would
include, for example, increased mobility in the area (improving school
attendance and the availability of social services), and added security from
land titles (encouraging longer-term planning for on-farm investments). For
the health component, the economic return on investment was not quantified
because of the impossibility of assigning a monetary value to health benefits
stemming from this activity. However, the health effort represents the least
cost solution and provides reasonable levels of service for Paraguayan
standards. The project would still generate a 12% rate of return, equivalent
to the level deemed to be the opportunity cost of capital of the country,
even under the most unfavorable set of assumptions: (a) investment costs
increased by 86%; (b) operating costs increased by 23%; or (c) benefits fell
by 9%.



- 21 -
Project Risks
57.       The major risks asso.-ated with project implementation would relate
to the effectiveness of project management and interagency coordination,
timely implementation of the roads and land titling components, and construc-
tion of the proposed burley plant. Potential problems of coordination and
management should be minimized as a result of the Government's establishment
of the ONCP, which is managed at a sufficiently high level to ensure that
participating agencies implement their components as planned. Timely imple-
mentation of the roads component would depend largely on sound physical and
budgetary planning by a new Feeder Roads Unit established in 1981 within MOPC
(which is being supported with technical assistance by the Bank-financed
Sixth Highways Project - Loan 1736-PA). Similarly, adherence to the proposed
schedule for issuing land titles would depend on effective planning and
commitment of sufficient staff and staff support for the operation. With the
assurances obtained, and the technical assistance and facilities made avail-
able under the project for IBR, this risk is being minimized. Notwithstand-
ing the interest expresed by private firms in participating in the construc-
tion of a burley plant, such participation cannot be guaranteed. However,
the encouraging international demand for burley, the commitment of MAG for
this activity, and the substantial seed financing included in the project
should ensure the establishment of the plant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National
Development Bank (BNF) and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the Loan are being listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following are the special conditions of effectiveness: (a) a
Field Coordinator, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank
has been appointed; (b) A subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Government and BNF, has been signed; (c) at least 750 titles
have been provided to settlers by IBR for the FRG-supported program; and
(d) the ONCP has been formally established in a manner and with staff satis-
factory to the Bank. In addition, conditions of disbursement would be as
follows:  (a) for the roads construction and related equipment components,
that the Roads Coordinator has been appointed; and (b) for the burley plant,
that the entity in charge of the plant has been established by MAG in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President                          I
By Ernest Stern
April 19, 1982
Attachments



- 23 -                                     Annex 1
Page 1
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEfAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            406.8                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     162.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                  250.0       390.0    1070.0                 1616.2                   2609.1
LNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       85.0       166.6     251.1                1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PoPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1774.0       2301.0    2974.0
UhbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6         37.1      39.1                  64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATIUN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        5.1
STATIONARY POPVLATION (MILLIONS)                          9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2080
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        4.4          5.7       7.3                  34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      12.0        15.0      17.8                  94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.9         46.0      44.4                  40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                         50.8         50.7      52.2                  55.3                      61.5
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3          3.3       3.4                   4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6/c        2.6/c     2.9                   2.4                       1.5
URBAN                              2.9          3.1       3.4                   3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42.8         40.4      38.1                  31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0         9.3       7.9                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2          3.1       2.7                   2.3                       1.6
FAM4ILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..      26.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..      15.5
.FOOL AND NUTRITION
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          94.0        103.0     114.0                 108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
;ALORILS (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  109.0        121.0     122.0                 107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          71.0         77.0      80.0                  65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0         42.0      46.0                  34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.3          9.8       6.9                   7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0         61.2      64.3                  64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        64.0        ..                  70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PoPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         11.0      13.0                  65.7
URBAN                               ..         22.0      25.0                  79.7
RURAL                                           5.0       5.0                  43.9
ACGESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          6.0      10.0                  59.9
URBAN                               ..         16.0      28.0                  75.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1804.7      2249.3    2151.7                1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURS1NG PERSON          ..      2221.0    2258.0                1288.2                    896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            430.0        600.9     695.0                 471.2                    262.3
URbAN                               ..        361.5     282.0                 558.0                    191.8
RkURAL                               *-      5506.3    6260.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                    ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5/d       5.41e
URBAN                              5.37         5. o7;i
RURAL                              5. 7f/r      5. 77;
AVEhAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6/d        2.4/e
URbAN                               2. 673'     1. 77;i
R(URAL                              ..          3.1/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              13.0/d      17.5/e
URBAN                              33.2/d      41.5/e
RURA'                               1.27d       1.27;i



- 24 -
Annex 1
M-
PAkAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9is
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOKE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0         88.0/f    85.0/f                101.7                    105.9
MALE                 105.0        91.07f    87.07?                103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                90.0        86.07      84.07                101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        17.0       25.0                  35.3                     66.3
MALE                  11.0        17.0       26.0                  34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                11.0        17.0       25.0                  35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (5 OF SECONDARY)   7.0           6.0        6.0                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0         28.0      28.0                   29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                           8.0         11.0       12.0                  15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PgRCENT)         75.0/d      81.1       84.0                  80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          6.6        7.0                  42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         82.4         73.4      66.7                  215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        14.8      19.6                   89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        43.0       38.9                  62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       576.7        728.0     955.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.7         21.4      23.3                   22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0         52.6      49.5                   35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         19.2      19.4                  23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5         31.6       32.1                  31.8                     42.3
MALE                                 51.7         50.0      49.3                   49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                               13.9         13.5      15.0                   14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.6        1.5                   1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTrE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     260.0                 513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     260.0                 362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      19.0                    ..                        ..                                            X
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Esttmate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration of Paraguayans to neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e 1972;  /f Net enrollment.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates, to be shown in the 1981
World Bank Atlas, are $1,340 (at 1979-80 prices) and 3062 thousand, respectively.
May, 1981



- 25 -                                                                                              Annex 1
D5rIJITIONt Of SOCIAL LZSiCfTO5S
totes   Although ohtte - ,at   ar   Ire  fto  sourc. genarilyjde             ms   obrtttendrlA ,i   houldalso  bentd that they may men he  mtg--
ntoalycmpobebe othla    fsaaaded dsfiniion- sodI-  ooopts asS  by dltferotcontia .                                    to. L oIsig  ohs dots.  TVe dat   o,as
t    -ie .unfol to descr ibe odleo   of eaitods.  'dit.,. tread, endobrteiactonmjrdfrnesewenoure.
of  oosojec  covry(toep  fr  Cpioltoplos Oil fpree   group eSer  'Midl  Lsto-   Srth..Aroos en  triddis L.t Is 1  these  beta  of  -nr.ge
soot - 1otua-ffioitI..).  En the rtsrnc   goP daft thI aeags  r  roplaio eiglt-d erithtni  sIne- for oat.h tadicuto  se  sa-    ly them
maoityo  ohs countiest           ruphsft  for that iodicator..  Otoc  the covarag  of tonrtsea   hetdcetor                                 I dese    o  h   eolhi.bliny of dn
eod is  ot oniorm, oottot  ost besnercisd  it rletoogavmraat of rn tndionor toanttha.  Th-o  aesraes arehnly qefut isoowI otg  she  s.I- o
LAND inlitetot :, sttm     mogteconr   ndrfrec    rus
T04 ...01 -Thoueo,mdi,  ..   I                          . tqkm(ooltio adOsptl; ted -  oe,ubt,                                                        nodM  =rl - Popeatas  toal
Toa E-tta   or  cses.cepiig    dd rn  otbod   oer.che.an   oot  drde   y  bo  oeeots    m    o   oatulbt
GNP PfR CAPITA (Uil) -Go  po Icapita stlttat Coro_a  marke   prcs   a-                                 dial tor  or  Sot Sboloded. Zatru  heptl, p-dr, Innae helth
cuinted by s-   o--rito   method as torld Sank Atlas (1977-79 busts); 1.60,                          and  sStlooseerPeom-tl  staffs by.  a phyoto I   (hat hy
1970, nod 1979 dat.-                                                                                  ad oal asIstn.          _oe  midwife, Int I thob eff.r In---pimt n
softlY CONSUMTttI 05P    APS  Inoa  Iotmto   f toscu   ooy(olticol Ioooonoboh-nPitui  t-arld   WHOt poittipo.(gaeeo  heaitas,
sodliot.petolum   oroa.. ga  nd hydr-, ouolsr nod getora  slot-                             no   ua    optL                   - oo   rrrl heaPital-.s  e  msiol en-al gmt
trtoy `sAtooa- 0  coa  aqtialent Per- t.pitt; 1960. 190   r  17                               stta        postadhitti   o               ole    tyus5   od
d.I.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmhSPitaLs divdedb the nrao of bets.                                                                          ., I
POPULAkTION AND0 VITAL. STATISTICSOd`i:1-IdLV 1bf
Too   doonlo.91Ya  (hosl) - As of JolY 1; 1960. 1970. aud 1979                                 004J7010G
data 0veross Sts ofZSutahOidt(srsuo - R                                                                                                      hoosaIfdl -.totn. -t1ue.as steal
dirb f:Poul    fiolleco   fttl)-ttoo   ra  t   oa    ooit                                           AhoanId'oo.stteo  n  ru If tettalawosar   S                                 tg mno
diffarent dftototoos  f orbsI caes   may  ffttc~rblt   fdt                                   o   hi   aoaus        ore   rSda   a  0myuth   sltd
am'aug copint   196 1 1970, C     td 1979 dat,                                                     the"hoo9ohoid tot pt: nttit_    oup-    s
PooolttooProfotioo                                                                 tonass  obsr  f ooannnsot rse -tota. nobn.Ist rual - onoaa as
toe    ouaitb   g   o   s   r  termr,iyadtrityrts                                               desltog, retsrtvrS.Ositg    aSd  an-psmataeeowaa
me Irafo  fertlity   osas   oetraleesnset   eln   iv                                        ofh.  toa. ohr  ndrrl  wlts                 sootsy
fertilitY according toCitooni-evel aol pst family-IosoiIt pat o..Po,s
tehcutry Os that .asIand00o  tee':               oaiait  o    aolty                    iIAtt
the birth rats Is sua  t  tie deahrtIto-lote  g                       otursiro-                   soolmn  of a.tlt   e   tteptsytvla   scaae   frass
meisIo o     mIt Is ahieved ouly after- fart- ity rae  decIn to                         prfar  t,hot-t  po latne   oma IudaoritG.aedhi
the raplecemeo  1one  of cut Iost. rerootio   rte. obsomat  o               aICn                  yerLu dotdfrdfaenlegh   fpiayeuatt   o
In  heyar  00. to   t_ ae   f o Ios of fetily rate no r.plaos-                                  PocoudaY school - tti   ae  n    ai 1- Cear -tt.an ubos  aere
-iono      o tn th                              i_~P.rducn, tiooreqtrgsat  dleas  four 1-otf a f aPprove  prImary tate_iw
2t00otbatrrcId.osttyofIto1  ysr  o  as  noosonat   -roea   ore gP--li
Poruletion lensiir                                                            taolude~~~~~~~~S ...d.   CI   _tlb
Per so.   b... nroloa   ad-Csie    sooefrarotoo .uid.enly-or c  ds pe...                                                   t  o IIIear  toate~Itelons.,rly  --
roPly;16.  90alt90dtaioiltnhr  ai   or-itro1sd tto1adyo - Tota  onadeat  farshot Ia
M7 er)  id rtied(6  yearst,. at   vr   sprtsae    fsporpp--oosodu    ees
iantoo; 1960  19709. and 1979 fata .                                                             Adlt ts       rtasletst       ioot   dlaful   omd  n    is
Portutoniroob  at  trrosnt- tta -I' onuou  frowt  raltetlof total   d-                           aeperogto  to.talourprlns   gd1   sr   n   vs
reor 160 po970ti for19780-h.. 1960-70h. aid 197i0-79d
Crud ytirth Out Iroi, ni dso -l     Iouu    Ptin   birth  pen. thousid ofni-rertr,erio  esto   i    peron; sobyo -b hleSe  baots  a
poution;19, 1960, 1970  aol 199.aa,miiar..tol
CrdeDethp an   oe  hosrd Goiualdeathtpar  hooad  of en-yarto1O tev,tdoe  thoaan .....nLtion   - Alt. tybla of reiva-                                                          arrai
popuatit; 160  1970 _, ad17   aa                                                              brdadcsts 9genera  p            dbic  rtl nn  ot, poeaIon  aol.t    n
toliy  rtes  usullyflo-rear- e1reasdigI   90.17.ad  990aercutue  hlse   lonig
oild s.to Rie  aome  i                   tame..age grotp-,-,olitioo of "diCly   esa   nuen                                                     wppr   aie   sapruia
11= 1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                             ~pbtiaindrthdprmsild t                             A-todto   genarat fnoe .. it_ te I toidra
IIf0 000 OhtITII                                                                                   to  e  daily' tLin lpc.or  at tene  f           If ieaWIak
hl-loeofoo   PrdotorrCto   16-10(-idtr   r   alunuCineadnaoIAtTuats  ottatoto  Ta -.l   Ioted ente  tdro
teel arP ocuel.torgaeordcco  of eachcouttr  teI~                    base  0079                Yl.AO   PtmIt
per day   boatlais sopy its coptise dmestic  roduotio, iopoos lossottoompralle;  960P,190,und 179 dots
household-lbnl;  9101   tl  odt77It,197.                                                              o  197  Oats.
va   upyo  fod  o  ly    Nb oryo   odis- 1sf tne1 asubo. to-utotrtaro.tda  tonl, ale  nod female laho  fort. a
qonwos  o   l   outtsseatssd  yOl   roiefr'iiElaretgsofttl,  aeadfecepplaloo  altsreItisy
o1  lloosdeo-  lrotso   totl pociop           arsao         Nrnofvnaod                            90 -97C.cllO9tt            .    hesae   asdnIptt  stiopooora
pODAN Ulse IpIONc   fothI   ne   hclheola   rnO.Teosod                                             reflect ion agoat  stuour  of  tepuItton  ad  log tms  reo.
ordeoroF..  Ploorttoh-        eofIoaactta   potttvlloatio eeecea"ar   f-o1ioa-rro
World roo  Survey;1961-15,1970 aid1077 Into                  to  the  on3-d laorhforce
Per ruita ortoin ttoly foo anIal aolotlee    ProneyBsy -y f        .oo  do-bl                                          -1d-                    .ft -.C-
trio  Va ., dio d. fro    life  tolt;il0   19                 I.o 199 bt.                        ofhraeode
LiatPrceooo  tcisaa                        I Aceon   ou 6b5 of 7 yoat  of lif  rdmtolo           TheO folleonstets                srepoooo    aarsfpvrylot,
etI birth;  1990, 1970 o-d 179 Outo-ao   ehool-d-he  ttrrod ot   os lrteot  y
lulni  octlio  Oue fot hooeol   -  nnul dunf e o _tot ante ,I fo-o on1or               t_1tr    ncuePcao   noeLne   Olrttrta    ohrad ro
of age      .~I-I   . per r.,oussodq.lIre bioa.Ieluoposo   icmals   Is  btha.Ct dtotm    o    betdouh at to
locese to Safe  utot trercoot  f oocoluOtool-tit.                                                           C.o,t1rcl-tc-  urtoalaruo I tf  yua  onootolvtfi   eurmtai 
ho   f  epe ittl, ohl n  o-Pi-C- ruru- odol ronoeld.otos  nosaf                             offorabIIo
ese Iupy dtcoe   otoo    uftotrao   nrao  hoc ototoppL             td mttdaoo1 totuou -o teoto  rocnn1lcoa  ocl  0 rr9apta -f                            ohtat  ua 
oie tctetorto    roetdorhlo   sprints.                ib astoyolsa                      turarr-oiotoenicmaoeo                        n-tidfeOg    oopt
of  thei  nespAOnbo coudotoc       foaunhoocourbil
focotoon or  lthoPn   oor  000                 ilogiell odttI.  --J)tetmaoho  forhar  cs   floigt   rhaaet
oooailerel te heing oitbio  trotorutl _ tcoa  of chot1 tooe dInurl ht:uI              nottouto  IPrcotlocloc       , t .... ..rlt  Po.... cn  Lr    osoo)    ra
resnstotoaocdbornotte  oootoorover   f  h   oodol                                           olnoi1 orooofp9coln   uhodo rrl)oonn    btlt
iootcnseoolyccoiot                    an(oralfrhtole7on
Ioetby'i
Actoastotocceto  larosul   r00000  I oooo7ttdc. ooo. urno. od ttal.
fduhertpopl(ooaouc1o.urlurut   snrdheocrt19iro0lo
PLYtevteuotnbccear.  ntsa   o   i    nct..ao-                                                                                     rnecn   Oocul  ttot-OeOO
60 oollcoo        IfIooDAp                                                                                                                          100.1160  If,,.
rorulot too retPloyecccor - fouluccoc dtriua  Ir cuoso  f cucltot  yOt
ctuosqoulftelfrouoedltlochcolouolr yoInrlotr-l.
Porulotiot rot Oureine Otreoc - to tulatoon Otoldod by noohor of yroctOclr.g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    1  :iII   d  :W'.."~ %llT 97,   d  97
malraolsmalogodcuooorton.   ratttclb  IorasI,b00d



_ 26 -
ECONOMIC INDICATOIS                                                            ANNEX I
Population:     3.3 mill lon (1981)1/1                                                                                                                Page 4
GNP Per Capita: USS1,340 (1980)   /I
IndIcator                                              Amount                 Average Annual Increase (S1          Share of GOP at Market Prices 15)
(million US$ current)          (at constant 1977 prIces)                  (et current prices)
1980-    1981 /I         1965-70   1970-75   1975-80         1965    1970    1975    1980    1981
NatIonal Accounts
Gross domestIc product (At factor cost)            3,B11   4,131              4.4        6.2       10.4        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                     1,123   1,342               1.6        6.1        7.2         36.7   32.1    36.9    30.9    29.5
Industry                                          B76      911              6.0       6.5        15.3        18.1   19.6    19.6    22.7    23.0
Services                                        1,812   1,878               6.1        6.2       10.6        45.2    48.3    43.5    46.4    47.5
ConsumptIon                                       3,055   3,301               4.1        3.7       10.2         86.1    85.7    76.7    78.0    78.0
Gross Investment                                   1,038   1,218              6.0       15.8       20.0         15.1    14.7    24.1    28.8    29.0
Exports of goods and NFS                             701     672              3.8       12.1       12.2         16.1    16.0    16.8    20.0    16.0
Imports of goods and NFS                          1,265  1,325                3.9        5.8       19.8        17.2    16.4    17.6    33.0    32.0
Gross domestic savings                               473     555              5.3       25.0       11.4         13.9    14.3   23.3    20.0   20.0
Amonunt              Average Annual Increase (%)       Composition of MerchandIse Trade 151
Imillion US$ current)          (at constant 1977 prices)               (at current prIces)
1980     1981 /1          1965-70   1970-75   1975-80        1965    1970    1975    1980    1981
MerchandIse Trade
Merchandise exports                                 630      598              3.6       16.4        9.6
Merchandise Imports                                1,087   1,030              5.3        6.0       19.9        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
rood                                               24       33             -1.7     -10.7        19.4        10.9      8.2     3.3     2.2     3.2
0etroleum                                         130       95             11.0        1.9        7.5         8.5      8.1    14.4    11.9     9.2
Machinery and equipment                            80      173             -0.5       14.0       13.8        26.7    24.2    22.2      7.4    16.8
Other                                             853      729              3.0       19.0       20.1        53.9    59.5   60.1    78.5    70.8
1975       1976       1977       197S        1979        1980       1981
Prices end Terms of Trade
GOP deflator (1977=100)                          87.2        91.6      100.0       110.4      133.1      155.5       160.0
Exchange rate tG/USSI                           126.0       126.0      126.0       126.0      126.0      126.0       126.0
Export prIce Index                               72.3        75.5      100.0       95.4        98.1      105.4       108.9
Import price Index                               98.3       92.4       100.0      110.3       126.0      137.1      130.2
Terms of trade Index                             73.6        81.7      100.0       86.5        77.9       76.9        83.6
As S of GOP
tlt current prIces)
1965       1970       1975       1979        1980      .1981
Public Finance (Central Administration)
Current revenue                                  10.4        11.7        9.4        10.1        9.4        9.6
Current expenditure                               8.4        10.2        7.6        6.7         7.6        8.3
Surplus (+t or deficit (-)                        1.9         1.5        1.8        3.4         1.6        1.3
Capital expenditure                               1.7         1.9        2.3         2.8        2.3        2.5
Financing (net)                                  -0.2         0.4        0.5        -0.6        1.1        2.1
1965-70     1970-75    1975-80    1980-85
Other Indicators
GNP gro.th rate (S)                               4.4         7.0       10.5         9.3
GNP per capita qrovth rate 1I1                     1.7        4.1        7.6         6.4
ICOR                                              2.9         2.4        2.4        3.0
Marginal savings rate                            27.3        53.0       24.5        23.4
Import elasticity                                 1.1         1.0        1.9        1.8
/1  Estimate.
'Current guaranles converted at 146.1 per USS, based on estim,ating that 60% and 40S transactions take place
in the free and the official exchange markets, respectively.
Sources: Central Bank of Paraguay, IMF and misslon estimates.
April 9, 1982



- 27 
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                Annex I
(millIon USS at current prices)                                                       Page 5
Population:      3.3 million 119811 /1
GNP Per Capita: US$1,340 (1980)   /1
Actual                              /1                      ProJected
1976       1977       1978       1979     1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods and services                 -172.6    -190.8    -343.6    -434.4    -565           -663       -634       -629       -601       -539
Exports of goods and services                    237.0      409.2      503.3      661.1      778        762      1,253      1,541      1,895     2,331
lports of goods and services                    409.6      600.0      846.9   1,095.5   1,343        1,425      1,887     2,170      2,496      2,870
Net transfers                                        4.2         1.2        5.8        7.3      14         16         17         19         21         23
Current account balance                           -168.4    -189.6    -337.8    -427.2    -551           -647       -617       -610       -580       -516
Direct private Investment                           11.4       17.0        21.9      51.9       30         65         69         76         84         92
M & LT loans net                                    64.0      121.9      134.9      111.0      123        109        158        250        366        448
Official                                          50.0       47.6       89.6       38.9      110         99         68         76         75         80
Private                                           14.0       74.3       45.3       72.1       13         10         90        173        292        368
Other capital                                      143.1      159.6      349.7      432.8      565        518        350        300        200        100
Change In reserves I- = Increase)                  -50.1    -108.9    -168.7    -168.5    -167            -45         40        -16        -70       -124
International reserves                             161.5      269.4      438.1      606.6      774        819        779        795       865        989
Reserves s months of lnports                         4.7         5.4       6.2        6.6        6.9        6.9         5.0       4.4        4.2        4.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT  IPublic A Private)
Gross Disbursements                                 74.0      142.1      163.5      216.5      206.0
~oncessloral loans                                30.7       26.9       38.3       21.1       34.0
DAC                                             10.4        4.6       28.4        5.8        -
IDA                                             2.6         5.2        5.3        3.6        2.9
Other                                           17.7       17.1        4.6       11.7       31.1
Non-concesslonal loans                            43.3      112.2      108.7      136.1      111.5
Official export credits                          9.5        8.1       10.1       29.2       16.5
IBRD                                             4.b        s.9        7.8       16.4       30.1
Other multilateral                               -          -          9.6        4.3        4.1
Private                                         29.2       97.3       81.2       86.2       60.8
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                 2811.2     394.7      543.1      BqR.6      818.1
OfficIal                                     236.8      335.2     457.3       560.5     667.3
Private                                       44.4       59.5       85.8      138.1      150.8
Undisbursed debt                               181.1      150.2      215.7      489.0      414.4
Debt servIce
Total service payments                          31.3       42.6       50.4       93.7      134.1
Interest                                      9.6       12.7       18.2       34.7       51.0
Payments as % exports                           13.2       10.4        9.9       14.2       17.2
Average lnterest rate on new loans 1%)
Official                                         5.6        6.6        6.6        6.5        5.6
Private                                          8.4        7.5       10.3        8.4       12.6
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                        23.7       20.2       23.3       21.1       26.2
Private                                          7.0        7.2        8.4       10.7       12.6
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
MaturitIes due within 5 years                                                     71.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                    89.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due wIthIn first year                                                     6.7
/1  Estimate.                                                                                                                              April 9, 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (March 31, 1982)
-------(US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower         Purpose                Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Nine loans and seven credits fully disbursed 1/               50.3   45.8
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies          -    4.0         .8
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education              8.0      -         .3
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II        22.0      -       15.6
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit           10.0      -         .9
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply           6.0      -        1.5
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                  33.0      -        4.5
1674           1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development             25.0       -        8.1
1736          1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                  39.0      -       32.4
1780          1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II               5.0       -        5.0
1866          1980    Paraguay   Industrial Credit and
Regional Development   31.0        -       30.7
1979          1981    Paraguay   Livestock Development    30.0          -       21.5
1992           1981    Paraguay   Rural Primary Education  17.0         -       16.9
2014           1981    Paraguay   Second Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation  11.8        -       11.8
2087 2/        1982    Paraguay   Caazapa Area Development 31.0                 31.0
Total (net of cancellations)                  319.1   49.8      181.0
of which has been repaid                     15.5    1.8
Total now outstanding                         303.6   48.0
Amount sold                        1.3
of which has been repaid         1.3          0.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    303.6   48.0
Total undisbursed                                               181.0
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Not effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - March 31, 1982
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                       Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing          4.4       1.0       5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)       Hotel Development        0.9       0.3       1.2
1982    Golondrina S.A.             Agricultural
Development          5.0       2.0       7.0
Total gross commitments                             10.3       3.3     13.6
Cancellation, sales, repayment
and terminations                                  (4.4)    (1.0)    (5.4)
Net held by IFC                                      5.9      2.3       8.2
Total undisbursed                                    5.3      2.0       7.3



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1982
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. 1/
The entire amount of the credit is now committed. Substantial
progress on the institution building side has been accomplished on the basis
of experience gained under this project, which led to the preparation of
a second operation, now under execution. The closing date was extended a
second time from December 31, 1981 to September 30, 1982 to permit making
final payments to study consultants and to complete the technical assistance
program provided to the government.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983).
The project is progressing well even though disbursements for subloans
and infrastructure are behind schedule. With regard to the subloans the 1981
lending season was hampered by the participation of the extension/credit agents
in the agricultural census. This work was required to be carried out in August
and September which are also the peak months for loan request applications. The
infrastructure disbursements will be accelerated since construction of the
community centers, health facilities and the first section of the all weather
road have begun. Advertisments for bids for the second and third stages of the
all weather road were published in December 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, which was achieved in part due to a reduction in
operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a capital contribution of
¢ 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan. BNF's debt recovery
efforts have been contributing lately in decreasing the portfolio arrears.
Institutional improvements, on the other hand, a UNDP-financed Bank-executed
technical assistance program was instrumental in accelerating institutional
improvements. Regarding the financing of industrial projects under the
Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 50 subprojects thus comitting the
bulk of the loan; disbursements, however, were running somewhat behind
schedule.
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
Project execution is proceding at a good rate. It is estimated that
the project will be completed by September 1982. Disbursements, as of March 31,
1982, amounted to US$4.5 million. The new project (under Loan 2014-PA) has
been designed so as to cover new areas with both water supply and sanitary
facilities; special emphasis is being placed on the southeastern part of the
country.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route 1 (Paraguari-Encarnacion, 303 km),
on the basis of a revised pavement design, were completed in July 1981.
Construction works on the Coronel Oviedo-San Estanislao road are well underway;
completion is scheduled for late 1982.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984).
Three of the components of this project have been completed. Fondo
Ganadero has disbursed all funds, the wholesale market has been completed and
is functioning. Final disbursement request should be received soon. The
Agricultural Census has been carried out and data are being analyzed. In each
of these components the technical assistance programs financed with loan
funds and UNDP funds are continuing. The small farm component is behind
schedule but a full complement of extension and credit agents is in the field.
Construction of feeder roads should begin in March 1982; meanwhile maintenance
of existing roads is being carried out.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Government has engaged consultants to assist the establishment
of the Feeder Roads Unit; the Unit was officially created in late November 1981.
The Government's Feeder Roads Coordinating Committee has been established by
Decree. The designs of feeder roads will be carried out by consultants to be
engaged shortly. Contracts have been awarded for the construction of the two
sections of Route 6; works are well underway.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984).
The key technical assistance advisors located in various sectoral
ministries and agencies, and in the new Financial Programming Division of the
Ministry of Finance, have been appointed, and are well advanced with their work.
While preinvestment studies involving over 25% of the funds under the project
have been approved by the government for financing under this loan, only one
subproject has reached the stage of execution so far.
Loan 1866-PA   Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, Junle 26, 1980; (Date of Effectiveness: June 1,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985).
Execution of the project has been slow. Commitment and disbursement
are behind schedule. There are now much better prospects that the Fondo
Especial de Desarrollo (FED) component will be implemented effectively. FED
expects to meet the corresponding conditions of disbursement within the next
1-2 months. BNF intends to increase the use of Bank resources during 1982.
BNF's institutional development process has advanced satisfactorily. While the
different components for its institutional development are at different imple-
mentation stages, there is a positive attitude and decision in BNF to implement
several changes and recommendations. To obtain this, BNF has established a
second-stage technical assistance program (building up on the technical assistance
hitherto provided under a UNDP Program) financed with own funds. BNF also has
advanced satisfactorily in improving its debt collection efforts. Regarding the
management training component, Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP)
is initiating the corresponding activities.  The feasibility study for the
industrial estate in Encarnacion, a feature of the project's regional emphasis
on the south-eastern area of the country, is well underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 1979-PA    Livestock Development Credit, US$30.0 million, June 11, 1981;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 4, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985).
This loan was made effective on December 4, 1981. The loan is being
committed at a faster rate than anticipated at the time of appraisal; the strong
demand for credit affects all three categories (large, medium and small-
scale) of producer, and the project's extension component for small scale
producers is being executed. The cofinancing loan from the OPEC Fund has
recently become effective.
Loan 1992-PA   Rural Primary Education Project (IV), US$17.0 million, July 16,
1981; (Date of Effectiveness:  December 2, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on December 2, 1981. Project prepara-
tion is fully completed, including final designs of schools, equipment and
furniture lists, selection of consultants and counterpart staff. Bid documents,
and local funds are available. During the first week of January 1982, the
Project Implementation Unit will process bidding for the procurement of equipment
for existing rural schools and for the construction of new ones. No implementa-
tion problems are foreseen to date.
Loan 2014-PA   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, US$11.8 million,
July 16, 1981; (Date of Effectiveness: February 10, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on February 10, 1982.
Loan 2087-PA   Caazapa Area Development Project, US$31 million, February 25, 1982;
(Date of effectiveness: no later than June 26, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988).
This loan is not yet effective.



-34 -                    ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:  30 months
(b)  Preparation by:  Government with assistance by Bank/FAO
cooperative program and consultants firm.
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:  August 1978
(d)  First Bank Mission:  January 1978
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  September 1981
(f)  Negotiations:  April 1982
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
IBR has developed a system of land records to handle titling data
and completed a preliminary inventory of land occupancy and tenure for all
lots in the 32 colonies participating in the project.
Section III - Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) a Field Coordinator, with qualification and experience
acceptable to the Bank, had been appointed (para. 44);
(ii) a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between BNF and the Government had been signed (para. 49);
(iii) at least 750 titles had been issued to settlers by IBR
for the FRG program (para. 40(a)); and
(iv) the ONCP has been formally established, in a manner and with
staff satisfactory to the Bank (para. 44).
(b)  a condition of disbursement would be, under the roads construction
and related equipment components, that the Roads Coordinator had
been appointed (para. 46);
(c)  a condition of disbursement for the burley plant would be that MAG
had established the entity in charge of the plant in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 38(d));



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) the 1,000 titles to be issued to settlers under the FRG aid
program would be issued by April 30, 1983 and the titling
schedule for the additional 3,500 settlers has been agreed
with the Bank (para. 40(a));
(e) the decentralization of record-keeping for the project area
would be operational and the official land inventory would be
completed by December 31, 1983 and December 31, 1984, respectively
(para. 40(a);
(f)  the deadline for establishing the entity in charge of the burley
plant in a manner satisfactory to the Bank would be December 31,
1983; if such establishment does not take place by such date, the
loan funds allocated for this component would be cancelled (para.
38(d));
(g) BNF's interest rate for sub-loans would be reviewed at least once a
year to reflect changes in domestic inflation and maintain positive
interest rates for new sub-loans (para. 49); and
(h) should UNDP finance the project's technical assistance components,
then funds allocated for these purposes under the loan would be
cancelled by a commensurate amount (para. 42).



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 16176
r    = -  56"0/ |                                          LIV   A                    JANUARY 1952
t                 I             Sa~~~~~~~nto Rosa                                      ./.
8            $                 g  9                              \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A R A GU A y 
-24-00                                                               ov\jj2°0-ARGENTINA !.
'Zo J§/vZ  G  e  &       \        //                         f                                            BRAZIL
i  .>w, we _ ..... f-n :< . , v- 560'00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51,0
2        i        L         Chore           
.  .  t k w _==A=Xi I~~~~~~~~~'-~~.                                                                                        D~
2d~~O,                            1E      f                                                ot  
.   Ou,ujhe;       '<                   el                          K 
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5~0
t ,, X I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/   .    -
(           ~~~~~21A30'
Guay71Ib                              PARAGUAY
L_siod- dela GJ.rra                                          22                                EJE  NORTE   INTEGRATED
5 Y-uik.i  ~ ~         ~            ~            ~          ~           3RUAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7Co_ P6.                                                                          2 t i\
\                                                                                                                             Project Area
9  Mobr0                                                                     30                                                    Existing German assisted colonies
IIRepatiodos del No.ro                                   <        T      /  teX  
12Aquid.166e Nig,iSq  Est,onislao                                                                   urL i    Additional Colonies
1~3 Yis,ihod6orsrudelo Guerrru   ~          ~         -      Ag;/   f    -               22 t      ,i/        X            EJENational roads
15Myaor H-osnoo                                                                                                                  Secondary roadls
16 Jhib. eyoin///.  
17 Coe Poli                            /Feeder roads
18 Nodyvas  fc  \ ;/\PojetAe
20 E~~~~~~~~~ M.   d. ~~~~~~~~~~Marshes
26 1 -f° pMborTe,es dKiloreten 0                                                                                                          5       10        15       20
30125 da did-6,e Nigui                -/ h- b- pSqn-d E                          i           > cha         /                             Wdd   B.a ff -o i-onieshat  r
3 14 ayp6 de dic,bre                                                                                                                               Th -a--od rtaas
15 Mayor Bermosa                                                                                                                               -h/p.-flhh .W-1. -  / \-\kda hnt p tpoh th r d
1              anhenIt-\pta-  -f hn heender--.
56230                                                                                    56Erv Oado  *hes
21 Navidcad              \                                                ;                    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d



