o     VI1      LOAN IUMBER 2141 PA
Loan Agreement
(Eje Norte Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONSTRUCTICU
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN IUHBER 2141 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               *             , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (hereinaft r called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Banco
Nacional de Fomento (hereinafter called BNE) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to BNF part of the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and 'conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and BNF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and BNF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the


﻿-2-
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNF pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term inc: Ades all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Project Area" means the area located in the Department
of San Pedro in the northwestern part of the Eastern Region of
Paraguay which includes the following colonies: La Nina, Cocuera,
Lisiados de la Guerra, Industrial Cu6, Yurujh6i, Liberaci6n, Co6
Potf, Iandeyara, Co6    Pyt9, Mbaretg, Repatriados del Norte,
Aquidabin Niglif, Yuaijhfi, Ybyp6, Mayor Hermosa, Jhugu6 Rey,
Naranjito, Vfctor N. Vasconcellos, Felicidad, Ex Matiauda,
Navidad, Defensores del Chaco     (Guayaib'), Tuyang6, Vacajhi,
Almeida Cu6, Santa Teresa, San Francisco, Apepu, Costa PucU',
Itapeby, 25 de Diciembre, 8 de Diciembre, and Luz Bella;
(d)  "Project Colonies" means all colonies included in the
Project Area; and "Project Colony" means any one of them;
(e) "German Assisted Colonies" means the following colonies
in the Project Area which are beneficiaries of aid programs by
the Federal Republic of Germany: Cocuera, Lisiados de la Guerra,
Industrial  Cu6, Yurujh6i, Liberaci6n, Co6 Potf, Cog Pyta,
Repatriados del Norte, Aquidaban Niguii and Yuaijh6;
(f) "MAG" means Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderfa, the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
(g) "MOPC" means Ministerio de Obras P*blicas y Comunica-
ciones, the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Communica-
tions;
(h)  "MSPBS" means Ministerio de Salud Pdblica y Bienestar
Social, the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health and Social
Welfare.
(i) "SEAG" means Servicio de Extension Agricola y Ganadera,
the Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service of MAG, or any
successor thereto;


﻿-3-
(j) "IBR" means Instituto de Bienestar Rural, the Bor-
rower's Rural Welfare Institute, or any successor thereto;
(k) "CNFPA" means Consejo Nacional de Fomento de la Produc-
cion Agrfcola, the Borrower's National Council for the Develop-
ment of Agricultural Production;
(1)  "ONCP" means   Oficina   Nacional  de  Coordinaci6n   de
Proyectos, the National Projects Coordination Office to be
established pursuant to Section 3.11 of this Agreement;
(m)  "DGV" means Direcci6n    Ceneral de   Vialidad, MOPC's
General Highway Directorate;
(n) "FRU" means Unidad de Caminos Rurales, DGV's Feeder
Road Unit;
(o) "Executing Agency" means any of the following: MAG,
MSPBS, SEAG, IBR, DGV, and "Executing Agencies" means MAG, SEAG,
IBR, DGV and M9PBS referred to collectively;
(p) "Small-Scale Farm" means a farm having up to about 30
hectares of suitable agricultural cropping land.
(q) "Small Scale Farmer" means agricultural producers oper-
ating a small scale farm either as an individual or as members of
cooperatives or similar forms of association;
(r)  "Farm Development Project" means a project to increase
or improve, or both, the physical resources and productivity of a
farm of a beneficiary located in the Project Area and to be
financed out of a Sub-loan;
(s)  "Beneficiary" means a Small Scale Farmer who lives in
the Project Area to whom BNF has made or proposes to make a
Sub-loan   and  whose   main  source   of  income   derives   from
agriculture;
(t)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
BNF out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for the
carrying out of a Farm Development Project;
(u)  "Guarani" and the symbol "G" means the currency of the
Borrower;


﻿-4-
(v) "Director" means the head of ONCP; and
(w) "Roads Coordinator" means the engineer to be appointed
pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
two million four hundred thousand dollars ($22,400,000).
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.03 of the
General Conditions, the Bank may cancel, by notice to the Bor-
rower: (i) the amount of the Loan allocated to Category (7) in
the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, if the
entity referred to in Section 3.01 (h) (i) of this Agreement has
not been established, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, by December 31, 1983; and (ii) an amount of the Loan up to
the equivalent of the amounts allocated to Categories 5 (b) and
(6) in the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
if the United Nations Development Programme has agreed to finance
all or part of the technical assistance required by the Executing
Agencies to carry out the Project.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to three hundred
thirty one thousand thirty four dollars ($331,034). The fee shall
be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. The following persons are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
(a) The President of BNF with regard to Part A of the Pro-
ject;
(b) The Minister of Agriculture with regard to Part G of
the Project;
(c) The Minister of Public Works with regard to Part D of
the Project; and
(d) The Director with regard to Parts B, C, E, F, H, I and
J of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C,
D, E, F, G, H and I of the Project, and cause BNF to carry out
Part A of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity    with    appropriate    administrative,    financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, and
cause BNF to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the executing agencies listed
in the Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement to carry out the
Parts of the Project set forth opposite each of them in said
Schedule.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BNF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of BNF therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, neces-
sary or appropriate to enable BNF to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement to BNF under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BNF, under terms and.
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, providing,
inter alia, that: (i) the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated
and repayable in Guaranies; (ii) any foreign exchange risk shall
be borne by the Borrower; (iii) the annual interest rate on the
Subsidiary Loan shall be not less than twelve and one tenth per
cent (12-1/10%); (iv) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall
be used by BNF exclusively in the execution of Part A of the
Project.
(e) The Borrower shall carry out its obligations and exer-
cise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,


﻿-7-
abrogate or waive the Su"Osidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(f) For purposes of coordinating and overseeing all road
works included under Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall
appoint, through FRU, a qualified engineer, acceptable to the
Bank, to act as roads coordinator with functions and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(g) The Borrower shall cause CNFPA, acting through its
ONCP, to: (i) coordinate the execution of the Project and to
maintain in the Project Area at least one field coordinator
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than September 30 of each year, an annual work plan that
will detail the physical targets, activities and projected
expenditures and allocations to be made for the Borrower's next
years" budget of all Executing Agencies in the carrying out of
the Project during the following year.
(h) For purposes of carrying out Part G, the Borrower
shall: (i) establish, or cause to be established, under institu-
tional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, a separate indus-
trial entity; (ii) cause the business and operations of such
entity to be conducted in accordance with appropriate technical,
financial and administrative practices and under the supervision
of competent and experienced management assisted by qualified
staff; (iii) under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, make
available to such entity the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category 7 of the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; (iv) in the establishment of such entity, make its
best efforts to secure a majority participation by         private
investors in its capital; and (v) not later than June 30, 1987,
offer to private investors, under terms satisfactory to the Bank,
all its interest in such entity.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts D, F, H and J of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Banl:
in August 1981.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. In the carrying out of Part E of the Project
the Borrower shall cause IBR to:
(a) issue land titles to settlers in the Project Colonies
promptly upon receipt of a downpayment equivalent to at least 10%
of the total price of their respective plot;
(b) issue at least 1,000 land titles to settlers in the
German Assisted Colonies not later than April 30, 1983;
(c) in addition to the titles referred to in paragraph (b)
above, issue land titles to settlers in Project Colonies accord-
ing to the following schedule: (i) at least 750 titles in each of
the following years: 1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986; and (ii) at least
500 titles by not later than June 30, 1987; and
(d)  (i) not later than December 31, 1983, establish in
its regional offices of Chord and San Estanislao decentralized
operating files, satisfactory to the Bank, to record all applica-
tions, stages of processing and installment payments for land
titles in the Project Colonies; and (ii) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, prepare an inventory of the existing land tenure
status of all lots in the Project Colonies.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a) construct and upgrade all roads according to a time-
table and design standards, including those set forth in Annex B
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) acquire and utilize equipment satisfactory to the Bank
for carrying out Part D.3 of the Project by force account; and
(c) after carrying out Part D of the Project, cause the
equipment acquired under such Part of the Project to be used
exclusively in the Project Area.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part 1.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the cement latrine platforms to be made and
distributed according to a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall be based on the existing demand for such platforms in the
Project Area.


﻿9
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause ONCP to prepare and
furnish to CNFPA and the Bank periodic reports of such s-ve and
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the execu.ion of
the Parts of the Project to be carried out by the Borrower, such
reports to be furnished at least semiannually until the
completion of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly  upon  their preparation, the    plans    specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and pro,.urement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any. contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-10-
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their res-
pective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project; and (b) furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisitions, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the carrying out of the Project. .
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: cause all roads in the
Project Area to be adequately maintained and cause all necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, through CNFPA, establish
and thereafter maintain a rural projects national coordinat-Lng
office (ONCP), whose organization, functions and responsibili-.
ties, including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any


﻿- 11 -
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets uatisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
Executing Agencies, BNF and any other departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause the Executing Agencies, BNF and any other department
or agency of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Pro-
ject or any Part thereof to keep separate accounts in respect of
the Part of the Project they are responsible to carry out.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
expenditures for the Project on account of which withdrawals were
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, certified copies of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures have been used to make payments for
goods received, or works or services performed, and that such
goods, works and services are eligible for financing under this
Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the Project; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) operate the health
facilities to be constructed and equipped under Part H of the
"-oject in accordance with appropriate health and administrative
pcactices; (b) operate the maintenance shop to be constructed
under Part D.4 of the Project in accordance with appropriate
technical and administrative practices; (c) cause the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the facilities constructed or equipped
under the Project to be adequately maintained; (d) cause all
necessary renewals or repairs to be made thereto; (e) provide,
promptly as needed, incremental funds, services, personnel and
other resources required for the purpose; and (f) cause the
equipment acquired under the Project to be utilized exclusively
in the Project Area.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BNF shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BNF under the Project Agreement or the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BNF will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) the    legislation  establishing   and   regulating   the
operations of BNF shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of BNF to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNF, ONCP or any Executing Agency or for the suspension
of their operations;
(e) BNF shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BNF
or by others whereby any of the property of BNF shall or may be
distributed.among its creditors; and
(f) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNF
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) or (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for


﻿- 14 -
a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BNF;
(b) the Borrower, through IBR, has issued at least 750 land
titles to settlers in the German Assisted Colonies;
(c) the Borrower has appointed the field coordinator refer-
red to in Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement; and
(d) ONCP has been established.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BNF, and is legally binding upon BNF in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BNF and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BNF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 16 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  (a) Sub-loans           6,000,000            55% of amount
under Part                              disbursed by
A of the                                 BNF in respect
Project                                 of the Project
(b) Equipment             200,000             50%
and vehicles
under Part
A.2 of the
Project
(2) Civil works:
(a) Under Part          8,568,966            60%
D of the
Project
(b) Other                 600,000            60%
(3)  (a) Vehicles              500,000      )
(b) Road con-           3,400,000     )       100% of foreign
struction                        )      expenditures
and main-                         )      and 80% of
tenance                          )      local expendi-
equipment                         )      tures
under Part                        )
D of the                          )
Project                           )


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4) Equipment,                 100,000             50%
supplies and
furniture
(5) Consulting                               )     100% of foreign
services                                )     expenditures
)     and 50% of
(a) Under Part          1,000,000       )    local expendi-
D of the                           )     tures
Project                            )
(b) Other                 600,000       )
(6) Training                   100,000
(7) Expenditures,            1,000,000             37%
other than
land acquisi-
tion, under
Part G of the
Project
(8) Fee                        331,034            Amount due
TOTAL             22,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
3.   The   disbursement  percentages   have  been   calculated  in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) under
Categories 2 (a) and 3 (b) until the Roads Coordinator has been
appointed; and (c) under Category (7) until the entity referred
to in Section 3.01 (h) of this Agreement has been established to
the satisfacti)n of the Bank.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot   fully   meet   the   estimated   shortfall,   reduce   the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without ih any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCREDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase agricultural pro-
duction and productivity and Small-Scale Farmers' income in the
Project Area.
The Project shall be carried out in the Project Area and
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Credit
1.   Provision by BNF of credit to Small-Scale Farmers for carry-
ing out Farm Development Projects for the Development of cash
crops, mainly cotton, burley tobacco and soybeans, and for food
crops for on-farm consumption, including investments such as
acquisition of draft animals, carts, plows and other land prepa-
ration implements, cultivation tools and sprayers, establishment
of pastures, erection of fences, and incremental operating costs.
2.   Expansion and equipment of BNF's offices in the Project
Area, including the acquisition and utilization of vehicles.
Part B:   Extension Services
Improvement of the extension services provided to farmers in
the Project Area, including the employment of about ten new
extension agents and two home economists and the acquisition and
utilization of vehicles for extension purposes.
Part C:   Agricultural Research
Expansion of the agricultural research station in Chorg,
including civil works, the acquisition and utilization of
laboratory equipment and motorcycles and the employment of about
three new research staff.
Part D:   Rural Roads
1.   Upgrading to all-weather standards of about 14 kilo-
meters of secondary roads between Chorg and Route 3.
2.   Upgrading to dry-weather standards of about 32 kilo-
meters of secondary roads.


﻿- 21 -
3,   Upgrading of about 560 kilometers of feeder roads and
construction of about 100 kilometers of new feeder roads, to
dry-weather standards.
4.   Building and equipping -a road maintenance shop in
Chor6.
Part E:   Land Titling
1.   Provision of titles to land to about 4,000 farmers
living in the Project Colonies.
2.   Preparation of an inventory of land tenure in        the
Project Colonies and establishment in Chor6 and San Estanislao of
registers of land titles issued to farmers in the Project
Colonies.
3.   Strengthening  of   IBR's  offices  in  Chorg  and   San
Estanislao, including construccion and equipment of new offices,
acquisition and verification of vehicles and employment of
additional staff.
Part F:   Cooperative Development
A program for promoting the establishment and development of
cooperatives in the Project Area, including the employment of two
experienced specialists in cooperative development and the
acquisition and utilization of vehicles for such purposes.
Part G:   Tobacco Plant
Establishment of a burley tobacco redrying and threshing
plant with a capacity for processing at least 4,500 kilograms per
hour of burley leaf.
Part H:   Strengthening of MAG's Planning Department
Strengthening the public investment planning and project
identification, preparation and evaluation capabilities of MAG's
Planning Department by acquisition and utilization of equipment
and furniture, office improvements and provision of technical
assistance services.


﻿- 22 -
Part I:   Improvement of Health Services
1.    Construction, equipment, staffing and operating about
16 health posts and one health center.
2.   Equipping of four existing health posts.
3.    Provision of about 6,600 cement latrine platforms to
families in the Project Area.
Part J:   Project Administration
Acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment and
hiring of staff for purposes of administering and coordinating
the execution of the Project.
The Project is expected to b completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Execution of the Project
Responsibilities
Overall Coordination
CNFPA (through ONCP)
Executing Agency                      Part of the Project
BNF                                       A
MAG                                   B, C, F, G, H
IBR                                       E
MSPBS                                      I
MOPC                                       D
CNFPA (ONCP)                              J


﻿- 24 -
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Project Roads
Secondary          Feeder
Roads            Roads
Design Speed (km/hr)                   50                40
Minimum Radius for
Horizontal Curves (m)                  90                60
Maximum Grade (%)                       6                 8
Minimum Stopping                       70                 -
Sight Distance (m)
Platform Width (m)                      6                 4
Surfacing (20 cm)                     About clay 30% and 70% of
over Entire Width                      locally selected materials,
only in critical sections
(approximately 20% of the
total length)
Stream Crossing                       Culverts or     Culverts or
4.0 m timber   4.0 m timber
bridges        bridges or
fords
Minimum Culvert Diam. (m)              0.6               0.6
Axle Loan Design (bridges)
AASHTO                                H-20               H-15
Minimum Right of Way Width (m)         20                15


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1987
through   February 1, 1999                  860,000
On   August 1, 1999                              900,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                 4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                11.60%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the design, construc-
tion and equipment of the burley redrying and threshing plant
shall be made through a single contract on a turnkey basis.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the


﻿- 28 -
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1.   Contracts for the carrying out of Parts D.1 and D.2 of the
Project may be procured in accordance with local bidding proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. Bid documents shall be prepared
on the basis of work plans, satisfactory to the Bank, which will
provide for several contracts of at leas: $600,000 equivalent
each.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment, other than road-
building equipment, may be procured in accordance with local bid-
ding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles may be procured in
accordance with local bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.   Civil works included under Part D.3 of the Project may be
carried out by the Borrower, through DGV by force account.
5.   Contracts for the road maintenance shop included in Part D.4
of the Project and for IBR's offices in Chor6 and San Estanislao
may be procured on the basis of local bidding procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.
6.   Contracts for goods, works or services under Part A.1 of the.
Project may be procured by Beneficiaries pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with


﻿- 29 -
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 30 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5
NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE FOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS (ONCP)
1.   The ONCP will consist of a director and general coordinators
for the Bank, Inter-American Development Bank and Bilateral
Projects. The Office will have an administrative unit to assist
in the execution of projects.       A field coordinator will be
assigned to each project.
2.   The ONCP will have the following general functions:
(a) serve as the link between the International Funding
Agencies and the various executing agencies of the Borrower;
(b) prepare annual plans of operation and budgets for each
of the Rural Development Projects for presentation to the CNFPA;
(c) monitor and coordinate the activities of the various
executing agencies;
(d) administer funds assigned to the ONCP, review and
approve disbursement requests prepared by the executing agencies,
for presentation to the international lending agencies;
(e) assist in the selection of candidates for advanced
training when funds are provided by the project funds; and
(f)  supervise the contracting of consultants and purchasing
of goods and equipment financed by project funds which will be
carried out by the various executing agencies according to
procedures established in the respective loan documents.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2i       day of         198 AZ.
& FOR S       ARY
FOR SECRETARY


