Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
--   _       )  &     2C -,,, 
Report No. 12771-IN
INDIA
STAll APPRAISAL REPORT
FAMILY WELFARE (ASSAM, RAJASTHAN AND KARNATAKA) PROJECT
NAY 26, 1994
MI CROGRAPH I CS
Report No:        12771 IN
Type: SAR
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Ths. docament has a resticted dIsutIon and may be used by recipiet ody In the performae of
thelc ofi ff duties Its cooke-t may not odhewise be disbosed wiou Wodd Baok authoriz



CURRENCY EOUIVALINTS
(As of December, 1993)
Currency Unit     =    Rupee
Rupee 33.9        -    US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.0         -    US$ 0.03
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
I Meter (M)       =    3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer       =    0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANM          - Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
ARI          - Acute Respiraty Infections
CBR          - Cnude Birth Rate
CDR         - Crude Death Rate
CDD         - Control of Diarrhoeal Diseass (progam)
CHC         - Community Health Centre
CIF         - Cost,n lsuance, Freight
CMHO        - Chief Medical and Health Officer
CPR         - Contaceptive Prevalence Rate
CSSM        - Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (project)
DGS&D       - Directorate-General of Supplies and Disposal
EFC         - Expenditure and Finance Committee (GOI)
FRU          - First Referal Unit
FW          - Family Welfare
GNM         - General Nurse-Midwife
GNP         - Gross National Product
GOI         - Government of India
HAC         - Health Advisory Committee
HFWTC       - Health and Family Welfare Training Centre
HMLS        - Health Management Infonration System
ICB          - InteTnational Competitive Bidding
ICDS        - Integrated Child Development Services (rogram)
IDA          - Intratoa Development Association
IEC          - Information, Education and Communication
IMR          - nifant Mortality Rate
IPP         - India Population Project (I uough VM)
LCB         - lowCl Competitive Bidding
LHV         - Lady Health Visitor
MCH          - Maiernal and Child Health (care, services, program)
MIS          - Managemt Information System
MPHW        - Male Multi-Purpose Health Worker(s)
MOHFW       - Ministry of Health and Famdly Welfare
MSS         - MAhi&a Swastha Sangha (women's group)
MTP         - Medical Ternination of Pregnancy
NGO         - Non-Govenmental Organisation
ORS         - Oral Rehydration Salts/Solution
PHC          - Primary Health Centre
PHN          - Public Health Nurse
PMO         - Principal Medical Officer
PMP          - Private Medical Practitioner
PVO         - Private Voluntary Organisation
PWD          - Public Wor  Departnent
RNI          - Rate of Natural Increase
SC           - Sub-Centre
SIHFW        - State Institute for Health and Family Welfare
SMO          - Senior Medical Officer
TBA          - Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR          - Total Fertility Rate
UIP          - Universal Immunisation Program
UNFPA        - United Nations Fund for Populaton Activities
Tbis document has a resticted distibuton and may be used by rociients only in the Pefman h
offlci duties. Its contents may not othewse be disclosed without World Bank autorzato



DODIA
FAMILY VVELFAR(A$SAM4 RAJASTHAN AND K]UATIAKAPOJ
Page No.
Basic Data  ........          .     .........................................   iv
Credit and Project Summary  ....... .............................  v
I. POPULAION ISSUES AND THE HEALTH OF WOMND AND CHILDREN
IN DIA   ............................................  1
A.DemographicTrends andIssues .............................  1
B. Child and Maten   Health  ................................  2
II. GOVERNMT POLICES AND PROGRAMS IN POPULATION AND
MATERNAL AND HIl.LDL HEALTH ......... .............                                           3
A. Population Policies and Progrms   .....             .......................  3
B. Policies and Programs in Maternal and Child Health  .......              .........   4
m.TH mm        LkN PAMiLY WNELFARE PROGRA  ............................. s
A. Structure and Scope            ....................................  s
B. Perfornance, Problems, Issues ...............                                              6
C. IDA  nvolvement and Experience in Family Welfare  ..... ..                    ......... 10
IV. THIM  PROJCT   ............................................. 15
A. Project Rationale and Scope  . .............................. 15
B. Ptoject Objectives ..................................... 16
C. ProjectContent .           ...................                                            .................... 18
D.PPhnningfor TbalandotherSpecialPopuationGroups .............. 25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mismion that visited India in December, 1993. The mission
comprised Althea Hill (rask Manager and Mission Leader), Claudia von Monbart 0Senior Economist), K.B. Banerjee
(Public Health SpeciaList), R. Sethuraman (Fincial Specialist), Bnt  Jacobson and Subbash Chakravarty (Architect
Consultants), Joyce Lyons and Jennifer Huddart (Craming Consultants), Bonani Kakkar (IEC Consultant), Bruce
Geimt (MIS Consultant) and Pradeep Kakkr  (Mnagement Consultant). Frances Plunlett (SAPH) also contibuted
to the appraisa. The Lead Adviser waS Tom Merrick (Senior Population Adviser, PHW  and Peer Reviewers were
Ane Tiker PN, Ricbard Heaver (Manila Res) and Scott Guggenheim (ENVSP). The report was produced by
Jane Bekker. The Prqject is endorsed by Ricbard Sklnik, Chief, Population and Hunman Resources Operations
Division and Heinz Vergin, Director, litia County Department.



ii
V.                                                                          . ..PROJE.r.C=..E.............E.......M.Nrr.R.NG28
A. Costsnats   ............................... .........  28
B. FinancingPlan  .............            . . ........................ 30
C.RecurmentCostsandSustinability                    ........................... 30
D. PbrojectImplementation  .................................. 31
E. Status of Project Prepaation  ....... . .                        .      33
F. Monitoring and Evaluation    .         ........  35
G. Disbursements ...........                             .. .  36
H.                .....ent  .. ........ ...             ...... 37
1. Accounting and Auditing: ............          ........... 41
VI. BENEFrS A          SKS ....................... 41
A. Project Benefits ............. . 41
B. Prject Risks ................................ 42
ViI. AGREEMIENS REACHED   .......................                                43
A-NE
AnnexI:    Latest Demographic Data and Family Welfare Key Indicators for al India and
Major States.
An=  2:    Outlnen of the Action Plan for Revamping the Family Welfare Program
Anm@ 3      Key Program and Demogrphic Indicaors.
Ann  4:    Summary List of Civil Works to be Undertaken under the Project in Assam,
Rajasthan and Karnat
Ape    5:    Model Plans for Sub-Centre Buildings in Assam, Rajasthan and Kamataka) and
Special Techniques and Procedures for Construction.
iinnexI:    Criteria for Selection of Communities and Sites to Receive Newly-Constructed
Sub-Centre Buildings: Assam, Rajasthan, Kamata.
A_ 7:    List of Communities Selected to Receive New Sub-Centre Buildings in First
Year of Project: Assam, Rajasthan, Kamataka.
Mm   A      Design for Boat Clinic, Assam.
Ami& 9:    List of Vehicles to Be Provided under the Project in Assam, Rajasthan and
Kanataka.
Anmex 1     Community-Based Volunteer Schemes: Assam, Rajasthan and Karmaak
An& 11:   Summary of Traing Programs and Strategies: Assam, Rajasthan, KamaaZ
Annea 12:   Summary of Strategies for Improving Family Welfare Program Logistics in
Assam and Rajastfan.
Annx 13:   Summary of IEC Strategies: Assam, Rajasthan and Karataka.
Ann  14:   Summary of Stategies for Improving MIS in Assam, Rajasthan and Knataka
and General Stategy for Improving Family Welfare MIS through Introduction
of EMIS.
Annex15:   Indicative List of Innovative Schemes: Assam, Rajastan, Kamataka.
Annex  :   Major Findings of Training Needs Assessments and Benefiary Needs



iii
AssessmentsDone as PM of Projec Preparation: Assm, Rajastn,
A1 :    Sfor Improving Famiy Welfr Services to Tribal and Migratory
Groups: Assam, Rajastiar, K,rnatam.
Annex:   Detaed Cost Table
Ann   19:   Delails of Expenditures & Diumet
Annex 20:   Summary Analyses of Sustiability of Proect Iwesmt and Recurrent Cost
Implications in Assam, Rajasthan and Karnaka.
Annex 21:   Lis of StaffCommittee Members ad Orgnigams of Project Mana ent
Structure: Assam, Rajasthn, Krataka
AM        2:   List of Additional Posts Creted undet te Project: Assam, Rajasn and
KamtwaS
AMa 23:   OutLine of Scope and Methodology for Baseine Surveys and Other Evaluae
Surveys and Studies.
Ann  24:   Outline of Layout and Content for Six-Monthly Proe  Reports.
Anne 25:   Superion Plan.
An2: 2      Outie of the mplmentaion Voluime and Plans.
Annx27:   Seleed Douments m Proet Files
1  Linags of the Projed to tie Action
Plan for Revamping the Pamily Welfe Program  ......  .................... . 9
2  Lessons Appled from IDA Expince i Famiy
WYelfareLending   .      ........................... *e...... 13
3  Key Projea Intmediat bdion  ........... . . . . . . . . . ......... 17
4  CostbyConmpoent ..................................                      . 28
5  Costs by Category of Exowditure ........................... . 29
6.         nArrangemnents ........ ..................... . . . . 38



iv
IDMA
FAMILY -WELFARE (ASSAB4 RAJtASTHAN AND K&NAAKM}POlC
BASIC DMT FOR ALL-INDIA
Total Area                                (1991)            3,287,253 hm2
Total Population (Census count)           (1991)            846 million
Density per hn2                           (1991)            257
Percent Urban (Census count)              (1991)            26
Per Capita Gross Domestic Product         (1991)            US$ 256
Totd Fertiity Rate 1/                     (1991)            3.6
Life Expetancy at Birth 1/                (1991)            61
hifant Mortality Rate 1/                  (1992)            79
Matnal Mortaity Rate 2/                   (1993)            5501100,000
Crude Birth Rate 1/                       (1992)            29/1000
Crude Death Rate 1/                       (1992)            10/1000
Rate of Natual Inncrese /                 11992)            1.9%
Age Struchue: Percent 0-14  years         (1991)            36
15-64 years                             60
65+   years                             4
Adult Total Liteacy Rate (Census count)   (1991)            52
Adult Female Literacy Rate                (1991)            39
P:imary Schol Enrollment, Boys 3/         (1991/2)          117
Primary School Enrollment, Girls 3/  ,    (199112)          88
Population per Physician                  (1990)            2,460
Percent of Births Attended 1/             (1990)            44
by Trained Personnel
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate 4/          (1993)            43
1/   Registrar General, data from India Sample Registration System
2/   WHO estimate
3/    Data from the iDepartment of Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development
4/    Data from MOHFW
Note: Data from the World Bank World Development Report, 1993, where not otherwise
noted.



v
IDIA
Erm= WLFARE (ASSAM. RAASTI AD KARNATAKA)1RWEt
pltE AND PRO.Iff SUARY
:9mgw.                  EIndia, acting by its President
States of Assam, Rajastian and Karnataka
hmti:                   SDR 62.7 miion (US$88.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 35 years maturity
Oe4mm   Temr:           (lGovemment of India (GOI) to the States of Assam, Rajasthan
and Karnatasa: in accordance with standard arrangements for
development assist;nce to States
The prqject would strengthen and improve the functioning of
GOI's Family Welfare (FW) program in Assam, Rajastian and
Karnataka, imth the objective of thereby lowering current levels
of fertlity and matnal and childhood mortality in the three
sates. The PW program would be strengthened through five
components: (1) stengthening of FW service delivery, including
extension and upgading of infrastructure through construton
of subo-centres and Primary Health Centres and upgrading of
Community Health Centres to serve as first referral units for
obstetic emergencies, and strengthening of outreach and
community linkages through setting up of mobile clinis and
establishment of community volunteer networks; (2)
improvement of Family Welfare service quality, including
rationalisation of taining institutions and planning, improveme-lt
of program logistics, and promotion of Non-Governmental
Orgnisation and privasector involvement; (3) strengthening
of demand generation activities through improved Information,
Education, and Communication planning and activities; (4)
strengthening of program management and implementation
capacit; (5) a fund for innovative schemes aimed at improving
service quality, and for preparation of Family Welfare
investment proposals for the heavily tribal North-Eastem states.
_The project should lead to improved access to, demand for, and
quality of Family Welfare services in Assam, Rajasthan and
Rataka, particularly among poor, remote and tribal



vi
populations. Improvements would be assessed through service
and community-based indicators of program performance and
effectiveness. As a result of such improvements, matenal and
child health should improve, and fertility and maternal and
childhood morlity decline, both statewide and among these
populations. Trends in these indicators would be assessed
through popuiation-based surveys and servce statistics. The
major risks relate to the current weak implementation capacity
of the states, the possibility that infastcture and programs put
in place by the project will not be maintained and fully funded
during the project and after closure, and the new and innovative
nature of many of the programs to be set up. In addition, there
are still minor lingering securty concerns in Assam. To
minimise these risks, program management will be strengthened
under the project; project and program coordination fostered;
state Family Welfare budget allocations reviewed in advance
each year, civil works tightly managed and spesd  and their
maitenance assmred during the project; and new and innovatie
p'rograms piloted, evaluated, and phased in gradually. Security
risks caiinot be addressed directly, but project investnent and
program strengthening should help maintain the program
through any periods of stress.
Es_mated NotLocal   Forign  Total
-US$miion
Strengthen Health & F.W. Service Delivery   46.0   4.1    50.1
Improve Quality of F.W. Sevices         21.1       0.9   22.0
Icase Demand for F.W. Senrices          10.0      0.3    10.3
Improve Management                       8.2       0.6     81
Iunvative Schemes                        4.0       0.1    4.1
Total Base Cost                         89.2       6.0   95.2
Physical Contingencies                   7.2       0.6    7.8
Price Contingencies                      0.2       0.7    0.8
Total aL ject Cost                      96.6       7.2   103.8
Including Taxes and Duties of US$5.3 million



vil
Financing Plan:                     Local   Fcrelgp    Total
IDA                                 81.4      7.2      88.6
50I                                 15.2      -        15.2
lawl                                "A    LsZ L
Estimated
VisbursementsfM        P9 E7   EY29 F E20    PY20      0    Xf1  Fy20
Annual       3.4   8.6    13.0    15.9    16.4    14.2    14.2         3.0
Cumulative    3.4  12.0   25.0    40.9    57.3    71.4    85.6        88.6
Rat of Reb:    Not applicable
erty Catepry:   groam= of, lIed   Intevftions. The project supports ovefall
strengthening of the Family Welfare progran, which is designed to deliver free pimary
health and family planning services to poor women and children. One of its main components
covers extension of srvces into poor aiJ undersrved areas, inlduding tribal, nomad and
isolated populations, plus stengthening of outreach to poor nu  families. Special stategies
for serice delivery to triba, nomad and other isolated groups are included in the proect.



IND
FAMIL WELFAR (ASSAM, ItAJ,SHA AND KATNAKO P;OEC
I. WELUaT101 ISSUES AND THE HtEALTH DE WOMEN AND CEDM
-N IND1MA
A. Demographic Trends and Issues
1.1      India has the second largest population in the world, enumerated in 1991 at 846
million or 16 percent of the world's total. TLe national rate of population growth has hovered
around 2 percent per annum since Independence nearly 50 years ago, the product of steadily
declining mortality combined with compensating falls in fertlity. There are signs of a
gradual slight decline in the growth rate, but a major further drop in fertility wil be needed
to offset continued falls in mortality and achieve genuine low growth. India's population has
more than doubled since Independence, and at a growth rate of 2 percent will double again in
another 35 years. The percentage of the population Iving in urban areas has also grown
steadily to a current level of about 26 percent.
1.2       During the last 50 years, national life expectancy has risn from under 35 years
to 60 years, while infant mortality has fallen from at least 200 to just under 80 per thausand
births. The fall in childhood mortality has beer. particularly marked over the last few yas.
This overall decline in mortality has been primarily due to ircreasing control of
communicable and epidemic diseases, such as malaria, cholera, smallpox, tuberculosis and
the communicable diseases of childhood, coupled with the virual elimination of penodic
famines and general improvements in the food supply and nutrition.
1.3       During the same period, national fertility has dropped from a total fertility rate
(TFR) of more than six births per woman to 3.6, with most of the decline occurring during
the las 20 years. The fall is due in part to a steady rise in the average age at maniage for
girls from under 16 years to nearly 19 years, but mainly to the increasing use of birth contmr
among married couples to a current contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of over 40 percent
There is conceem, however, that the increase in contraceptive use appears to bave stalled over
the last few years. In combination with continued mortality decline, such a stall is liklly to
prevent any further reduction in poplatn growth.
1.4       These national figures conceal large variations across the vast population of India
(see Annex 1). Generally speaking, mortality and fertility are lower in the south than in the
north. The southemmost slates of Kerala and Tamil Nadu are close to replacement-leve
ferlity, while Kerala has achieved a life expectancy of over 70 years and an infant mortality
rate (IMR) under 20. By contra, the big northern states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Orissa still suffer infant mortaity rates in the range of 89 to 114,
while U.P, Rajasthan and Orissa also have total fertlity rates ranging from 4.6 to 5.1. It is
these states that primarily impede national progress to levels of mortality, fertility and growth



2
similar to those of China.
1.5      India does not have the natural resource base to sustain such a huge and rapidly
growing population Wefznitely. Population density has already reached 257 persons per kn2.
Land is becoming increasingly scarce, leading to fragmentation of holdings,
underemployment, and the growth of the landless rutal class. In turn, urban nmigation is
producing constant growth in outlying slum populations for which cities cannot afford to
provide services. Other natual resources, such as forests and water supplies, are under
severe pressure.
1.6      In India, human resource development has suffered from under-investment and
under-financing in the education, health, nutrition and population sectors, particularly at the
lower levels. Over ten percent of girl children still receive no education at all, and less than
Lalf of either boys or girls enrolled in primary school manage to complete it. Fifteen percent
of the population are still not covered by any health or Family Welfare services, while the
national Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) program covers only half of children
in need. In turn, this failure to develop human resources to their full potential will
increasingly act as a drag on the national development effort.
D. Child and Maternal Healt
1.7       Childhood levels of mortality and morbidity in India are still very high (see
Annex 1). The national infant mortality rate has declined markedly in recent years, but is
still nearly 80 per thousand births More than ten percent of Indian children still do not
survive their first five years of life. The major causes of death in childhood are similar to
those found throughout the developing world, namely respiaoly infectons, diarrhoeal
disease, malnutrition, low birthweight, malaria, tetanus and the communicable diseases of
childhood, notably measles. The effects of poor birth spacing and excessively early
childbearing on the health of the children born have not been well studied in India, but are
kinown to be important in other high-fertility countries. Deaths from all of these causes are
largely preventable.
1.8       A peculiarity of Indian mortality pattems, rarely found outside South Asia, is the
marked female disadvantage in childhood and through the young adult years. As a result,
there is a significant male surplus in India's population, with the current sex ratio standing at
108 males per 100 females. The female it o-tality disadvantage has been found for as long as
reliable mortality estimates go back in time, but has been declining gradually. It is a
partcular feature of northern India and is considerably lessened or even absent in most of
south India.
1.9       At present, national IARs are much the same for boys and girls, and female life
expectancy recently rose slightly above male life expectancy. However the female
disadvantage persists from early childhood up to the age of 35 years, after which it
disappears. It is particularly marked in early childhood and in the early childbearing years.



3
The causes of the disadvantage in early childhood are thought to be prefetenial feeing and
care for boys, including preferential recourse to medical treatment. The causes in the early
childbearing years are thought to be largely related to the high level of matemal moftty
and the continuing poor nutrition of women, again the product of the low status of girls and
young women.
1.10      Maternm  morality in India is among the highest in the world. The maten
mortality ratio is estimated at around 550 deaths per 100,000 deliveries, implying that about
20 percent of all deaths to Indian women of childbearing age are matemal deaths. The most
important causes of mautenal deaths in India are sepsis and hemorrhage, which together
account for 40 to 50 percent of deaths. Other major causes are toxaemia, obstructed labour
and abortion. Anaemia, which is a chronic condition of most Indian women, is an important
contributing factor throughout, as well as unhygienic delivery conditions at home and
reluctance on the part of families to take women with high-risc pregancies or complicated
deliveries to health facilities for assistance.
H. GOVUtNERNT POLCIDES AND PROGRAMS IN lbOl!UATIO AND
AIATENL ANDCID BIEAM1
A. Population Pollcies and Prgam
2.1       Concern in India over the rapid growth of population, and its adverse
consequences for national development and living standard improvements, has been high
from Independence onwards. As a result, a national family plaing program was stated as
early as 1952. It has continued in existence ever since, first as a free-standing program and
later, since 1977, integrated with the MCH (matenal and child health care) program into te
Family Welfare program. Government commitment and support for the family planning
program has flucuatd over its 42 years of life, but has generally been strong. Recent
evidence of commitment has been its effective protection under Idia's stuur adjustment
program.
2.2       Technically speaking, the family planning program has always suffered from
flaws of design and implementation which have limited its effectiveness and impact (see
paras. 3.9-3.11), as well as from persistent underfunding relative to total needs in the sector.
There has also been a lack of attention to interventions oter than famUily planing services
which might increase demand for smaller families and birth control, such as iprvements in
the education and stats of women. In response, GOI has caried out periodic r cgs
of the program and has relied increasingly on donor funds for invesment financing.
2.3       The most recent effort at restuctuing the Family Welfare program, including
the family planning program, is the uAction Plan for Revamping the Family WeLfare
Program in India, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfire (MOHFW) earuy in



4
1992. This laid out a central strategy for improving the performance and impact of the entire
program (see para. 3.12 and Annex 2) and led to creation of a national population
commission intended to address these and other issues and interventions in the population
sector. State Plans were next to be prepared. Substantial progress has been made on
implementation of the national Plan but there is still much to be done at both national and
State level (see paras. 3.12-3.14 and Annex 2). Formal State Plans for Assam, Rajasthan and
Karnataka were drawn up during preparation for this project, with the project's design and
content fully taken account of in their formulation.
B. Poflcies and Programs in Maternal and Child Health
2.4      In the first two decades following Independence, India's public health services
focused largely on curative and hospital care, together with vertical control progams for
such diseases as malaria and leprosy. With the development of the primary health care
philosophy in the 1970s, however, attention turned to the establishment of primary health
services and preventive care, and to the creation of an appropriate infrastructure and trained
workforce on the base of the already existing network of health facilities and staff. Matnal
and child health (MCH) care became the focus of this effort, and MCH programs were
established. Finally, the link with family planning was recognised and formalised and servce
delivery for the two sectors was integrated under the title of the Family Welfare Program in
1977.
2.5       Within MCH, the emphasis was at first on child health, as elsewhere in the
world. In the mid-1980s, the very successful Universal Immunisation Progmm (UIP) was
launched, which now covers 85 percent of children and may have been responsible for the
recent large drop in infant and child mortality. Other programs also began to be developed,
including the Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases (CDD), interventions to control Acute
Respiratory Infections (ARI) and the provision of supplements of Vitamin A and iron.
2.6      Tle Family Wela  program had always included antenatal, delivery and
postnatal care as one of its basic services, but maternal care at first took second place to
child health care. In response to the worldwide Safe Motherhood initiative in the mid-1980s,
attention has become increasingly focused also on the high leveis of maternal morbidity and
mortality in India.
2.7       Under the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95), a maternal and child health plan was
developed to move forward in both maternal and child health. The plan called for packages
of interventions for each aspect to be delivered through the Family Welfare program. The
child health package was conceived as building on the base of the successful UEP and was
entitled UIP Plus. Besides immunisation, it would include the ARI, CDD and Vitamin A and
iron supplementation interventions, as well as newborn baby care. The safe motherhood
package would include: antenatal care (regular check-ups, tetanus immunisation, anaemia
control, screening and referral of high-risk cases); care at delivery (trained assi.4ance during
delivery by traditional birth attendants (TBAs) or Family Welfare staff, together with timely



5'
referral to properly-equipped higher-level facilities when necessary); postnatal care; and
promotion of safe birth spacing and timing. In addition, first referral units for complicated
delivenes would be made accessible through upgrading of Community Health Centres
(CHCs) or district hospitals. This plan is now being implemented under the IDA-supported
Child Survival and Safe Motherhtood (CSSM) project (see paras. 3.13, 3.21, 3.23).
m. THE INDIAN FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM
A. Structure and Scope
3.1       The Family Welfare program provides the primary health care level in the Indian
public health care system. Its focus is on women and children and on preventive health, and
it is oriented towards the fidral and urban poor. In practice, many services offered Sy the
program are also available and obtained from NGO and private sector providers of both
allopathic and traditional systems of medicine, who overall provide around 80 percent of aU
health care in India even among the poor. This is particularly the case for maternal care and
all curative care. For some Family Welfare interventions, however, the program is almost
the sole provider of services to the poor, notably for immunisation and sterilisation.
3.2       Because of thie national importance attached to the family planning program, the
Family Welfare program is almost entirely centraUlly-funded, except for a few small but
important items such as maintenance of Family Welfare facilities and salaries of male Multi-
Purpose IHealth Workers (MPHWs). The program is however implemented by the states. By
contrast, most financing of "health services" (comprising the hospital network and vertical
disease-control programs for malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, AIDS, etc) as well as their
implementation are the responsibility of the sates, with some assistance from the centre to
the disease-control programs.
3.3       The core Pamily Welfare program infrastructure in rural areas consists of
Prhia  Health Care Centres (PHCs), Community Healtn Centres (CHCs) and sub-
centres. The key institution is the PHC, which is intended to cover a population of 30,000
and is the administrative headquarters of the preventive care system. Clinics providing minor
curative care are also run at the PHC, and there are in-patient facilities for observation and
medical treatment. They are also used for sterilisation and immunisation camps. PHC staff
complements include one or more medical officers, who run the clinics, provide any in-
patient treatment, and supervise the preventive care system. The medical officers are assisted
by a complement of four or more support staff, consisting of Health Assistants (HAs), Multi-
Putpose Health Workers (MPHWs) or Lady Health Visitors (LHVs), plus a Community
Health Worker.
3.4       The sub-centre is the lowest level of Family Welfare institution and is often
called the outreach arm of the program. There are generally around six sub-centres



6
depending from each PHC, each sub-centre serving a population of around 5,000 in one or
more villages. In hilly, tribal or other remote areas, the population covered may be lowered
to 3,000. The sub-centre is staffed by one Auxiliay Nurse-Midwife (ANM), also known as a
female MPHW or Junior Health Assistant. She is responsible for promoting and delivering
all preventive matemal and child health services in her community, as well as for motivation
for family planning and supplies of pills and condoms; occasionally she may also be trained
to insert IUDs. She will also provide some minor curative care. ANMs are super-rised in the
field mainly by the LHVs (who are usually promoted ANMs), but also by the PHC medical
officers during the regular monthly meetings at the PHCs. A male MPHW is sometimes also
present.
3.5       The original design of the Family Welfare program included community linkages
with the sub-centre through a system of community-based volunteers called Health Guides.
These workers assisted the ANMs in promotion of MCH and family planning services and
acted as a Liaison between them and the community. This scheme has been largely
abandoned, and no substitute has yet been put in place. The only remaining links are through
the village traditional midwives or TBAs (dais), who are supervised in an informal fashion
by the ANMs and sometimes trained by them.
3.6       The CfC is one step up fiom a PHC, and is often crated from one by
Upgrading. There is generally one per sub-district, and each is intended to cater to a
population of 100,000. CHCs are supposed to provide specialist services, including minor
surgery, and to be staffed by specialists, including a physician, surgeon, gynecologist, dental
ugeon and pediatrician with support staff to match. Again, they are also used for camps.
3.7       These Family Welfare facilities, staff and services are supported by state-level
training, MEC and MIS institutions, and managed from the state Health and Family Welfare
department. However much of the content of the program and its support services, as well as
maement systems of targets, norms and incentives, are centrally determined and
controlled from MOHFW.
3.8       The urban Pamily Welfare system is broadly similar to the rural structure, except
that the lowest level is called the health post and has a doctor, the maternity home or Post-
Partum Centre takes the place of the PHC, municipal or Government hospitals take the place
of the CHC, Public Health Nurses (PHNs) take the pLace of LHVs, and community linkage
schemes have been or are being established in the largest cities. Management is done from
municipal health departments.
B. Performance, Problems, Issues
3.9       The Fanily Welfare program has had many successes. The UIP program has
maised immunisaronrates for children to 85 percent from a starting point of ess than 40
pect in 1985, and recently received an extremely favourable evaluation from international
experts. Contraceptive prevalence has rsen from around 20 percent in the late 1970s to more



7
than 40 percent today. Both childhood mortality and fertility have fallen significantly over the
past decade. Yet despite these achievements, the Family Welfare program continues to
suffer from long-standing problems of implementation throughout India. If not solved, they
threaten further progress in i-ducing fertility and maternal and childhood mortality.
3.10      These problems are well-known. Program financing is inadequate for total
needs, particularly for recurrent costs of maintenance and medical supplies. Program
management is weak and over-entralised. The progran has been driven by mechanical,
rigidly-administered and counterproductive systems of targets, norms and incentives.
Supervision is punitive and/or inadequate. Training has been of poor quality. Workloads for
lower-level staff are unrealistically high and their living conditions are often poor. Systens
of outreach and community linkages are inadequate. Too little attention is paid to IEC.
Although the Family Welfare program is designed to provide a wide range of family
planning methods (male and female sterilisation, the pill, the IUD and condoms, backed up
by MTP services in the event of contraceptive failure), the range of choice acually open to
couples is extremely limited, with female sterilisation often the only option made available in
practice.
3.11      These generic problems are co-npounded in poor or backward states vmd distrcts
by their characteristically poor management and implementation capacity, difficulties of
transport and access, cultural resistance to modern MCH and family planning services, and
lack of adequate basic Family Welfare infrastructure. Taken all together, they tend to result
in low morale among Family Welfare staff and dissatisfaction and low utilisation of services
by the community.
3.12.     The Action Plan for Revamping the Family Program drawn up by the MOHFW
in early 1992 is designed to address many of these issues (see the summary in Annex 2). Its
twelve components include: (1) generation of national consensus and policies for the Family
Welfare program; (2) improvement of the quality and outreach of FW services, including
creation, consolidation and maintenance of new and existing FW infrasucture and
improvements in FW workers' living conditions and skills; 3) special initiatives in the 90
most backward districts of UP, MP, Bihar and Rajasthan, based on disaggregated, micro-
level planning; (4) modification of the current system of targets and incentives for adoption
of (female) sterilisation to make it more flexible and effective, including removal of rigid,
centrally-imposed targets, discontinuation of payments to motivators, and devolution of more
responsibility to the States; (5) promotion of a broader contraceptive method mix and greater
use of spacing methods by younger couples; (6) upgrading and intensification of the
performance of UIP and MCH programs; (7) improvement of FW services in urban slums;
(8) salvage and revitalisation of community-based link worker schemes; (9) raonalisation
and strengthening of FW field worker taning; (10) rvitalisation and intensification of IEC
efforts (with specal mention of Rajasthan's integrated IEC bureau as a model); (11) greater
involvement of NGOs; and (12) strengthening of intersectoral coordination between the FW
program and other relevant Government agencies through creation of a high-level population
commission and corresponding State and district-level bodies.



8
3.13      Progress has been made on putting most parts of this strategy into action, with
major support from WDA-supported opertions (see paas. 3.16-3.24). The Child Survival and
Safe Motherhood (CSSM) project of national scope, which is now completing its second year
of implementation, is designW to support and strengthen the overall package of MCHI
interventions included in the Family Welfare program, including birth spacing methods. In
addition, special attention is being given to the creation of facilities for high-risk deliveies in
the 90 backward districts. Under the Social Safety Net Credit, which became effective in
December, 1992, GOI has begun to increase the standard allocation of drugs to Family
Welfare centres and plan and implement special interventions (micro-planning for service
improvements, augmentation of drug supplies, upgrading of facilities, posting of female
doctors) in the 90 backward districts. Most of the major concerns of the components
covering service improvement, urban schemes, field-worker training, community-based link
workers, IEC and NGO involvement are being addressed in the States and cities covered by
IDA-supported Area Projects, including the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Popuation
Projects plus the Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project, as well as by those covered by
other donors.
3.14      On the Government side, a high-level Population Commission has been set up as
a sub-committee of the National Development Council, a council which comprises all Chief
Ministers of States. This Commission has undertaken and stimulated work on policy
formulation, intesectoral odinadon and generation of national consensus. The preparation
of State Action Plans, intended to put the Action Plan into implementation at State level, has
begun. ITe package of incentives and targets underpinnig the dominance of steilisation is
being gradually dismantled from the Centre; payments to motivators for steriLisation have
been discontinued and targets for sterilisation acceptors have been devolved to the States and
de-emphasised. Correspondingly, targets for spacing methods are being increased and
emphasised. Several initial steps have been taken on the promotion of a broader method mix:
Production of upgraded condoms and IUDs is due to begin shortly; production of oral pills
has been restored from the temporary crisis of the past two years; clnical trials of implants
have been initiated; injectables have been cleared for use in the private sector (with the
intention of incorporating them in the Family Welfare program as soon as their popularity
and acceptability bave been demonstated); and planning has begun for re-introduction of
vasectomy using new and improved surgical techniques. Consideration and formulation of
next step on program reform and development has begun.
3.15      This project would play an essential role in the implementation of the Action
Plan in Assam, Rajasthan and Karnatka, as shown in detail in Table 1. It will ufilise key
indicators relating to Plan goals and objectives for project monitorng and evaluation. It
would support implementation of the Action Plan components covering service quality and
outreach improvement, field-worker training, community-based link worker programs, IEC
and NGOs (components 2,8,9,10,11) in Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka. In addition, it
would help support stngthening of MCH programs in these states through establishment of
First Refenal Units (component 6) and the speial initative for 90 districts (component 3)
tough FW program strengthening in Rajastfan. The project would also seek to advance



9
central and state-level progress on modifying the incentive/target system for sterilisation and
promoting a broader method mix, throughi choice of appropriate key indicators for progress
in fimily planning diversification and support of pilot schemes for mcre effective delivery of
tenorary methods, including state-wide use of a network of community-based link workers
who would hold stocks of contaceptive supplies and distribute them to users.
able 1
sUa of Ihe rotect to Oe Acieo PHua  or  vanagg the FamEv We.              r
Pian Comonetll                   Corespoding Specific omens In Project                     Rerence
1. NadoW                       Strong JEC conent including auenin to opinn leaders         Annex 13 on EC Stateges
2. St o Olity,                 Constuction t, ebabiiin of infastructue includi  in         Pams. 4.12-4.14,4.17
temote ad tribal areas
Deav lopmt of nm  baining modules iludig conunucauns    Parm. 4.31, Annex 11 on
akflla                                                      Training Sategis
Mainanm     usym  for buildings, equinwtd, vehicles         Pams. 4.16-17,4.24-26,
Amnex 12 on Logidics
Annex S on Model Building Plans
Sunpervson yrov ene   throgh better daff motbit             Pan. 4.18
NW Planin8                                                  State Ptoposals
Improvement in ANM in, wtoring condio  tuhug b f            Parms. 4.15,4.18,4.19,
SC  dn, bee mobility, additional ain, communy-              ad corresponding Annxes
based a""ol workers
3. aDe¢I StWats. 90 DWi.       Sub-ceaft c ecm                                             Par. 4.14
tesive trining of daff                                      Par. 4.23
Piloftin of likwot  scheme and lin  wih ICDS pram           Pam. 4.19, Annex 10 on
Community vostwWorkr
voDvemet of DC In poect                                     Pams. S.17, Annex S
4.                             Inovivo schehm to re-orient tarts (Rajsth                   Pars. 4.36, Aanex 1S on
Inovativ Schms
Innoatschem  for community-baed ives Kamatak)               Annex 1I
S. Pmoo of Soacnu  Mthods  Depotholig, social mating and CID sceme                         Pan. 4.19,4.29-430
Annexes 10, iS
Ipoveme  of FP logtcs                                       Pars. 4.244.26, Annex 12
6. U!JMP CH Pmgrsm             bkImpem          of CSSM pacwg  (FRUs and other MCH)        Pam. 4.13-4.14 and pasm
ia Anexes 10, 11, 13, 1S
7. Utban Am Schsn              Not Applcable
i. Vilb4e agolill Guid Sdve    Revitas         of communty volmtee concept in all st       Pam. 4.19, Annex 10



10
9. QIM       T    so       Review and naisatuon of trtining ifstcture in all states  Pams. 4.21-4.23, Amex I I
Coordination of tmaining infiratrutrs                Pana. 4.22, Annex 11
10. 13C  uStengdn                   naSd expandonof MSS sch me                   Pars". 4.19, 4.29, Annexes 10, 13,15
Developmnt of tmaditional media sad in mersona1 comnunication   Pars. 4.31-4.32, Annex 13
Detaled (statelvel) marWis prodwtion                 Pam. 4.31, Annex 13
Provisioa of ample, earmarked IEC budgts             Annex 18 on Cost Tables
WEV for mals                                         Annex 13
Ful use of capabilies of Rajasthn WC bumeau          Pam. 4.31, 5.20, Annex 13
11. bnvboleof NCOsB        -deutication, retment, uwe of NGOs at local level     Pares. 4.28-4.30, Annexes S. 10
at local Ied                                         13,15
Further development of NOO prcedues in all stes      Pas. 4.28-4.30
Provision of more donor funds for NGOs               Pas. 4.28-4.30
12.   Ur intpemW           Muldeectora proect governing boards in dae (with Chief  Pare. 5.1 1, Annex 21
aUimi23              Secretay involved)
DistrIct4level DC, ZilMa Parished, DRDA etc. involvemen  Parm. 5.15, 5.17, Annex 21
in project implentaio                                Stae Poject Proposs
i/ For detas of conten of each conent, see parn. 3.12 and Annex 2
C. IDA Involvement and Experience In Family Welfare
3.16         IDA Involvement in the Sector: Beginning in 1973, IDA has supported nine
projects in the population/primary health/MCH sector. Eight of these were labelled
Populon or Family Welfre projects, while the ninth was called the Child Survival and
Safe Motherhood (CSSM) Project. All have supported the Family Welfare program or its
forerunners. The first three projects have already closed; the fourth is closing shortly; three
are under implementation; and the most recent has just been signed. The Social Safety Net
Credit currently under implementation also contains provisions designed to support the
Family Welfre program.
3.17         The history of IDA support in this sector has been one of gradually broadening
scope and widening coverage across India. The underlying theme throughout has been
investment in the Family Welfare program  (or its forenunners), to build up its service
delivery infrastructure, strengthen its support systems, and improve the quality of services
delivered.
3.18         The first three projects (the Flrst, Second and Third Population projects, or
India Population Project MIP 1, II and III), effective in May, 1973, June, 1980 and May,
1984 respectively, were relatively modest in scope; in fact the term "Area Projects" came
into use within GOI to describe their type of operation. They supported the building of



ll
infrstrcture in selected districts of a few states, plus strengthening of selected aspects of
suppt systems (training, IEC, MIS, operational resch) at either district or state level.
The states covered were Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka in the first project, Uttar Pradesh and
Andhim Pradesh in the second project, and Kerala and Karnataka in the third project.
3.19      With the Fourth Population Project (EPP IV), effective December, 1985, the
scope and coverage of IDA assistance expanded. Though the project was confined to one
medium-sized state, West Bengal, the entire state and all aspects of the program were fully
covered and a new region of India was brought into the network. In the ifth Population
ProJect (EPP V), effective December, 1988, the assistance network extended still further to
go beyond the predominantly nrur focus of the first four projects and launch support to all
aspects of Family Welfare services in urban slum populations. The two cities chosen to test
out this new area for IDA involvement, again in previously untouched states of India, were
Bombay (in Maharashtra) and Madras (in Tamil Nadu), and it was intended to extend support
to other major cities along the same lines in due course if the project proved successful.
3.20      A further broadening of scope occurred in the Sixth and Seventh Population
Projects (IPP VI aud 1PP VWD, effective February, 1990 and March, 1991 respectively,
which retuned to a rural focus. Each covered all program aspects in three and five states
respvely, including most of the north of India and some of its largest states. These stat
were Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Prdesh and Andhra Pradesh in the Sixth project, and Punjab,
Bihar, Gujarat, Harydna, and Jammu and Kashmir in the Seventh Project. Moreover, these
rojects focused additional attention on improving broad aspects of national program design
and performance where there were acknowledged long-standing deficiencies, including
taining, the involvement of NGOs, and social marketing of contaceptives.
3.21      The next project, the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood project (CSSM),
effective March, 1992, still with a rual focus, branched out from the previous conventional
investment and Area project approach. It adopted an even wider focus with elements of
progam and sector lending. Coverage was more or less national (the sixteen major states);
and the project provided direct budgetary support for the incremental costs to the MCH
programs incurred in the implementation of the Eighth Plan's MCH Plan (see para. 2.7). In
particular, CSSM supported the development of two new programs, UIP Plus and Safe
Motherhood.
3.22      The eighth project, the Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project (IPP VI,I),
effective April, 1994, retuned to the urban sector in order to carry out the intended
broadening of IDA assistance to urban slum populations along the lines of the successflly
implemented Fifth Project It covers four large cities in different parts of India (Bangalore,
Calcutta, Delhi and Hyderabad) and provides for prepartion of projects for 15 cities more.
3.23      The CSSM proect, effective March, 1992, also is helping to put some parts of
the Action Plan strategy into action, as mentioned in parm. 3.13. In particular, it is
strengthening the UIP and UIP Plus programs, and support is included under the Safe



12
Mothaehood program for birth spacing methods and the creation of infrastructure in the 90
backward disticts for first referral units. The Sixth and Seventh projects, now nearing their
midpoints, are likewise designed to support the rationalisation of training, the involvement of
NMOs and the broadening of access to a wider range of contraceptive methods through social
marketing. And under the Social Safety Net Credit, effective December 1992, G01 has
increased the standard allocation of drugs to Family Welfare facilities and begun planning
and implementing of special interventions in the 90 backward districts.
3.24      Thus the IDA lending program in Family Welfare has now reached the point
where it is supportng program change and development at national level, most recently in
the framework of the Action Plan. In addition, it has expanded its geographic coverage of
investment in strengthening of the Family Welfare program to the point where almost all the
major states and largest cities have been brought into the network.
3.25      IDA Eperience in the Sector The first thee projects, all of them "Area" in
pproach, have already closed (see the Project Completion/Audit Reports for the First,
Seod and Third Population Projects, Report Nos. 3748, 8896 and 12278 respectively). In
thee projects, physical objectives have been largely met. However major problems in
implementation of civil works components have been :ommon, including delays, poor quality
of work, and failure to maintain buildings. Problems in maintaining facilities has been
marked in Kamataka. Programmatic objectives in service delivery, training, MIS and IEC
have also been largely met. However one major problem has surfaced concerning the siting
of sub-centres. This has not been adequately monitored to ensure that the safety of the ANM
is procted through a central location in the community; hence ANMs, who are the
backbone of the Family Welfare system, frequently do not live in the community they serve,
are not available for out-of-hours emergency services such as deliveries, and are handicapped
in their efforts to integrate themselves fillly into the communities. In addition, it has proved
difficult to integrate prqect and program management and there have been frequent failures
to absorb and sustain project progms and activities in routine program implementation after
project closure. Financial management of the projects has been characterised by persistent
problems in achieving timely and adequate flows of funds to them. Delays have been
common at every stage of the flow.
3.26      The wider and long-term Impact of the first three projects on program
edfecthves, and sdll more on trends in fertity, mortaLity and population growth, has
been mixed. This was due partly to their restricted scope and the implemc-ntation problems
mentiond above.
3.27      Among on-going projects, the Fourth and Fifth projects are in their last stages.
By and large, these two projects have not only met their physical and progrmmfatic
objectives, such as viruly complete immunisation coverage and contraceptive prevalence
rates of close to 60 percent, but have also registered a significant impact, in the form of
reductions in infant mortality and fertility among the populations covered. They have been
manged and implemented well, and their widened scope has removed some of the



13
constraints on the earlier projects in achieving, impact. This indicates that the basic approch
of the Population projects is sound in these circumstances.
3.28        Experience in the Sixth and Seventh projects and CSSM  is still at an early stae
and it is too soon to evaluate impact. Generally speaking, implementation progress has varied
from good to very slow across states and across components; the better-administered states
and project management units, and the most closely-monitored programs such as
immunisation, generally are performing best. Thus the quality of program and project
management and monitonng has emerged as a key determinant of project success. Close and
supervison by IDA with a focus on field supervision and early identification of emerging
issues is also proving to be critical to project performance, particularly in the less-advantagd
states or project agencies. On the financial side, there have been continued problems with
flows of funds in these rural-focused projects.
3.29        In addition, in all the on-going projects there is a major problem with a slow
pace of disbursements regardless of the status of progress in actual implemental ou. A
portfolio-wide investigation into the reasons for this problem is currently underway, and is
revealing serious delays at every stage of the disbursement process. Steps are being taken to
improve practices throughout the system. This initiative is being coupled with a new system
for close monitoing of flows of project funds and disbursements by GOI and IDA. These
mueasres are expected to improve the outlook for disbursement performance of all projects in
the future.
3.30        The concerns and problem areas identified above have been addressed to the
extent possible through project design, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2
Lesson AnnIfe From IDA Exoerlenc in Family Welfar Lending
Lessos             Correspondinig Actin Taken in Ptoject                 Refece
1. Restrited Scope    Project suppott to program is statewide,          Pam. 4.3
of Project      except for resticdon of infrastucture extension
Interventions   to backward or neglected distocts in Rajhan and Kamataka
2. Deign of Projet   Project management systens designed to              Pames. 4.22-4.23, 4.24-426,
Management Must  involve progrm management dunng project               433-4.34,5.10-.22
Promote Maximum  life and achieve smooth transfer afRr project         Annexs 11, 12, 21
Integration with    closure through coordination systems, temporary
Program          deputaton of FW, PWD staff to project, and
in Long-term    long-term benefits to progrm through training
provision of extra equipment, logistis faciLtes and
office space



14
1as                 Corrapoddig Action Takef b ProJect                        Referen
3. Likelihood of    Involvenent of program management desoribed above         As for 2. above
Absorption and    eoxpcted to promote ownership and protecton               Annex 20
Sustaining of     of project-inithted progmams and actvities
Project Progmn,   also basing of design of project progams on
Actviies Needs    sateprpa   assessments and sategies for
To Be Maxim3zed   sub-secdos; faul state-level analyses of project
usuainbity done with states
4. Trimly and       Empowered Committee Systm set up in all                   Paras. 5.11, 7.1, 7.3
Adequate Flows of  sats to ensure smooth trasfer of funds within
Funds to Project    states; assumanoes provided by stas that full powrs
Need to be        will be guaranteed to them; assurance provided by
Assured           GOI that annual review of project expedius  and
esource requirements wil be caffied out with IDA in order
to ensure adequacy of budgets for project
S. Qulty and        Projeot management units set up to be efficient           PRas. 4-334.34, 5.10-.22
ctxveness of    and adequately-staffed for woldoad; assuances               Annxs 14, 23-26
Project           provided by dsates that project director/
Manage_nt Needs  coordinator and all other management staff will
to be Assured to    in place six months from project effectiveness;
Maxinum Extent   MIS strengthening and managemen traing included in prject
Possible          deailed guidelines for Implementation included in SAR
and also for reporting, monitoring and evaluation; assurances
prvided by states on adherence to guidelines for reporting,
monitoring and evaluation
6. Implemetai  of  Adequate staffing of project mnagement civil wors for      Pan. 5.17,
Civil Wors Poor   field supervision; implementing agencies carefuly         Annexes S, 21, 25
appaised; rgar field supervision by local consultant
included in Supervision Pln
7. Maintenance of   Assurances provided by sates that maintenance will be     Paras. 4.16.4.17, 7.3, 7A
Buildings and     adequtely budgeted and implemented during project period;
Equipment Poor    rehabilitaon or renovation of facilities included in project;
assurance provided by lamnatak that al facilities
in state in need will be renovated under state funding if not
included in project; funds for maintenance duriAg project period
included in project; Assam to set up program for maintenance of
faclities by communities
8. Siting of Sub-   Critera establse for location and siting of sub-centrs    Parms. 4.8, 4.15, 5.35, 7.3
Centres Neods to   including secure cental positioning to protect safety of ANM  Annexes 3, 6
Assure Safety of    and ensure her residence; assurances provided by states that the
ANM, So Nat She  will adhete to criteria; perentage of ANMs resident included in key
Can Reide in      project indicators, for use of which assurances provided by isates
Communyit



15
IV. THE 3 RNIf
A. Project Rationale and Scope
4.1       Country Assistance Strategy: The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
(May 12, 1994) is to support GOI's efforts to provide an enabling environment for broad-
based, efficient, private sector-led growth while accelerating the development of human
resources. A major aim of the strategy is to enhance access to and quality of basic social
services for the poor and to support well-targeted safety net programs that protect the most
vulnerable groups in Indian society. IDA assistance will focus on raising nutritional levels,
reducing fertility, reducing morbidity and mortality from key endemic diseases; and raising
educational attainments; and special emphasis will be put on improving access and efficiency
and improving outcomes, as well as strengthening of links between the public and the private
and PVO sectors. The focus will be almost exclusively on the poor, with special attention to
girls, scheduled trbes and scheduled castes. Assistance to the Family Welfare program,
which provides free maternal and child health and family planning services to mostly poor
beneficiaries, is central to this country assistance stategy. The program contributes to human
capital development through fertlity reduction, which cuts population growth and child
dependency burdens, thus permitting greater investment in fewer children. It also provides
direct health and welfare benefits to mothers and young children in the poorest and most
vulnerable sections of society. This project supports the Family Welfare program in three
states, with a focus on service delivery to the underserved and isolated communities of each
state, which are generally the poorest, and to tribal and other minority groups.
4.2       Sectoral Staity: The thrust of IDA Family Welfare assistance over the years
has been twofold. The first principle has been to widen Investment In program
strengthening across India, in order to ensure ftat all states benefit from adequate program
infrastructure and support services. The second principle has been to deepen support for
policy change and program adjustment, in order to address long-standing deficiencies that
are restricting the program's full potential.
4.3       This project would provide a state-level vehicle for completing IDA's long-term
program of investment in the Family Welfare program in important states not previously
covered under IDA projects. It would strengthen program services in a key state targeted for
special attention in the Action Plan (Rajasthan) and in another state of high priority because
of the lag in program development imposed in part by past security problems (Assam). In
addition, it would seek to follow up and build on the previous F.irst and Third Population
prqject interventions in Karnataka which did not realise their full potential. In each state, the
project would target the poorest and most backward areas for extension and upgading of
program infrastructure, while at the same time modifying statewide program strategy and
strengthening its performance along the lines laid out by the Action Plan.
4.4       As a state-level investment vehicle, the project cannot and does not fully address



16
the second sectoral assistance principle of policy change and adjustment in the Family
Welfare program at central and national level. This will be taken up in subsequent lending
directed towards sectorially and policy oriented operations, in consistency with another
element of the country assistance strategy which caUs for IDA lending to shift over time
from investment lending to time-slice and sector approaches aimed at sector-wide
strengthening. These sector operations would address major weaknesses in key aspects of the
progrwn, with special attention to revamping and diversification of the family planning
program.
4.5       Meanwhile, this project will act as a bridging operation between the previous
series of projects designed to build up Family Welfare inf*structure and support systems in
needy states and a future program of policy-based sector lending. In itself, it would
substanty improve the performance of the currently weak Family Welfare program in
these three states through the strengthening of program infrastructure and support systems
necessary to maximise program coverage, accessibility and quality, as well its many
innovative initiatives to improve on current service delivery approaches in conformity with
the Acdon Plan strategy. Hence it would be worthwhile on these grounds alone. In addition,
loolkng to the future, the prqect would endow these thrMe states with the indispensable basis
of a strong, well-functioning program structure needed for effective implementation of future
policy development in the program.
4.6       Without this project, it is likely that the Family Welfare program would perform
much less effectively in Assam, Rajasthan and Knataka and would provide a much less
solid base for future program improvements. Given current financial difficulties, needed
investments in infrastructure and progam strengthening would probably be seriously delayed
in the three states, thus particularly affecting the poorer population groups and more
backward areas. It is likely that these states would also be very slow to put improvements
and innovatons advocated by the Action Plan into effective practice without donor-assisted
interventions to provide specific opportunitie- for it.
B. Project Objetives
4.7       The project's objectives and content are linked to the national and state Action
Plans for Revamping the Family Welfare program, as laid out in Table 1, and covers a
substantial part of the investment needed for implementaion in these three states. It has two
inter-related objectives. The first is to strengthen and improve the functioning of the Family
Welfare programs in Assam, Rajasthan and Karnaak  The second is thereby to lower
current levels of fertility and matenal and childhood mortality in the three states. During
negotiations, GOI provided an assurance that it will implement the Acton Plan for
Revamping the Family Welfare Program (para. 7.1 )); and the States of Assam, Rajasthan
and Kamataka provided assurances that they will implement the state Ac-Wn Plans (m  7.3
-4.8      Tfhe achievement of the first objective will be evaluated through trends in the key



17
intermediat progran indicators spelt out in Annex 3. These indicators are linked to key
elements in components of the Action Plan; the most important are shown in Table 3 below:
Table 3
Key Proe  Ialktemedieh
Key Intenmediate Indk_ar                                Cortspolug Action Plan
Compont
Percent of SCs with own building                                2
Percet of SCs with resident ANM                                 2
Tminin
Percent of PW personnel rceiving                                3,9
specified types of in-service training
Pcent of households aware of                                    10
specified IEC messag
Famil PlYninn and Method Mix
Contreptive pevalnce rate, temporary methods                    5
Contaceptve prevalnc rate, pennnt methods                       S
Conraceptiv prvalne  ae, al methods                             5
UPI and Child Healh
Percet of young children fully immunised                        6
Percent of diarhoea cases receiving ORT                         6
Percent of young children receiving vitamin A supplements       6
Safo  ofe di
Perent of pregnant women receiving antenatal came,              6
mcluding iron supplemens and tetanus imunatin
Percent of delivenes taJdng place at all insdtutions            6
Percent of deliveries aking place at FRUs
Percent of delveries assisted by tained personad                6
4.9          The achievement of the second objective will be assessed  hough trends in the
key demographic indicators on which the national and state Action Plans also focus. These
are spelt out in Annex 3, and will include the total fertility rate, the infant mortality rate, and
matemal mortality data, by districts or groups of districts where appropriate.
4.10         A major project focus will be the development of supplementary outreach and



18
community-based linkge systems, supported by improved community-targeted IEC. Success
in this area will be assessed through reriodic evaluations of the schemes implemented.
Another major project feature will be the improvement of program access and quality of
semices in remote and backward areas, and among tribal and nomad populations. Success in
this area will be assssed through special studies and service statistics.
C. Project Content
4.11      The content of the project will differ in detail from state to state, in keeping with
the disaggegated approach to program design and planning advocated in the Action Plan.
Overal project structure and approach will be similar however. Five components will cover.
(1) Strengthening of Family Welfare Service Delivery
(2) Improvement of Family Welfare Service Quality
(3) Strengthening of Demand Generation Activities
(4)  Strengthen  of Program Management and Implementation Capacity
(5)  Flexible Fund for Innovative Schemes and Project Preparation
Conponent (1); Strengftening of Family Welfare Service Delivery (US$ 55.2 million)
4.12      This component wil support: a) the extension and upgrading of Family Welfare
infrastructure in underserved areas; and b) the strengthening of outreach and community
linkages. Its purpose is to provide the essential infrastructual underpining and broadening
of outreach networks that are needed to improve the coverage and peetration into the
commuimty of Family Welfre services and IEC in the  ree states.
4.13      Extension and Ugading of FW Infrastructure in Underserved Areas: The
project will support the establishment of an adequate network of Family Welfare service
delivery facilities in underserved areas through construction of new facilities and
rehabilitation or upgrading of existing facilities. The major activity will be construction and
equipping of purpose-built buildings for sub-centres, which are mostly functioning now in
rented accommodation. Construction, upgrading or rehabilitation of PHC and CHC buildings
and equipment will also be carried out; this will include the fitting up of a certain number of
CHCs and lower-level hospitals to function as first referral units for obstetric emergencies.
The project will fund civil works, furniture, equipment and materials. A list of all civil
works to be undertaken under the project is given in Annex 4; model plans for new sub-
centre buildings are shown in Annex 5.
4.14      In Rajasthan, underserved areas occur throughout the ten western districts, all
of which are included in the Action Plan's 90 priority districts, and also in all other districts



19
in the case of FRUs. The project will: construct, fiunish and equip 860 sub-centre buildings
in partn-.ship with the District Rural Development Authorities (DRDAs) and with selected
NGOs (see Annex 5); construct, furnish and equip 25 new PHCs; and upgrade 210 CHCs
into FRUs across all districts of Rajasthan, of which 148 will require additional construction
and all 210 will require additional equipment and furniture. In Asssm, underserved areas are
found mainly in riverine or hill districts. The project will: construct, firnish and equip 800
sub-centre buildings; renovate 50 existing sub-centre buildings; construct ANM quarters at 88
existing PHCs; upgrade 100 existing state dispensaries into PHCs; renovate 39 CHCs or
Civil Hospitals that are to become FRUs and upgrade facilities in another 37 of them. In
Karnataka, underserved areas are located within 13 districts mostly not covered by previous
IDA projects. The project will: construct, furnish and equip 1,039 sub-centre buildings, 94
new PHC buildings and 271 doctors' quarters at existing PHCs; renovate 2,212 existing sub-
centres, 327 PHCs and 48 CHCs, and upgrade 72 CHCs into first referral units.
4.15      In response to previous IDA experience (see Table 2), particular attention wil be
given to the selection of suitable sites for the sub-centre buildings within the community
boundaries, with the purpose of ensuring that they are central enough to assure the ANM's
personal security and hence her residence in it. Criteria have been established for site
selection which must be satisfied if a given sub-centre is to receive a building and for the
selection of communities to be endowed with a building for their sub-centre (Annex 6).
During negotatons, the States of Assam, Rajasthan and Kamataka provided assurances that
they will adhere to the selection criteria for location and siting of sub-centres laid out in
Annex 6 (para. 7.3 (g)) in the construction of all sub-centres built during the project period
under either project or non-project funding. A list of communities to receive buildings in the
first year of the project is given in Annex 7.
4.16      The project will provide funds for needed maintance of buildings and
equipment provided under the project during the life of the project. During negotiations, the
States of Assam, Rajasthan and Karmataka provided assurances that they will ensure that
adequate resources are provided on a timely basis, through a series of measures agreed with
the Association, for the maintenance of Family Welfare facilities and wiU ensure that the
facilities are adequately maintained (para. 7.3 (h)).
4.17      In Karnataka, the maintenance of Family Welfare facilities, including those
constructed under the First and Third Population projects, has been exceptionally deficient
(see para. 3.25.). Rehabilitation of these and other existing facilities in the state outside the
thirteen project districts would not be supported under the project; but a parallel program for
their reabiitation will be carried out during the project period under state funding. The
State of Karna ka also provided an assurance during negotiations that it would: (a) begin by
July 1, 1995 implementation of a program, to be funded out of state non-project funds, of
adequate rehabilitation of Family Welfare facilities constructed prior to the project, which
will be carried out according to a timetable agreed with the Association; and (b) furnish to
the Associaton evidence of satisfactory implementation of the rehabiitation program (para.
7.4).



20
4.18      Strengthening of Outreach and Community Linkages: The project will support
several schemes designed to improve access, outreach and program linkages with the
community; some will be funded under this component and some under innovative schemes,
but all are described here in order to give the full picture. Mobile clinc using either boats
or vans will be established in areas where stationary facilities are not suitable: these include
nvernne islands and sparsely-populated hill tribal areas in Assam and remote and sparsely-
populated desert areas in Rajasthan. A model plan for the 3 boats to be used for mobile boat
clinics in Assam is shown in Annex 8. Either mobile clinics (vans, camel carts) or the
already tested and effective system of rural health camps, or a combination of both, will be
set up in Rajasthan to cover pockets of population in remote and inaccessible areas (see
paras. 4.35, 4.36). Mobile health teams will be established in Karnataka to cover the
remoter tribal communities (paras. 4.35, 4.36). Transport (eeps, cars, motorbikes, mopeds
and bicycles) will be provided for Family Welfare facilities and staff for program outreach
and supervision, using revolving-fund loan schemes and private-sector hire where feasible
and cost-effective. The project will finance the costs of vehicles, vehicle hire, vehicle loan
capital and opeatng costs for these outreach schemes.
4.19      To replace the dying or defunct Health Guide schemes, as advocated in the
Action Plan, each state will also establish and support a network of community-based
volunteers to assist the ANMs in EEC and motivation, besides acting as an informal liaison
between the communty and the program and holding community stocks of supplies such as
contraceptives, slected drugs, Oral Rehydration Salts (ORS) packets and iron tablets. In
Aam, the volunteers will be called Women Health Ptomoters (WHPs) and each cover 60
households; they will receive performance-based awards, and can also obtain taining to be a
dai. They will report to the ANM and the local MSS (Mahila Swastha Sangha, or women's
group). In Kamataka, Health Advisory Committees (HAC) will be formed for each sub-
centre, comprsing both program and community representatives. Each HAC will in tun
recruit one community volunteer, caled a link worker, per village, who would be rewarded
rough performance-based honoraria. In Rajasthan, a variety of approaches will be tried
out, including expansion of an existing community-based distrbution system for
contaeptive supplies, and the setting up of link worker schemes (connected with new MSS
groups) which will be under NGO management or training, or in partnership with the ICDS
system. Details of schemes for each state are given in Annex 10. The project will support
training, kdts and awards/honoraria for community volunteers.
Component (2); Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services (US$ 23.8 million)
4.20      This component supports a set of initiatives, as advocated in the Action Plan, to
improve service quality in the areas of training, medical supplies, logistics, and the
involvement of Private Voluntary Organisations (PVOs). Its pufpose is to improve the
acceptability, uptake and impact of Family Welfare services in the three states.
4.21      Training: In aU three states, Family Welfare truining institutions and programs
will be rationalised and strengthened in the light of an overall training strategy and plan for
I



21
the Family Welfare program in each state. These are summarised in Annex 11. They wete
based on the findings of Training Needs Assessments carried out as part of project
preparation, which are summarised in Annex 16. Existing training systems are also described
in Annex 11.
4.22      The training strategies focus particularly on the establishment of a strong in-
service FW trining program, and include action to strengthen training capacity and improve
taining quality, uptake and management. An important element will be the creation in each
state of an apex training body, called a State Institute for Health and Family Welfare
(SIHFW) which will manage and coordinate training programs and planning for the Family
Welfare program, including materials development and maintenance of the training
information system, provide training for all FW training staff plus selected specialist training
of FW staff (such as management training of Medical Officers), and carry out evaluation,
follow-up and operational research on FW training programs and courses. Other important
elements of the strategies will include the creation, expansion or strengthening of networks of
Health and Family Welfare Training Centres (EFWTCs) and other in-service and pre-service
training institutes, development of training modules, and selected twning activities. The
project wil support the construction, rehabilitation or upgrading, and equipping of training
facilities as required by the strategy, transport for training facilities and staff, the salaries of
new posts created, the production of training materials, and the costs of selected in-service
raining activities.
4.23      Key activities in all states will include creation of an SIHFW. In Rajasthan this
will entail construction of the entire establishment; Assam will upgrade the Guwahati
HFWTC; and Karnataka will construct an office building for SIHFW office staff to
complement a new training facility constructed recently under the Third Population project,
which is to be transferred to the SIHFW's use. In addition, Rajasthan will strengthen existing
Regional Health and Family Welfare Training Centres and establish one new RHFWTC,
while Karnataka will expand one existing HFWTC and construct a new building for another.
Assam will expand the capacity of existing Rural District Training Centres (for in-service
training), while Rajasthan will upgrade 15 ANM training schools into District Training
Centres, and Karnataka will establish 19 new District Training Centres. Assam will upgrade
16 Government ANM training schools (for pre-service training) while Karnataka will provide
bildings for seven existing ANM taining sehools and a new building for an existing LHV
Promotional training school. Rajasthan will form and train Block Training Task Forces,
Assam District and Block training teams, and Karnataka district training teams. All states
will also carry out extensive in-service training courses for FW staff in skills and aspects of
performance  -.ntified as ihs need of strengthening.
4.24      Prog.m Logistics In all three states, Family Welfare program logistics as
regards transport and procurement and distribution of medical supplies have been very
inadequate. Kamatala has already taken some independent action on this, but in Assam and
Rajasthan the project will support rationalivation and strengthening of program logistics on
the basis of strategies drawn up and agreed upon as part of project preparation. These are



22
summatised in Annex 12.
4.25      In Assam, support will go to: construction of warehouses at headquarters and
district level, plus storage and material-handling equipment for new stores; provision of data
processing equipment for computerised inventory control; and selected upgrading of transport
workshops for specialised functions, plus appropriate tools and equipment. In addition,
innovative schemes will be funded to test in two districts the concept of using hired vehicles
for field supervision and to finance training in drug management and quality control, plus
technical assistance for inventory management (see paras. 4.35, 4.36).
4.26      In Rajasthan, support will go to: construction of one central and 30 district
warehouses, plus storage and material-handling equipment, vehicles for emergency deliveries
and costs of additional staff salaries and training; upgrading of the drug-testing laboratory,
plus laboratory equipment and supplies and salaries of additional staff; provision of data
processing equipment for inventory management; and costs of technical assistance for making
an inventory of FW program equipment and preparing standard lists of equipment and drugs.
In addition, innovative schemes will be funded to conduct a pilot experiment in cost recovery
for drugs through a revolving drug fund and to test in the Western districts the concept of
using hired vehicles for field supervision (paras. 4.35, 4.36).
4.27      Dgsand Medical Supplies: In all three states, inadequate supplies of
medicines and other essential medical supplies are a crucial constraint on the quality and
effective functioning of Family Welfare Services. In all three states, an essential drugs list
for the Family Welfare program will be established (see Annex 12), and all drug purchases
will be confined to items on that list. All three states will also carry out a survey of drug and
other medical supplies requirements, and formulate and implement a sustainable financing
plan for meeting them. Until the plan is in operation, the states will mobilise sufficient
incremental funds to supplement annual central Family Welfare program allocations up to the
annual financing levels laid down as norms by the Planning Commission. During
negotiations, the States of Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka provided assurances that they will
ensure that adequate supplies of drugs and other medical materials are made available to sub-
centres, PHCs and FRUs on a timely basis, by, inter alia: (a) establishing an essential drugs
list for Family Welfare program drug purchases by December 31, 1994; (b) from January 1,
1995 onwards, purchasing all drugs for the Family Welfare program, under either project or
non-project funding, solely from among items on the essential drugs list; and (c) mobilising
incremental resources for drugs and other medical supplies for Family Welfare facilities
(par. 7.3 (i)).
4.28      Involvement of NGOs/PVOs: In all three states, a detailed program to nhance
the involvement of PVOs in Family Welfare program activities is to be developed and
implemented under project funding. They are planned to be most active in service delivery,
IEC and innovative schemes. The management of PVO involvement will vary from state to
state.



23
4.29      The role of PVOs will be particularly important and varied in Rajastban, where
large numbers of NGOs already operate in the field of health and Family Welfare in
collaboration with the Health Department. Twenty four such NGOs registered interest in
participating in the project at an initial meeting, most with specific proposals for the kdnd of
activity they would like to undertake. The range of NGO involvement will include, in
addition to involvement in some sub-centre construcion (see paras. 4.13, 4.14): management
of, or participation in, service delivery in remote areas; an expanded scheme for community-
based distrbution of contraceptive supplies; social marketing of contraceptives; community
link worker and MSS schemes; and many Family Welfare training and EEC programs. The
program will be managed using the existing well-defined Grant-in-Aid procedures for funding
NGO schemes of a state standing committee to review all proposed schemes with the
Director of the IEC bureau acting as Nodal Officer for NGOs, but an NGO consultant will
be added to the EEC bureau staff to act as liaison with NGOs and assist them in project
formulation.
4.30      In Karnataka and Assam, the PVO presence and tradition is not as widespread as
in Rajasthan, and collaboration with health and family welfare programs is not as common,
particularly in Assam. Under the project, the first steps being taken in both states are the
dentification of PVOs with potential and development of procedures for bringing in and
managing their involvement. In Karnataka, the NGO program will be managed at the
district level. The MOs of PHCs will identify potential PVOs, including the MSS groups
proposed to be formed in large numbers shortly, and final selection of participants will be
made by the District Health Officer and the Chief Secretary of the Zilla Parishad.
Anticipated areas of involvement include FW service delivery and EEC, as well as
management of an innovative scheme to recruit and post tribal girls as ANMs in tribal areas.
In Assam, PVOs with potential for involvement have been identified and guidelines,
application formats, selection criteria and rates of assistance are being finalised for
publication as a booklet. In the longer run, an attempt will also be made to encourage
formation of new PVOs that can work with the Family Welfare program. The main areas of
collaboration wil be IEC, organisation of immunisation and steilisation camps, and
community-based distibution and social marketing of contraceptive supplies. Dunng
negotiations, the states of Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka provided assurances that they will
select NGOs for participation in the project in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed
with the Association (pam. 7.3 (m)).
Component (3); Strengthening of Demand Generation Activities (US$ 11.1 million)
4.31      The purpose of this component is to improve awareness, acceptance and uptake
of Family Welfare services in the three states. It supperts the rationalisation and
strengthening of IEC institutions and programs in the light of an overall EEC strategy and
plan for each state, as advocated in the Action Plan. These are summarised in Annex 13.
They were based on the findings of communication needs assessments carried out as part of
proect preparation, which are summarised in Annex 16. State EEC institutions and their
planning capabilities will be strengthened; Family Welfare service providers and community



24
volunteers will be trained in IEC and counselling skdlls; EEC materials will be developed and
produced; and a full range of IEC activities will be canied out with special attention to
segmenting of the market and targedng of key audiences with tailonnade messages.
4.32      Special feaues in the three states include: the experimental widespread use of
video vans in Karnatala an emphasis on commun:ty-level activities with maximum
community involvement in Assun; and the extensive involvement of NOOs in Rajasthan. The
prect wil support the salaries of any additional posts created, the costs of IEC training for
povis and volunteers, ansport and IEC equipment for IEC institutions and staff, the
costs of IMC mati production, including technical assistance, and the costs of IEC
activities, including technical assistance.
Comiponen (4); Sgtreng ing of Pamily Welfare Program Management (IJS$ 9.6 m;llion)
4.33      The purpose of this component is to improve the inanagement of the Family
Wefae program in the throe states, utilising the experience of past IDA Family Welfare
projects. It supports the strengt'ening of state Family Welfare program management and
implementation capacity through the development of MIS and planning capabilities and the
develpment and monitonng of special serice delivery strategies for populations witb special
needs. In all three states, the project will finance the costs of training in planning and
management for program management staff, as well as any needed technical assistance
provided under MOHFW supervi on to the project management. In Assam, the project will
so finance the consruction and eqwupping of a new office building for the Family Welfare
deprtmt, which currently operates in very crowded quarters; it will be used initially to
house the project directoate during the project's lifetime. In addition, the Area Project
division of MOHFW, which is responsible for superson of this and other Family Welfare
projects, will be strengthened by the addition of five posts and upgrading and
com-puteriztion of the Division's equipment.
4.34      The strengthing of each state's MIS will be based on an MIS strategy and plan
deveoped in each of the states (Annex 14). The project will finance the costs of: facility
upgrading to house computer systems; installadon and maintenance of the systems, including
chnical assistance; computers and other equipment and supplies; training in the use of
compute  and MIS; and technical assistnce for the setting up of MIS systems.
Cempoueut (5); Innovative Schemes/ Preparation of Further Investment Proposals (US$ 4.2
unio)
4.35      This component contains provision for two flexible funds. The first fund will
prvide flexible financig to the states for additional small pilot innovative schemes designed
tD improve service quality in the Family Welfare program, beyond the several innovative
approaches and progrms already financed under component 1. An indicative list of schemes
is given in Annex 15. The project will support the costs of pilot schemes plus their
evalato. The second fund will support preparation of rosals for investments similar to



25
those in this MW   for earlh of the North-Eastern states, other than Assam, which all have
heavily tribal populations. This fund will be managed by MOHFW.
4.36      Inngy    Shbemes Fund: In RPjasthan, key innovative schemes will include:
the development and testing of experimental service delivery strategies for reducing materal
and neo-natal mortality among tribal and migratory mothers and children, to be carried out in
one tribal and one nomad block by an NGO in collaboration with health authorities; special
promotion of institutional deliveries at selected sub-centres in the Westem districts;
development of an experimental broadly-based maternal health surveillance system;
experiments with alternative forms of mobility for staff in the sparsely-populated areas of the
Western disticts, such as use of camel carts; and a small-scale exercise to re-orient the FW
target system with involvement of FW personnel. In Assam, key schemes will include:
experimentation in two districts with the private-sector hire of vehicles for the bulk of the
Family Welfre fleet; small-scale experimentation with the phased replacement of
govemment workshops by private-sector facilities for vehicle maintenance; support to NGOs
who develop t'ieir own new initiatives in service delivery and IEC; and new approaches to
Family Welfare service delivery in selected tribal populations (see pama. 4.42). In
Ka1nataka, key schemes will include: a special sub-entre system for tribal areas with
scattred or inaccessible populations which will establish one sub-entre per 500 population
(rather than the usual tribal norm of 3,000 population) and make efforts to recruit and post
tbal women as their ANMs; the involvement of large industral firms in developing IEC
materials and financing air time; and assorted schemes for encouraging uptake of family
planning, particularly spacing methods. During negotiations, the states of
Assam, Rajasthan and Kanataka provided assurances that they will obtain approval from the
Association for selection of innovative schemes to be carried out under the project (para.7.3
4.37      Investment Preparation Fund: As an extension of the support provided to the
Family Welfare program in Assam, with its general lag in development and high
concentraion of tribal groups, funding will be provided for preparation of proposals for
investments in the neighbouring North Eastern States. These states also suffer from
developmental lags and are all heavily tribal in composition; they include Arunachal Pradesh,
Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. The project would finance for each
of tese states all costs of Beneficiary Needs Assessments, Training Needs Assessments,
Communications Needs Assessments, facility surveys and any other preparatory studies or
surveys required as a basis for investment preparation, as well the costs incurred in
producton of a finaLised investment proposal.
D. Panning for Tribal and other Special Population Groups
4.38      All three states contain significant tribal populatons. Data from the 1991 census
indicate that the percentages of state populations that are of tribal affiliation stand at 12
percent, 16 percent and 4 percent respectively in Rajasthan, Assam and Karnataka. In
addition, around two percent of Rajasdtan's population belong to nomad groups, whose



26
culture and way of life differ importantly from the bulk of the population.
4.39      In principle, the Family Welfare program covers these groups as part of its
normal functioning. There are however special difficulties in providing services and
generating demand among some groups that live in very remote areas, or are sparsely settled,
or are very mobile, or have particular cultural characteristics that inhibit service demand and
uptake.
4.40      In preparing the project, steps were taken in accordance with OD 4.20. To
identify and address any special tribal or nomad disadvantages under the project, special
needs assessments were carried out among major tribal and nomad groups in the three states.
These gathered data on health status and access to health and Pamily Welfare services among
each group relative to its non-tribal neighbors. At the same time, the objectives and scope of
the project were presented to tribal communities and discussed, in order to gain their views
on and informed consent to the project. The findings of these assessments are summarised in
Annex 16. On this basis, tribal strategies were prepared for remedying the disadvantages
found. These are summarised in Annex 17. During negotiations, the States of Assam,
Rajasthan and Karnataka provided assurances that they will implement fully their tribal
strategies as laid out in Annex 17 (para. 7.3 (1)). On the basis of the above, the projct
complies with the requirements of OD 4.20.
4.41      In Assam, which has a substantial tribal presence and an impressive history of
action to improve their status and progress in development (see Annex 17), much has already
been done. The state's Tribal Sub-Plan includes specific attention to health and Family
Welfare. Family Welfare program coverage norms have been adapted to the generally sparse
settlement patterns of the hill tribal groups, and a substantial infirastructure has been created
across all tribal areas in the state, consisting of two Civil (referral) Hospitals, 297 30-bedded
hospitals, 148 PHCs and 843 sub-centres. Further infrastructure will be created under the
project, as part of Component (1).
4.42      This stationary infrastructure will be supplemented under the project by mobile
health clinics offering a range of services equivalent to a PHC in tribal hill areas where
stationary facilities are not suitable. Traditional tribal methods of construction may also be
allowed for new sub-centre buildings in very remote areas where the logistics of standard
Government construction methods may be exceptionally difficult (see Annex 5), and
community participation in building or access road maintenance will be tried out. All other
components of the project will of course cover the program in tribal areas, but separate and
special efforts will be made in community linkage schemes and IEC activities to suit
particular needs in tribal communities. Suitable innovative schemes will be targeted to
pockets of tribal communities with specal disadvantages in order to try to remedy them. The
continuing participation of tribal communities in the project will be assured, as elsewhere,
through the community linkage schemes to be set up under Component (1) of the project.
4.43      In order to monitor progress in tribal areas, they will be individually tracked



27
tirough the MIS and regularly compared with overall progress. In addition, a repeat needs
assessment will be carried out as part of the project Midterm Review. In order to evaluate
the overall impact of the project among tribal populations, a further special tribal baseline
survey will be carried out at the start of the project, following the same methodology as the
recently completed National Family Welfare Survey in Assam; the state NFWS itself will
serve as comparator and yardstick (see Annex 23). The same tribal survey will be repeated at
the end of the project, and again compared with the state repeat survey. In this way, the
impact of the project among tribal populations can be evaluated both absolutely and in
comparison with state-level impact.
4.44      In Karnataka, the level of development and living conditions of tribal groups
vary greatly across the state. For some groups they are comparable to those of their non-
tribal neighbors, but other groups are classified as primitive and have poor living conditions
(see Annex 16). The state's Tribal Sub-Plan again includes specific attention to Family
Welfare, and program coverage norms are again more generous.
4.45      Under the project, mobile health teams will be established to supplement the
stationary program infrastructure by visiting areas identified as having particularly poor
health conditions. The teams will carry out health checks, immunisations, treatment of minor
ailments and referral of more serious illnesses. An innovative scheme to reduce sub-centre
coverage to a population of 500 and staff the new sub-centres with tribal ANMs will also be
tested (see paras. 4.35, 4.36). In addition, further in-depth studies of all tribal groups will be
conducted to identify any pockets with special needs, to be followed by special programs for
them, and special IEC and community efforts will be made in tribal areas. Monitoring and
evaluation will be carried out by separate MIS tracking of tribal areas and repeat tribal needs
assessments for the Midterm review and at the end of the project.
4.46      In Rajasthan, tribal and nomad groups are mostly concentrated in the south and
west of the state respectively. Family Welfare services for them have been neglected to date,
and are often unacceptable in their standard form because of different cultural norms. The
provision of adequate Family Welfare services for migratory populations is also inherently
difficult, and a special strategy for these groups will be developed after a special needs
assessment study covering the entire annual migratory cycle has been completed.
4.47      Under the project, mobile clinics and health camps will be used to supplement
the stationary infrastructure, with heavy involvement from NGOs. Innovative schemes to
improve maternal and newborn care among tnbal and migratory populations will be tested,
under NGO management. I addition, special IEC and community efforts will be made in
tribal and nomad areas, again with heavy NGO involvement. Monitoring and evaluation will
be carried out as in Kanataka.
4.48      No involuntary resettlement within any population group is expected to occur as
a result of the construction programs outlined in paras. 4.13-4.15, 4.23, 4.254.26 and 4.33
above.



28
V. ROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Cost Estimates
5.1         Summary of costs. The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes, is
estimated at about Rs. 4,409.8 million or US$ 103.8 million equivalent. The breakdown of
costs of the proposed project by component and categories of expenditure for the project is
summarized in Tables 4 and 5 below.
Table 4 - Cost by Component
(Run. Millibn)        tSUS Million)     %  X Totl
Fon  Be
Componn                 Jl    Po   Totl    tja   F.heiu  Toti             Costb
SfteglhiF.W. S DviceDdiveqy   15 59.1 39.2 1,699.0    46.0   4.1  50.1   8%   53%
ov.Qu.EtyofP.W. Servics   714.1  30.8  744.8    21.1    .9  22.0   4%   23%
4_aDing Demad for F.W. Services  339.2   8.8  348.0    10.0   .3  10.3   3%   11%
MggajotlImprovmt          276.9  21.0  297.9    8.2   .6   8.8   7%   9%
innovalvoscheSd           134.5   2.8  137.3    4.0   .1   4.1   2%   4%
Tdal BASELNE COSTS         3.024.5  202.5 3.227.1  9.-2  6.0  95.2  6%  100%
Phyacal Cogence           244.4  20.3  264.7    7.2    .6   7.8   as   8%
Ptic Coeiinicies          835.5  82.5  918.1     .2    .7    .8  78%   1%
Todd PROJECT COSTS         4,104 5  3053 4,409.8    96.6   7.2  103.8  7%  109%
5.2         Basis of cost estimates. Estimated costs for civil works are based on current unit
costs for construction which vary from US$ 70 to US$ 90 per square meter of gross floor
ar  of construction. These costs are reasonable for comparable IDA-assisted construction in
India. Costs of professional services for design reflect the scale of fees established for
similar services provided by local architectural consulting firms. Costs for supervision of
construction reflect the standard establishment charges of the Public Works Department
(PWD) in each of the project states. Estimated equipment, vehicles and educational
materials costs are product of lists developed by GOI and the project states, and include
import duties and taxes. Furniture and consumable material costs are based on GOI and the
state estimates and reflect current prices. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff
are based on basic pay scales including standard alowances for social and other benefits
applicable in the project states.
5.3         Customs duties and taxes. All imported goods are subject to customs duties and
taxes. The estimated cost of the project includes import duties and taxes estimated to cost at
about US$ 5.3 million.



29
Table 5 - Costs by Category of Expenditure
(RUneMi li_   ($US Millon)                              %    % TOtal
Foreign Bate
Loal   Foeis    Total        Jj         1E4m   Tobl    Exchan Cooc
nirvamt Coda
Civil Wo0*  (New)                  920.4    102.3  1.022.7        27.2      3.0     30.2    10%    32%
Civl Woarts (Rab & Upgrade)        256.3      28.5    284.8        7.6       .8      8.4     10%      9%
Fumnibur                            102.8     10.2    112.9        3.0       .3      3.3      9%      3%
Eqipmea                            201.6     27.5    229.1         5.9       .S      6.8    12%       7%
Vehicl                             120.0     13.3    133.3        3.5       .4      3.9    10%       4%
Books                                10.9      1.2     12.1         .3       .0       .4    10%
Tnbing Mal                          49.5       -       49.5        1.5               1.5       -      2%
IBC Mataril & Activitiea            144.9             144.9        4.3      -        4.3              4%
Hedb Kits                           43.6      4.8      48.5        1.3       .1      1.4    10%       2%
Loa Trag Sevice                    254.7       .      254.7        7.5               7.5       *      8%
LocalCo _uhantB                     33.3               33.3        1.0      .        1.0              I 1%
b3novativaScbe                      111.4             111.4        3.3      -        3.3              3%
Vchidl for Fld Staff (PART 2c)      167.8             167.8        4.9      -        4.9              5%
G,anr to NCOos                      70.0       -       70.0        2.1               2.1       -      2%
Gas%atolbwarnacyInts"                3.0                3.0        .1                 .1
FE:dWships                          15.0               15.0         A       -         A        -
Toad Iuvedmai Cod                    2.505.2   187.8  2.693.0        73.9      S.54    79.44    7X%       3%
Raasmmi Code
Ssiar  ofMAddidomlStaff             146.3      -      146.3        4.3      -        4.3              5%
Horaiumto Commuity Voheem           95.3               95.3        2.8      -        2.8              3%
T.AID.A. of Staff                    8.3                8.3         .2                .2
ConZmablI                           50.0       5.6     55.6        1.5       .2      1.6    10%       2%
Cil Wolb Maint                      SS.       -       5S.1        1.6               1.6       -      2%
Euinment & Flet Opemionand Maint   81.6                81.6        2.4      -        2A        *      3%
Mediie & Medcl Materal              82.6       9.2     91.8        2.4       .3      2.7    10%       3%
Tedl Reerrat Coa                       471.7     62.4    534.1       13.9      1.9      15.8    12%    17%
Tol   BASEWNE COSB                  3.024.5   202.5  3227.1         89.2         6.0  95.2      6%    10O%
Phsia Cstein                       244.4      20.3    264.7        7.2       .6      7.8      8%      8%
Price Cotigaeies                   835.5      82.5    918.1        .2        .7       .8    78%       1%
ToldiPROJECT COSTS                   4.104.5   30S.3  4,409.8        96.6      7.2    103.8      7%    109%
5.4              Contingency allowances. Estimated project costs include physical contingencies
(US$ 7.6 million) estimated at 10 percent of all physical components and at 5 percent for
salaries, local consultants and training services, and operation and maintenance costs. The
estimated costs of the project also include price contingencies (US$ 0.8 million) to cover
expected price escalation at the following rates. For civil works, goods, salares, technical
assistance, and operation and maintenance - foreign costs: 2.5 percent in FY95 through
FY2002; local costs: 6.5 percent in FY95, 6.5 percent in FY96, 5.5 percent in FY97, and 5
percent in FY98 through FY2002.
5.5              Foreign exchange component. The estimated foreign exchange component of
US$ 7.2 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as
follows: (a) civil works 10 percent; (b) furniture 9 percent; (c) equipment 12 percent; (d)
locally produced vehicles 10 percent; (e) health kits, books, consumables, medicines &
medical materials 10 percent.



30
B. FInancing Plan
5.6       The estimated total project cost of US$ 103.8 million will be financed by an IDA
credit of US$ 88.6 million equivalent, which would cover 89.9% of costs net of taxes. The
GOI would finance the remaining costs of US$ 9.9 million and all taxes.
C. Recurrent Costs and Sustanability
5.7       The Family Welfare program is funded almost entirely by GOI through
investment and operating budgets transferred to the states (the "Plan" budget), but a few
small and important expenses are borne by the states out of their own 'non-Plan" funds
(para. 3.2). During the implementation period -f the project, both investment and recurrent
costs will be almost entirely the responsibility of the center. The total additional FW program
expenditure required to finance recurrent costs during the implementation period will amount
to Rs. 44 milion at current prices, or only 0.4 percent of GOI's estimated total FW budget
of Rs. 12 billior, for FY94. Current central FW allocations for Assam, Rajasthan and
Karnataka would have to increase annually by only 5 percent, 2 percent and 2.5 percent
resectively. Even were the total FW budget not to increase in real terms, the implied
reallocation of resources between states would be modest and not distortionary. During
negotiations, GOI provided an assurance that it will carry out with IDA in December of each
year a review of the actual expenditures incurred under the project during that fiscal year,
and by March 31 of each year a review of the resources required for the project for the
following fiscal year, in order to determine that there will be full provision for that year's
planned project activities (para. 7.1 (a)).
5.8       More important is the issue of sustalnability of recurrent costs after project
completion. For Assam, annual recurrent costs generated by the project after completion
(including contingencies) are estimated at Rs. 34 million. This is equivalent to 12 percent of
Assam's estimated FY94 Family Welfare budget (Plan and non-Plan) of Rs. 283 million. For
RaWa&IOaM costs after completion are estimated at Rs. 64 million, or 8.4 percent of the
estimated FY94 FW budget of Rs. 760 million. For Karna, costs after completion are
estimated at Rs. 57 million, or 9.5 percent of the estimated FY94 FW budget of Rs. 601
million. For all three states combined, the annual recurrent cost burden generated by the
project after completion amounts to an estimated Rs. 155 million, or 9.4 percent of the FY94
budget of Rs. 1,644 million.
5.9       Of these Rs. 155 million annually, the FW Plan budget would bear about Rs.
146 million if the current Plan/non-Plan funding split of 94 to 6 percent respectively were
maintained. This is equivalent to 1.2 percent of the Rs. 12 billion FY94 FW Plan budget and
should not present any problem. The states would bear about Rs. 9 million, made up of Rs.
1.6 million in Assam, Rs. 4.3 million in Rajasthan and Rs. 3.4 million in Kamataka. These
small absolute additional amounts are clearly affordable, and are equivalent to increases of
12, 9 and 9 percent respectively in the three states' FY94 non-Plan FW budgets of Rs. 13,
49 and 38 million resectively.



31
D. Project Implementation
5.10      The project will be implemented by the states of Assam, Rajasthan and
Karnataka, with supervision from the Area Projects Division of MOHFW. Project
management in Assam and Karnataka will be established in three tiers, and in Rajasthan in
four tiers. Lists of staff or committee members plus organigramns are shown in Annex 21 for
the entire structure in all three states.
5.11      In all three states, the top of the project management tiers will be a state-level
Empowered Conunittee (Assam and Rajasthan) or Project Governing Board (Karnataka)
which will include high-level representation from all relevant parts of state government. This
body will be fully empowered to make major policy decisions, authorise transfers of funds
from the centre to the project and other financial approvals and sanctions, and monitor
overall project progress. During negotiations, the States of Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka
provided assurances that they will ensure that the Empowered Project Committees hold
regular meetings at a frequency adequate for effective project direction ani1 supervision, but
in any case at least twice a year (para. 7.3 (c)).
5.12      The second tier in all three states wil consist of a Project Management
Committee (Assam), Steering Committee (Karnataka) or Monitoring Committee
(Rajasthan), which will be principally composed of top-level managers from the state Health
and Family Welfare departments, plus the Project Director or Coordinator. These bodies will
supervise and monitor project implementation and report up to the state-level top-tier
committee.
5.13      In Rajasthan, there will then be an intermediate tier, the Project Secretariat.
This will be headed by the Secretary, Medical and Health, who will be the Chief
Coordinator of the Project. He will be assisted by the Special Secretary, Medical and
Health, who will be the Additional Chief Coordinator. They will review project
implementation and provide direction and guidance to the Deputy Secretary, Department of
Medical and Health, who will be Project Director and responsible for the implementation of
the project.
5.14      The bottom tier in all three states will be a project management unit or Project
Directorate which would carry out actual project implementation under a Project Director
(Assam), a Project Coordinator (Karnataka), or in Rajasthan, a Project Coordinator acting
under the Project Director (see preceding para.) and assisted by an Additional Director
(Project and Human Resource Development) who will actually manage implementation of the
project. In Karnataka, the Project Coordinator will be an Additional Director (Projects). In
Rajasthan, the Director, Family Welfare will be Project Coordinator for the project. These
project management units or directorates will be composed of the project director or
coordinator's office plus a range of technical Cells (Assam) or Wings (Karnataka and
Rajastban) (see Annex 21).



32
5.15      In Rajasthan, there wiU also be a parallel management structure of three tiers to
coordinate project activities at district level. At its bottom will be the district Chief Medical
and Health officers, who will have overall responsibility for implementing project acdvities
in the district. Each will be assisted by the Deputy CHMO for the district, who will acually
manage implementation of activities. The tier above will consist of a set of DIfstlit
Coordiuation Committees, each chaired by the District Collector and staffed by
representatives of relevant district departments, plus NGOs and community leaders. The
district CMHO will be the member secretary, and the committees would meet formally every
three months. The regional-level top tier will be composed of the Joint Directors of the
zone/division, who will coordinate the activities of the district CHMOS in that division and
act as a link between the Project Director and project directorate on the one hand and the
distnct coordination committees on the other hand.
S.l#     The technical Cells/wmgs under the project director/coordinator wil include
Engineering/Construction, Health Manpower Development/Training, IEC, and
MIES/Monitoring & Evaluation/Management units; Assam will also have a Mateials
Management Cell. Generally speaking, they will be staffed to the maximum extnt possible
through temporary deputation of appropriate staff from the Family Welfare program or other
corresponding state government departinents. The intention is that these staff should retm to
their programs or departments of ongign at project closure, to strengthen them permaendy
tirough the training and experience acquired on the project. Where needed, expertise would
also be recruited on a temperary basis from the private sector. No new government posts wil
be established.
5.17      The largest technical units will be the Engineering/Construction umts overseeing
the implementation o; civil works. These will be staffed mainly through deputation from the
state Public Works Department (PWD). The responsibilities of the units in Assam and
Karnataka will be to manage the contacting out of construction and other civil works to
private-sector architects and contractors and to supervise their performance either directly or
through local departments of PWD; and they will be structured and adequately staffed to
carry out full field supervision (Annex 21). The responsibility of the Rajasthan unit will be as
in the other states for buildings other than sub-centres. In the case of sub-centres, for which
construction will be primarily implemented through DRDA-managed Gram Panchayat
construction units with some involvement also from NGOs (see Annex 5), the role of the
project unit will be supervisory only.
5.18      In Assam there will also be a Materials Management Cell which will have three
functions. The first will be to oversee implementation of the logistics sub-component; the
second to manage all supplies of materials under the project; and the tiird to set up a
permanent material management system for the Family Welfare program. It will be staffed
largely through deputation from the Department of Health & Family Welfare.
5.19      The Training/Health Manpower Development units in Assam and Kamataka wil
oversee implementation of the training sub-omponent of the project; in Assam, the cell will



33
also take on the responsibility of managing human resources in the Family Welfar sector. A
Human Resources Development CeJl will be set up within the Family Welfare program in
Rajasthan with similar responsibilities. The units will be staffed by deputation from Health
and Family Welfare departments or associated training institutions.
5.20      IEC units will oversee the implementation of the EEC component of the project in
Assam and Karnataka; in Assam, the cell will also oversee programs to involve PVOs and
the pnvate sector in the Family Welfare program. Again, the units will be staffed from
Health and Family Welfare departments. In Rajasthan, the existing state Health and Family
Welfare IEC bureau will implement the project.
5.21      The MIES/Monitorng and Evaluation/Management units will have two functions
as implementors of the MIS subcomponent of the project. The first will be the tracking of
activities and progress in all other components in the project. The second will be to develop
and refine the existing Family Welfare program MIS in order to improve its scope and
effectiveness. The units wil be pardy staffed from Health and Family Welfare detments,
and partly coordinate with other technical MIS institutions in the state, such as the Nationa
Informatic Centre and (in Karnataka) the state Population Centre.
5.22      Under the project director or coordiator will also be a number of admir
and financial staff to carry out routine project administration and financial management.
These staff also will mostly be deputed from elsewhere in state government. During
negotiations, the States of Assam, Rajasthan and Kanataka provided assurances that they will
establish the full project management structure, including all Committees and technical units,
by October 30, 1994 (para. 7.3 (a)). They also provided assurances that they will engage al
other key additional staff to be recruited under the project by December 31, 1994 (para. 7.3
(b)). They also provided assurances that they will prpare and submit to IDA for approval by
January 31 of each year, annual civil works, training, MEC, MIS and service delivery plans
for the following fiscal year substantially in accordance with content and timetables embodied
in Annex 26 (para. 7.3 (d)).
E. Status of Project Preparation
5.23 Civil Works. Vehicles, Equipment. Lgistics: Model plans for buildings that ame
to be duplicated many times, such as sub-centres (Annex 5), MO quarters and some training
facilities, and plans for most of the one-off buildings such as the project office building in
Assam, have been prepared and approved. The designs for the mobile clinic boats have been
prepared and approved (Annex 8). A list of sub-centre buildings to be constructed in the firt
year of the project has been prepared and approved (Annex 7). Criteria have been prepared
and agreed upon in all states for selection of communities to receive newly-constrcted
buildings for their sub-centres under the project, and for selection of sites for the buildings in
each community (Annex 6). Lists of vehicles (Annex 9) and equipment to be provided under
the project have been drawn up and approved.



34
5.24      A facility survey has been completed in Assam and Karnataka to identify Family
Welfare facilities to be upgraded into first referral units and to specify the work needed to be
done. A facility survey of Family Welfare facilities has been completed in Assam and
Karnataka to identify renovations and rehabilitation needing to be done. A survey combining
both these topics is to commence shortly in Rajasthan.
5.25      Strategies for improving Family Welfare logistics in Assam and Rajasthan have
been drawn up and agreed upon (Annex 12). They have served as the basis for packages of
interventions to be undertaken under the project (Annex 12).
5.26      Service Delivery and Special Groups: Beneficiary Needs Assessments focusing
on health status and access to health and Family Welfare services among tribal groups have
been carried out in each state (Annex 16). Focus group interviews have also been carried out
among tribal groups to present the project and obtain their informed consent and participation
(Annex 16). A strategy for remedying disadvantages among these groups has been drawn up,
agreed upon and incorporated into project design in each state (Annex 17).
5.27      An in-depth, longitudinal survey of migratory groups in Rajasthan which covers
the annual migration cycle is underway; it combines features of a baseline survey and a
beneficiary needs assessment. A strategy for these groups also will be drawn up or the basis
of the survey's findings, which wil be financed under a lump sum set aside fol Nhis purpose
in the project budget. Community Volunteer schemes (Annex 10) have been designed and
agreed upon on the basis of a process of widespread consultation among Family Welfare
staff.
5.28      Training: A training needs assessment has been carried out in Assam and
Karnataka; Rajasthan had recently had one financed under a UNFPA project (Annex 16). A
training strategy for the Family Welfare program has been drawn up on the basis of their
results and incororated into project design (Annex 11).
5.29      IE: A communication needs assessment has been carried out in Assam and
Rajasthan; Karnataka did not do a full-scale one since it had the benefit of the experience of
a strong IEC component in the recently-closed IPP m (Annex 16). EEC stategies for the
Family Welfare program have been drawn up on the basis of their results and incorporated
into project design (Annex 13).
5.30      MS: A stitegy and plan for the development and strengthening of the MIS in
each state has been drawn up and agreed upon, and incorporated into project design (Annex
14).
5.31      Innovative Schemes: An indicative list of innovative schemes has been drawn up
and agreed upon (Annex 15).
5.32      Mogitoring and EvaluatioWn: Methodologies and outlines for progress reports,



35
MIS tracking and baseline, midterm and final evaluative studies and surveys have been drawn
up and agreed upon (Annexes 14, 24, 26).
5.33      Procurement: Procurement arrangements have been discussed and agreed upon
(Chapter V, section H). Standard Bidding Documents based on Bank models have been
agreed with all states, and technical specifications for aU packages of equipment for which
contracts will be put out to tender in the first year of the project are prepared.
5.34      Spervision: A supervision plan has been drawn up and agreed upon (Annex 25).
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.35      Progress in the project will be measured in terms of the agreed key project
indicators (Annex 3). Routine implementation of the project will be monitored through: (a)
MIS tracking (Annex 14); (b) six-monthly progres reports prepared by the state project
management units (Annex 25); (c) and the Midterm Review (Annexes 23, 25). During
negotiations, the States of Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka provided assurances that they
would utilise the key project indicators laid out in Annex 3, and related to national and State
Action Plan goals and objectives, for project monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation and impact (para. 7.3 (k)); and that they will submit six-monthly progress
reports to IDA in conformitv with the format and timetable laid out in Annex 24 (Ra=. 7.3
f.
5.36      Evaluation of the project's effectiveness and impact wil be carried out through a
series of studies and surveys (Annex 23). A population-based sample baseline survey will be
carried out in Rajasthan and Kamataka within the first six months of the project; it will
provide an independent measure of initial health and family planning status and access to
health and family planning services, including key indicators, and will aRow disaggregation
for tribal groups. In Assam, the results of the National Health and Family Welfare Survey
held in 1993 will substitute for the state-level baseline survey, but a conesponding survey for
the tribal population will be carried out within a year of project effectiveness.
5.37      In the final months of the project, a final evaluative survey, consisting of a
repeat of the baseline, will be carried out. In Assam, this will be done in two parts, a general
and a tribal survey, to match the original baselines. Trends in health and family planning
status and service access, including key indicators, will be analysed to provide some
assessment of the impact of the project. Trends in tribal areas, and in differentials between
tribal and non-tribal groups, will receive particular attention.
5.38      A similar survey will be carried out at the project midpoint also, as part of the
Midterm Review, if IDA and the states agree that it could usefully be done at that point.
This will depend largely on the pace of implementation and progress in the early years of the
project.



36
5.39      In addition to these population-based surveys, repeat; of the training,
communication and beneficiary needs assesments conducted as part of project preParation
will be carried out at the end of the project; and also at the project midpoint, as part of the
Midterm Review, if progress in project implementation is on track. These repeats will be
used to determine the effectiveness and impact of the project in improving taining and IEC
programs, as well as the coverage and quality of service delivery. Again, trends in tribal
areas will be a particular focus.
5.40      Finally, final evaluative studies of all new programs and approaches
pioneered under the project will be canied out towards the close of the project, in order to
determine their value and effectiveness. These would include any innovative programs
covered under the four main components of the project and any innovative schemes that have
survived their initial testing and evaluation period. Again, similar studies could also be done
at midpoint, by agreement between IDA and the states, if there has been sufficiently early
progress to render evaluations useful at that stage. During negotiations, the States of Assam,
Rajasthan and Karnataka provided assurances that they will each carry out a baseline survey,
a Mtidterm Review, and final and other evaluative studies and surveys according to the
protocols, methodologies and timetables laid out in Annex 23 (para. 7.3 (f)).
G. Disbursements
5.41      Disbursement profile. The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over seven
years, consistent with the standard profile for PHR projects in India. The project is expected
to be completed on June 30, 2001 and the credit closed on December 31, 2001. The
experience with other PHR projects reinforce the justification for a standard disbursement
profile. The table below shows forecasts of expenditures and disbursements (more details are
given in Annex 19).
Ftimated Disbursements
IIDA FY    FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FYOO  FYOI FY02
Annual     3.4   8.6  13.0  15.9  16.4  14.2  14.2   3.0
Cumulative   3.4  12.0  25.0  40.9  57.3  71.4  85.6  88.6
5.42      Disbursement percentages and required documentation. The IDA credit would
be disbursed against 90 percent of expenditures on civil worlcs; 95 percent of consultants,
grants and fellowships; 100 percent of CIF and 80 percent of other local expenditure on
furniture, equipment & health kdts and vehicles; 95 percent of training materials and books;
80 percent of training, publicity, services and materials for EEC; and an average of about 75
percent of incremental staff salries, honoraria to volunteer workers, incremental operating
and maintenance costs, including medicines and medical materials on a declining basis,
beginning with 90 percent in the first three years, declining to 80 percent for the fourth and
fifth year, and 60 percent for the remainder of the project. Disbursements for construction,
rehabilitation and repair would be made against Statements of Expenditure based on



37
certificafion of satisfactory completion of each stage of the work (foundation, walls, and
roof). The state government would maintain complete records, by site, of work
accomplished and funds disbursed, including certificates of completion signed by the block
engineer and countersigned by the District Engineer and District Project Officer.
Disbursements for procurement of goods and services under contracts of less than US$
200,000 and US$ 100,000 respectively, civil works contracts under US$ 500,000, civil
works maintenance, fellowships and grants, incremental salaries and operating costs would
also be made against Statements of Expenditure, with supporting documentation retained by
the state government for review by IDA during supervision missions. All other
disbursements would be made against fully documented withdrawal applications.
5.43      Seci  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of IDA's share
of expenditures pre-financed by the GOI and the state government, and to allow for direct
payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Specal Account would be opened
in the Reserve Bank of India in the amount of US$ 3.0 million equivalent to cover four
months of expected requirements for IDA financed items.
5.44      Retoctive financing. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$ 1.0 million is
recommended to cover eligible expenditures incurred in implementing appraised prject
activities after December 31, 1993. Retoactive financing would support initial staff
appointments, development of the project monitoring system, and other related start up costs.
All procurement would be made against eligible categories of expenditures in the project, and
would follow IDA procurement guidelines.
H. Procurement
5.45      Table 6 on the following page summarizes the project elements and their
esdmated costs and proposed methods of procurement. Project-related procurement for
goods and services would follow procedures acceptable to IDA. Project-financed consultants
would be selected according to Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, furniture, and health kdts would be buled
to the extent possible and any individual contract exceeding US$ 200,000 would be procured
using ICB. Purchases of off-the-shelf items (excepting vehicles) through rate contrats would
be acceptable in packages of less than US$ 100,000.
5.46      Civil Works: Civil works in the project consist mostly of Family Welfare
program PHCs, sub-centres, training centres, hostels, offices and staff quarters, valued in
total at US$ 36.2 million. These are dispersed in remote locations and will be coucted
during the seven year of the project. They are of small value, with contacts ranging in size
from US$ 10,000 to 1 million, hence they are unikely to attract foreign competition, and
will be procured following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Foreign
contractors would not be precluded from participating in the LCB bidding. Repairs,
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing buildings will in some cases be carred out by the
established force accounts units of Public Works Departments or by selected voluntary of



38
Table 6 - Prcrement Arrangements
(Tota Costs hi US$ MliMs)
Ci_98  C_iiM
S1di          BMW"        Oihts      N.B.F.        TOWta
CIL WORKS
avii wik                                      -           36.19       6.6D        -           42.78
(32.7      (5.94)                  (38.50)
GOODS
vdim                                        3.9             -         0.30        -           4.29
(3.19)                   (0.24)                   (3.43)
Mopeds&. Bkyds*r PF M Stf                                            5.48                     5.48
(4.39)                  (4.39)
2.71       0.98         -           3.69
(2.17)    (0.79)                     .95)
E@qpmm & HUalMh il                                        6.69        2.43                    9.12
(5.35)     (1.94)                   (7.29)
.-diabgMamthl&boah                                  .                 1.67        -           1.67
(1.57)                  (157)
Causommabls                                                           1.84        -            1.84
(1.35)                  (1.35)
iau&Muideu"lMIwt                                            -         3.04                    3.04
A)                      (122)
TBNCALASTJSANc$
P,n$ etPrsu timi & Wsmwamn                    -                      15.67        -           15.67
&qwthedmftatf           I fnm uS Aiem.                              (14.92)                  (14.92)
PtCPrades1a& u mmuasIai                       -                       1.30                     1.30
SqVn GPUbli@1ay UtviGSo                                              (1.04)                   (1.04)
.Md*dau Dewiqvop        (h i                                '        3.04                     3.04
MC&   Ia a)                                                          (2135)                   (213)
Suiu  of Adlio Staff                          -             -        4.56                     4.56
(3.37)                  (3.37)
lHaa           V_w Com.a ny V*m                             -         2.83        -           2.83
(209)                   (2.09
T.AJD.A. of .S tf                                                      -         0.27         0.27
clv Weds opgam & ma                                                   1.73        -            1.73
(1.24)                  (1.24)
EyIdp&FktOpwdM&M"t                            -             -        2.5          -           2.55
(1.87                   (1.87)
TOWal                                         3.99         45.58       54.00      0.27         103.84
(3.19)       (4.09      (45.31)                  (88.58)
Now  Figues inp     u  mdi  imediw mumd to DA(i lusive o f co dlnsacl



39
agencies (NGOs). In the case of some buildings (dispersed sub-centres small value) where
the estimated cost is US$ 10,000 and below, contracts may be let out on the basis of invited
quotations from three qualified contractors; but keeping within the overall ceiling for these
works of US$ 6.6 million. Materials required for works carried out under Force Account
will be procured under local shopping. Monitoring of works carried out under Force Account
will be done under procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.47      The execution of major worls will be overseen by staff of State Public Works
Departments deputed to work on this project. They will use bidding documents which closely
follow the Bank's Standard Bidding Document (small works model) and are satisfactry to
IDA. Type designs for new buildings, including detailed specifications, for PHCs, sub-
centres, staff quarters and offices have been made available to IDA for review and comment,
and will be approved prior to Board Presentation.
5.48      Goods. Euipment and Vehicles: Vehides for the p.roject consist of jeeps, cars,
mini-buses, mobile clinic vans and boats, costing US$ 4.3 million in total. Vehicles and
boats for immediate requirements, with each contract costing US$ 100,000 and below, up to
an aggregate ceiling of US$ 0.3 milion, will be procured using rate contracts (in the case of
vehicles) of the Diretort eral of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi, or local
si opping procedures (in the case of boats), comparing price quotations from at least three
suppliers to ensure competitive prices.
5.49      The rest of the vehicles, valued in aggregate at US$ 4.0 million, will be
procured during the first two years of the project, following Iternational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to IDA and using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Document (goods model). A domestic preference of 15 percent of the CIF bid price of such
goods, or prevailing customs duties (whichever is lower), would be applied for domestically
manufactured goods meeting eligibility requirements.
5.50      Mopeds, bicycles or motorcycles valued in aggregate at U3S$ 5.5 million for
Family Welfare staff, to be financed tlrough a project revolving loan fund, will be procured
directly by the end users throughout the seven year project period. There is good competition
among local suppliers and agents, and selection by the direct end users also allows for local
choice.
5.51      Equipment (office, labotory or medical, health kits) and Jfrnitue, valued in
aggregate at US$ 9.4 million, will be procured at different times over the seven year life of
the project by each of the three states. Since the quantities for each individual purchases
would be relatively small, they will be procured using LCB procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts valued at US$ 50,000 and below, up to
an aggregate of US$ 3.4 million, may be procured following local shopping procedures,
comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers to ensure competitive prices. All
DGS&D rate contracts will be acceptable for procurement under local shopping.



40
5.52      Teaching aids, books, medicines, and consumables will be procured in
contract valued at US$ 50,000 and below following shopping (international or local) or
direct contctng procedures acceptable to IDA as indicated below:
(b)  for contracts esdmate to cost more than US$ 25,000 but equivalent to or
less than US$ 50,000 up to an aggregate amount for the project of US$ 4.2
million may be procured using local shopping procedures, comparing price
quotaions from at least dhee suppliers to ensure competitive prices. AU
DGS&D rate contracts will be acceptable for procurement under local
shopping.
(a)  for conucts estimated to cost less than $25,000 up to an aggregate amount
for the project of US$ 2.3 million, using (i) local shopping procedures,
comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers to ensure
competifave prices or (ii) under direct contracts with suppliers thereof in
accordance with prcedures acceptable to IDA.
5.53      Puublcity Servies estimated to cost up to an aggregate value of US$ 1.3 million
for the proect shall be procured under direct conts with the Borrower's Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting, or with the relevant department or agency of the State
Governments.
5.54      IEC Servic  estimated to cost less than US$ 25,000 per contact up to an
agregate value of US$ 3.0 million for the project shall be procured under direct contracts
with local commercia suppliers of such services in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA.
5.55        .ulUM  Con: Consultants required under the project will be hired
following procedures prescribed in "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"; August, 1981".
5.56      Review of C:onbts During project supervsion, IDA-financed contracts for
works and goods valued at US$ 200,000 and above would be subject to prior review by IDA.
The review process will cover about 20 percent of the totl contracs proured under
ICB/LCB. This relatively low percentage is considered satisfctory since the state
governmebts have gained expiece in procurement in previous Bank prqects. Selective post
review of awarded contracts below the theshold levels would be carried out.
5.57      In respect of consultancies, the model documents used for inviting proposals,
terms of refen  for all consultancies, single-source contracts irrective of their value,
and all contacts valued at US$ 100,000 or more awarded to firms and US$ 50,000 or more
to be awardod to individuals will be subject to prior review.
5.58      Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:



41
(a)  prompt reporting of contt award information by the Borrower
(b)  comprehensive half-yearly reports to IDA by the Borrower, indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project
(ii)  revised timing of the pement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contact award and completion time for individual contracts
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement
(iv) a completion report by the bofrower within three months of the loan
closing date.
L Accouting and Auding:
5.59      The project would be subject to normal GO accounting and auditing procedures
which are considered acceptable to IDA. During negoions, G01 and the States of Assam,
Rajasan and Kamataka povided assurances that they will prepare and have audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, accounts and financial statements for the project for
each fiscal year, maintain statements of expenditure according to sound accounting practices,
retain them for at least one year after completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal was made, and include a separate opinion on them in the annual audit; and
furnish copies of these accounts to IDA as soon as possible, but not later than nine months
afer the end of each fiscal year (para 7.2).
VL BENEFllS AND RISK
A. Project Bendits
6.1       The project should: improve the quality of Family Welfare services in Assam,
Rajasan and Karnata  increase access to services in underserved areas and by poor and
disadvantaged population groups including tribal and migratory groups; increase demand for
serices both among the general population and among poor and disadvantaged groups; and
stenthe progam mnnagement. These benefits will be assessed by the key project
indicators and evaluaton mechanisms agreed upon with GOI and the States (pams. 4.7-4.10,
5.35-5.40, and Annexes 3 and 23-25).
6.2       Evidence to date indicates that improved progrm  effectiveness should lead to
increased service utlhsation, which in tun should result in better health for mothers and
chldren and accelated declines in fertliy and materna and childhood mortality. These



42
declines siould be mutualy reinforcing, since lower fertility would improve child health and
welae and decrease the risk of death in pregnancy and childbirth, while lower childheod
mortalitY would decrease the need for large numbers of births to assure survival of some to
adulthood. Eventually, fertility would fall low enough to bring about a reduction in the
natural itinuse of population in the three states and nationwide. State overall goals for the
year 2000 are a crude birth rate of 20 or 21, a contraceptive prevalence rate of 60 percent
and an infancy mortality rate of 50. Again these benefits will be assessed by indicators and
evaluation mechanismns agreed upon with GOI and the States (see preceding para.).
6.3       These benefits would be particularly important in Rajastian and Assun.
Rajasthan is one of the conservative northem states where progress in reducing fertlity and
mortality has been particularly slow, and which as a block are impeding further national
progress. A program bretough in Rajasthan would thus have regional and national
significance. Assam has suffered for many years from lack of development and investment in
the proga.-m, due to the continuing security problems in the state. The project should
therefote bring about particularly marked progress in Assam.
B. Piroject Risks
6.4       The prqect carries several risks which are itemised below. Most of them are
endemic in Family Welfre projects, but can be reduced if not eliminated through careful
prject design. Measures have been incorporated in the project to minimise these risks,
swveral of which are also laid out in Table 2.
6.5       Basic IwnkmtajoQ  P ertorm.anm : Current institutional capacity and program
effectiveness varies across the three states and across sectors, and basic implementation risls
vary accordingly. On the basis of past experience, however, including that in Karnataka
under the First and Third Population Projects, the risk of poor implementation is significant
everywhere. To minim   this risk, tight specifications and control measures have been built
into the project for past problem areas, such as design, management, supervision and
mintenance of civil works and mechanisms for strengthening and coordination of program
and project management.
6.6        Sustainabifliy: Likewise, the risk that the infrastuctu  and programs put in
place under the project will not be maintained and fully funded is substantial ev here,
and is exemplified in the First and Third Projects in Karnatak. This risk has been minimised
through project agreements on building and drug budget maintenance during the project
period and by building in project-program coordination and management strengthening
measures.
6.7      Innovative .roaches Many of the approaches and programs to be put in place
by the project are new, innovative and untested in the Family Welfare program, particularly
toe  relating to outreach and community linkage schemes, mobile clinics, and transport and
logistics. To minimise tis risk, the project design calls for pilots, evaluations and gradual



43
phaing in of new pogms and approaches.
6.8       S.In in Assam I Assam, there are also lingering minor security related
concerns. Control of this risk is beyond the scope of the project, but security conce,
which have been easing, have not interfered with project preparation. In the judgement of
GOI and the state, they are ulikely to jeopadise investment in the Family Welfare pogram
significantly. in the longer term or in any but a few smal areas of the state.
VII. ARAEI&1ACHED
7.1       During negotiations, 001 provided an assurance that it would:
(a)  carry out with IDA in December of each year a review of the actual
vpenditures incutred under the project during ta fiscal year, and by
March 31 of each year a review of the resources required for the pruect
for the following fiscal year, in order to determdne that there will be ful
provision for that year's planned project activities (para 5.7); and
Ib) imploment the Action Plan for Revamping the Family Welfare Pogram
(Ian. 4.7.
7.2       During negotiations, (OI and the Staes of Assam, Rajasthan and Kanataka
provided assurances that they would: prepar and have audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, accounts and fincial sWements for the project for each fiscal year,
maintin statements of expenditure according to sound accounting practices, retain them for
at least one year after completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdawal
was made, and include a separate opinion on them in the annual audit; and fumish copies of
these accounts to IDA as soon as possible, but not ater than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year (pa. 5.58).
7.3       During negodations, the StWes of Assam, Rajasthan and Kama also provided
assurances that they would:
(a) establish the full project management structure, including all Committees
and technical units by October 30, 1994 (para. 5.22).
(b) engage all other key additional personnel to be recruited under the prqect
by December 31, 1994 (para.5.22).
(c)  ensre that the Empowered Project Committees hold regular meedngs at a
frequency adequate for effective project direction and supervision, but in
any case at least twice a year (par. 5.11).



(d)  prpare and subnit to IDA for approval by January 31 of each year,
annual civil works, taining, IEC, MIS and service delivery plans for the
followig fiscal year substantially in accordance with content and
timetables embodied in Annex 26 (par. 5.22).
(e)  subnit six-monthly progress reports to MDA in confornity with the fornat
and timetable laid out in Annex 24 (pam. 5.35).
(f) carry out, in each state, a baseline survey, a Midterm Review, and final
evaluative stde and surveys accoring to the protocols, methodologies
and timetables laid out in Annex 23 (para. 5.40).
(g) adhere to the selection criteria for location and siting of sub-centre
buildings laid out in Annex 6 in the construction of all sub-centres during
the project period under either project or non-project funding (pam. 4.15).
(h)  ensure that adequate resources are provided on a timely bais, through a
series of measures agreed with the Association, for the maintenance of
Family WeLfare facilities and will ensure that the fcilities are adequately
maintained (para. 4.16).
(i)  ensure that adequate supplies of drugs and other medical material are
made avaiable to sub-entres, PHCs and FRUs on a timely basis, by, inter
alia (a) establishing an essential drugs list for Family Welfare program
drug purchases by December 31, 1994; (b) from January 1, 1995 onwards,
purhasing all drugs for the Family Welfare program, under either project
or non-project funding, solely from among items on the essential drugs
list; and (c) mobilising incremental resources for drugs and other medical
supplies for Family Welre facilities (par. 4.27).
(j) implement the State Action Plans (pam. 4.7).
(k) utilise the key project indicators laid out in Annex 3, and related to
national and state Action Plan goals and objectives, for project monitoring
and evaluation of project implementation and impact (pam. 5.35).
(1) implement fully their tribal strategies as laki out in Annex 17 (para. 4.40).
(m) select NGOs for participation in the project in accordance with cntena and
procedures agreed with the Association (pax. 4.30).
(n) obtain approval from the Association for selection of innovative schemes to
be carried oiut under the project (m  4.36).



45
7.4       The State of Kamataka also provided an assurance during negotiations that it
would:
(a) begin by July 1, 1995 implementation of a program, to be fimded out of
state non-project funds, of adequate rehailitation of Family Welfare
facilities constructed prior to the project, which will be camed out
according to a timetable agreed with the Association (pam. 4.7); and
(b) furnish to the Association evidence of satisfactory implementation of the
rhabilitation program (pam 4.17).
7.5       Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project constutes a
suitable basis for an l)A Credit of US$ 88.6 million to India at standard IDA tems with 3S
years martuity.



46                                    Annel
Latest Demographic Data and Family Welfare Kev Indicators
For All India and MaJor States (pog. 10 million or more)
Table A:1:1: Sununary Demographic Indicators for All India and Major States
State              Population   Pop as'   CBR   CDR   RNI  IMR   TFR              Age at2
(millions)    % of   (0/00)  (0/00)  (%)   (per    %          Effective
Total                         Woman)            Marriage
for Girls,
(Years)
1991        1991     1992   1992   1992  1991   1991    1991
Major States
Andhra Pradesh         66.5          8      24        9      1.5    71      3.0   18
Assam                  22.4          3      31       10      2.0    76      3.5   21
Bihar                  86.4         10      32       11      2.1     72     4.4    19
Gujarat                41.3          5      28        9      1.9    67      3.1   20
Haryana                16.5          2      32        9      2.3    75      4.0   19
Karnataka              45.0          5      26        9      1.8    73      3.1    19
Kerala                 29.1          3      18        6      1.1    17      1.8   22
Madhya Pradesh         66.2          8      34       13      2.2   104      4.6   19
Maharashtra            78.9          9      25        8      1.7    59      3.0   19
Orissa                 31.7          4      28       12      1.6   114      3.3   20
Punjab                 20.3          2      27        8      1.9    56      3.1   20
Rajasthan              44.0          5      35       10      2.4    89      4.6   18
Tamil Nadu             55.9          7      21        8      1.2    58      2.2   20
Uttar Pradesh         139.1         16      36       13      2.3    98      5.1   19
West Bengal            68.1          8      25        8      1.6    64      3.2   19
INDIA                 8C3          100      29       10       79 79                19
Figures may not add exactly to totals, due to rounding
'Note that major states make up about 95 percent of the total of population of India: thus percentages wIll not add to 100
2Age at Effective Marriage means mean age at consummation of marriage
Sources:
Population Totals: 1991 census data.
Crude Birth Rates. Crude Death Rates. Rates of Natural Increase. Total Fertilitv Rates. Infant Mortality Rates. Aneat
Effective Marria&e: Provisional data from the sample Registration System



47                                                   AnL I
Table A: 1:2: Key Family Welfare Indicators for All India and Major States
State                                    CPR                       Imm. Ratese             Attended Deliveries
1+    Measles
1993                  1992             1992               1990
Major States
Andhra Pradesh                             45                                                         52
Assam                                      25                                                         27
Bihar                                       24                                                        25
Gujarat                                     55                                                        56
Haryana                                     53              88-100            76-93                   82
Karnataka                                  52                                                         62
Kerala                                      37                                                        96
Madhya Pradesh                              53                77-83           30-54                   25
Maharashtra                                 38                96-98           71-76                   48
Orissa                                      71                81-82           42-54                   25
Punjab                                      29                                                        90
Rajasthan                                   54                                                        22
Tamil Nadu                                  54             100-100            93-93                   73
Uttar Pradesh                              33                                                         29
West Bengal                                 34                                                        38
INDA                                       43                                                         4
tInm. Rate    brniu aiton coveage aes
1 +          Percent of Chdr  Under Two Years having rceived at least one dose of any vaccine
Measles = Percent of Children Under Two Years having received measles vaccination (which i6 one of dte last to be given)
Note: The coverage survey covered only 2 randoly-selected districts in Haryana. Madhya Pradesh and Otissa, I district plus Boayty dq in
Mahaashim and I district plus Madras city in Tamil Nadu. Figures given are the 2 district/city averages obtained in each sate.
Atended Deliveries - Percent of Deliveries attended by Trained Medical or Pamedical Pasonnel (i.e. doctors. turses, ANMs LHVs, staimd
TBAs)
Sources:
2Attended Deliveries: provbional data from the Samiplc Registration System.
Contraceotive Prvalen  R     data compiled by MOHFW from State reponl.
h_munisation Rate: covrage asrvey of Auigst/September 1992 by MOHFW and national and international expehb in h sats of Haryana,
Orissa, Mahazrshtra, Tanil Nadu, MPadhya Nads



48                                                naexl1
TABLES PROVIDED) BY M011FW
The tables presented in this Anmex have bem  supplied by the MInistry of Health anW Faily  elfare and are
rqxrdiced as received. They are presented for information, and their inclusion here doe not leply that the
World Sank has critically revieved or accepted the data and estimates contained in thaeL
1BLE- 1
POPULATIO  6ROUTH. CRUDE BIRTH S DEATH RATES AND SEX RATIO - INDIA
1901-1991
Year  Population    Percentage   Average    Crude   Crude    Sex Ratio
(in million)  Decadal       annual     Birth   Death    (Mates per
variation   exponentiaL Rate    Rate         1000
growth rate                    Females)
(percent)
1901    238.4         -                                             1029
1911    252.1         5.75          0.56       49.2      42.6       1037
1921    251.3        -0.31         -0.03        8.1      47.2       1047
1931    279.0        11.00          1.04       46.4      36.3       1053
1941    318.7        14.22          1.33       45.2      31.2       1058
1951    361.1        13.31          1.25       39.9      27.4       1057
1961    439.2        21.51           1.95      41.7      22.8       1063
1971    548.2        24.80          2.20       41.2      19.0       1075
1981    683.3        24.66          2.22       37.2      15.0       1071
1991    846.3        23.56          2.14        NA        NA        1079
Source   Registrar General of India, Census figures.
Sex Ratio
1070 -.--------.-------------------------I-----------------
1070~~~~~~~~~- - -- - - - -                                         . .. ......... ..................... . ..... .
1060.------------...
1060   -------------                            . ............. ........................................  ...
1030             ......... ......... ... ........................ ............. ... ......... ... ... .....
1010  -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -   --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------
100.
1901      1911       1921       1931      1941       1951      1961       1971      1981       1991
Year



49                                            Annex 1
TMBLE 2
MUE BIRTH AND WEATH RATES M    RURAL AND  RBA AREAS, 1980-92
Crude Birth Rate         Crude Death Rate
Year      Rural  Urban Combined   Rural Urban   Combined
19a0-8    35.4   27.6  33.8       13.6   7.7        12.3
1981-83   35.4   27.8  33.8       13.3   7.7        12.1
1982-84   35.3   28.6  33.8       13.3   8.0        12.1
1983-85   35.0  28.6  33.6        13.3   8.1        12.1
1984-86   34.6   28.2  33.2       13.0   8.0        11.8
1985-87   34.1   27.5   32.6      12.4   7.6        11.3
1986-88   33.6   26.9  32.1       12.0   7.6        11.0
198?-89   33.0   26.3   31.5      11.7   7.4        10.7
1988-90   32.3   25.4  30.8       11.2   7.2        10.3
1989.91   31.6   24.7  30.1       10.7   7.1         9.9
1992    30.7   23.1   29.0      10.8   7.0        10.0
Source : Registrar General, India,; Sampte Registration
System (SRS) 1971-92
CBRJCDR & RNI
SO.O 0:i -- ...................................  .-.--........................... ..................
45.0.                                  ........................................
40.0.--------
35.0..--                                                                                       CBR .............................  C
30.0  -. --------                                 ..... ........ ... .. . ..... ... ..*CBR
30.0 .. . .........
i25.0 .                                                                           ... .....   .  -El1----- CD R
20.0.                                               ........................ 
25.0 .-. . .. . .-.........-.-------------     URNI
10.0       .,-.-.-''-- .-.------------
S.O  . .... -------- ..           ....... ..........................    .. ..
0.0 . ; . , i
1911      1921      1931      1941      1951      1961      1971      1981
Year
Page 1



50                                             Apnn I
TAILE 3
IIIFUT ORTALIUT    TES, 1971-92
Infant Mortality Rate
Year       Rural       Urban      Combined
1971        138         82         129
1972        150         85         139
1973        143         89         134
1974        136         74         126
1975        151         84         140
1976        139         80         129
1977        140         81         130
1978        137         74         127
1979        130         72         120
1980        124         65         114
1981        119         62         110
1982        114         65         105
1983        114         66         105
1984        113         66         104
1985        107         59          97
1986        105         62          9
1987        104         61          95
1988        102         62          94
1989         98         58          91
1990         86         so          80
1991         87         53          80
1992         85         53      1  79
Source   Registrar Genral, India, SRS 1971-92
Infmt Motaity Rates
140.
120-
too    I---------.....------------------ " '''''''' -----------------
60  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
40  .....--.....................------------......................................................................
20.
60.
71       73        75       77       79        81       83       85        87       89       91
year



51                                                Annxl
TABLE 4
EXPECTATION OF LIFE AT SIRTH 1901-1988
Expectation of tife
at birth
Year         xales    Females
1901-10        22.6        23.3
1911-20        19.4        20.9
1921-30        26.9        26.6
1931-40        32.1        31.4
1941-50        32.4        31.7
1951-60        41.9        40.6
1961-70        46.4        44.7
1970-75        50.5        49.0
1976-80        52.5        52.1
1981-85        55.4        55.7
1986-88        57.0        57.4
Scuree: Registrar Geeralt  India; Census estimates until 1970 and for period 1970-75, 1976-80
accessionaL Papers SRS 1989; 1981-88 Finat
Poputation Totals 1991 - Paper-2 of 1992
Life Expec
60 ---------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- -------------
SO -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - ---- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -                   ............. ........... ....
40   -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -                 .................... I
_   r                         *~~~~~~~~ Males
30 ~ ----------                                ..................                            ...
20                . ............................................................................
0.
1901              1921              1941               1961              1975              1986
Year



52                                            Annex t
TABLE 5
PERCENTAGE DISTRIWI ION OF POPULATION BY AGE AlD SEX,
INDIA. 1951-90
Period       0-14      |      15-49                 50+
Male  Female   Male    Female         Mate   Female
1951    38.2    38.6      49.7   49.1         12.1   12.2
1961    40.9    41.1      47.2    47.1        11.8   11.7
1971    41.7    42.2      45.8   46.0         12.3   11.8
1981    39.6    39.8      47.7    47.7        12.7   12.5
1990    37.1    36.6      50.4    50.3        12.5   13.1
Source   Registrar General, India, Census Publications,
SRS, 1990
Mean Age at Effective Mariage
Aum~~~~~~~g
WR#       _ Bii1i                    _       1|  §l              g1    
_           |_       1  E||   3 
U __ 1I !   s!hI-    
Tmd         -        -Na    &|| l    
Pdn     b_:|i i -                      _              
Ub'_=    iili   
. _l l s _ P SS 4  Ib
164    1    17                        19        20         21         22          23|
M-_  __l 1|1| | |  | t  3Age



53                                             Ann I
TABLE 6
NEAM AGE AT EFFECTIVE MARRIALE, INDIA AND
mAJOR STATES, 1991
India/Major       Combined       Rural        Urban
States
India                19.5          19.2        20.6
Andhre Pradesh       18.2          17.9        19.2
Assam                20.5          20.3        22.0
Bihar                18.8          18.6        19.6
Gujarat              20.2          20.1        20.7
Haryana              19.2          18.9        20.3
Karnataka            19.4          19.1        20.3
Kerata               22.0          22.0        22.2
Nadhya Pradesh       18.6          18.3        20.2
Maharastra           18.9          18.4        20.4
Orissa               19.8          19.7        20.7
Punjab               20.4          20.3        20.8
Rajasthan            17.9          17.8        18.7
Tamit Nadu           20.3          20.1        20.7
Uttar Pradesh        19.1          18.8        20.7
West Bengal          19.3          18.9        21.1
Source : Registrar General, India; SRS 1991
TABLE 7
AGE SPECIFIC FERTILITY RATES AND AlE SPECIFIC MARITAL FERTILITY
RATES FOR INDIA 11984 & 1991
(PER 1000 MOM)
Rural                         Urban
Age Croup                                                I
1984          1991            1984           1991
ASFR   ASMFR   ASFR   ASMFR    ASFR  ASMFR   ASFR  ASMFR
15-19       93    225     85      238      58    289     46    284
20-24      267    318    245      309     195    323    201    316
25-29      246    263    202      220     187    228    159    183
30-34      175    185    129      137     118    124     82     88
35-39      107    115      76      82      60     65     37      41
40-44       53     60     35       40      25     R6     15      17
45-49       25     30      14      17       9     11      5       6
Source    Registrar General, India,  SRS Publications for respective years.



54                                               ARM l
ASFR (Utban)
150-1       202      252      303      3-3      404      4-4
so-
0
15-19    20-24   25-29    30-34    35-39    40-44   45-49
Age Group of Women
ASFR(Rr)
300-
250- ,1i                                                     4
too
15-19   20-24    25-29    30-34    35-39   4044   45S49
Age Group of Womnen



55                                           AnnexI
TAKLE 8
ToTAL FEWTILIII ATES, INDIA, 1971-91
Totat Fertitity  Rate
Vwr        Ruwal     Urban      Combined
199Z       5.4        4.3        5.2
1s9         5.2       3.?        4.9
1974       5.2        3.7         4.9
1975       5.2        3.7        4.9
1976       5.0        3.6         4.7
1977       4.8         3.4       4.5
197        4.8         3.4       4.5
1979       4.?        3.4        4.4
1960       4.7         3.4       4.4
1961       4.8         3.3       4.5
1962       4.9         3.4       4.5
19J3       4.9        3.4        4.5
19S4       4.8         3.5       4.5
1985       4.6        3.3        4.3
1986       4.5        3.1        4.2
1987       4.4        3.2        4.1
1988       4.3        3.1        4.0
19J9       4.2        2.8        3.9
1990       4.1        2.8        3.8
1991       3.9        2.7        3.6
Sume : Registrw Gnrrl, India; SRS
CPR vs. TR
50. .                                                         ........................
30.0 ;:---------------------------------------.....................
40.0 .................
20.0 ...    ,CPR.j 
C  _                                      *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~TFR (xlO)
10.0.
72      74      76      78      80       82      84      86      88      90
Yeaw



56                                               Amex I
TP1E 9
IT66N E SISTEIWTIWI OF LIVE StIRTTS BY ORDER OF BIRTH
11N, 1972-19"
Ofder of Live           1972                  1984              1991
BI rth
Rurat      Urban       Rurat    Urban   Rurat    Urban
1         19.9        21.6        26.2      29.4      30.6    34.6
2          17.4       18.2        21.5      24.0      25.4    27.9
3          1S.7        16.2       17.7      17.9      18.8    17.3
4          13.6        14.4       12.9      11.4      25.2    20.2
5+          .2        29.5        21.6      17.2
Total   10.0        100.0       100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Soure : Registrar Gerat, India; Special Survey Report for 1972 and
1984; SRS 1990
% Distribuio  of Birfts by Order (MRAN)
4S                   ...... .............................. ..........      I  
43* .. ............ ¢                                              3   2
40                   . .... ... ....... ...............
30 - - 4       +       -l.-
2S3.
20  g  :     :     ---~~~---------------- -------------------------  -
t 15;...........................................................................
0.
1972                                    1984                                   1991
Year



57                                                        Annex I
er    Rural Dlstributlon of Births !zJ O,rder
1972                     19.9          1.4            15.7             4
1984                    20.2J          21.5           17.7           34.5
19911-                  30.6           25.4           18.8           25.2
%  Distribution of Births by Orde  (RUR.A L
45     ------ -------- ----  -  - - - --  - - -  - -- - -  - - --  - - - -
40 ~~~-                                                                    1  .. .... ..O4
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
45  -                   ............... ....... .............
30.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
40  -   - - - - - -  --................. i  ::_
5..2 ..
30 15     I---- -------------------------------
10      ...   .....---....................... ..........................................
-  0 5  ------------------------------------I---------------------------------I---------
1972                                          1984                                           1991
Year



58                                            Annex I
TA*E 10
D0STIBWTrlG OF MIu NAVORS 11 ISIA By
IUSTRIAL CATEA, 1991
Industrial        No of workers             Percent of
Category            (in mitlion)             Workers
Total    Hale Femalo  Totat  Male  Femate
I              107.1    85.6  21.5  38.41  39.63   34.22
II              73.7    45.5  28.3  26.44  21.05   44.93
III               5.3     4.3   1.0    1.90   1.99    1.60
IV               1.7     1.5   0.2    0.62   0.70    0.34
V(G)             6.7     4.5   2.2    2.42   2.09    3.53
V(b)            21.6    19.2   2.4    7.76   8.89    3.88
VI               5.4     5.0   0.4    1.95   2.32    0.66
Vlt             20.8    19.4   1.4    7.46   8.98    2.26
VlIl             7.8     7.6   0.2    2.81   3.54    0.32
Ix              28.5    23.3   5.2   10.23  10.80    8.26
ALL            278.9   216.0  62.9  100.00 100.00  100.00
Iniintrial Catumories
I cutivators
It Agrialuttrat laboers
III  Livestock, forestry, fishing,hunting,and
ptantations.orchards and attied activities
IV   Nining an quwrying
V(a) NXPawcturin., prcessing. servicin  and repairs in
hbsehold indatry
Vib)  Nmfaacturing, processing, servicing and repairs in other
tham hausthold istry
VI Co uctions
VII Trade ad c mrc
VIII  Trrauprt, storage  aid caomicatiors
IX  Others srvices
Sorwc: Registrar 6neral, lIndfa, Final Poputation fotats
Series 1; Paper - 2 of 1992
TAIE 11
TM  OF URSAUISATION l  I*IA. 1901-91
Cemma Muwer of    Urban          Urban        Decennial   Annual
Year   Urban Agg-   population  Population   growth      Exponential
lomeration   million     as X of       rate of    growth rate
Towns                    Total         urban          (M)
population Poputation
(%)
1901    1 827        25.9        10.84
1911    1 815        25.9        10.21'       0.4          0.03
1921    1 949        28.1        11.18        8.3          0.79
1931    2 072        33.5        11.99       19.1          1.75
1941    2 250        44.2        13.86       32.0          2.77
1951    2 843        62.4        17.29       41.4          3.47
1961    2 365        78.9        17.97       26.4          2.34
1971    2 590       109.1        19.91       38.2          3.21
1981    3 378       159.5        23.34       46.1          3.83
1991    3 768       217.6        25.72       36.5          3.09
Source : Registrar General, India; Final Popualtion Totals, Series- I
Paper-I of 1992 Vol. It



59                                             Annex 1
TABLE 12
PERCENT DISTRIWTION OF INTERNAL NIGRANTS OF EACH SEX IN
DIFFERENT MIGRATION STREAMS EASED ON PLACE OF BIRTH AND
PLACE OF ENUMERATION.INDIA. 1961-81
Migration Stream
Year  Sex      Rural-      Rural-    Urban-      Urban Total
to-        to-        to-        to-
Rural      Urban     Urban       Rural
1961  Total    73.7        14.6      8.1         3.6   100
Mate     56.7        25.7     13.0        4.6   100
Female   81.3        9.7       5.8        3.2   100
1971  Total    70.3        15.3      8.9         5.5   100
Male     53.5        26.0     14.0        6.5   100
Female   77.8        10.5      6.7        5.0   100
1981  Total    65.2        17.6     11.2         6.0   100
Male     45.6        30.0     17.4        7.0   100
Female   73.3       12.5       8.7        5.5   100
Source : Premi, M.K., t981 2; Census of India 1981, 1984
TABLE 13
FAMILY PLUNING ACCEPTORS BY METHODS, INDIA, 1971-93
(in thousands)
Year       Steril-   IUD      Eq. CC    Eq. OP       Totat      Eq.
zations insert-   users       users                Steril-
ions                                      zations
1970-71     1330     476       1963                   3769      1598
1971-72     2187     488       2354                   5029      2481
1972-73     3122     355       2398                   5875      3373
1973-74      942     372       3010                   4324      1233
1974-75     1354     433       2521                   4308      1638
1975-76     2669     607       3495        32         6804      3068
1976-77     8261     581       3634        58        12534      8663
1977-78      949     326       3175        78         4528      1242
1978-79     1484     552       3387        82         5505      1865
1979-80     1778     635       2987        82         5482      2165
1980-81     2053     628       3718        91         6490      2479
1981-82     2792     751       4439       120         8102      3302
1982-83     3983    1097       5765       183        11028      4689
1983-84     4532    2134       7661       729        15056      5750
1984-85     4085    2562       8505      1290        16442      5555
1985-86     4902    3274       9387      1358        18920      6665
1986-87     5043    3935       9825      1829        20632      7104
1987-88     4940    4356      11342      2064        22702      7251
1988-89     4678    4851      12422      2416        24368      7254
1989-90     4188    4942      14159      279S        26082      6932
1990-91     4126    5370      14735      3125        27356      7082
1991-92     4090    4385      13873      3276        25624      6686
1992-93     4242    4683      14910      3020        26855      6967
Eq. CC Users   Equivalent Conventional Contraceptive Users
Eq. OP Users   Equivalent Oral Pills Users
Source : Goverrument of India, Family Welfare Programme in India, Year
Book 1990-91; Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. Also
Quarterly Bulletin on Family Welfare Statistics 1992-93



60                                                 Annex 1
TABLE 14
COUPtE PROTECTIGI RATES, INDIA, 1971-93
(percent)
Couple Protection Rate by Methods
Year      Steriliz-        IUD        Others      Total
ation
1971         8.0           1.4     j   1.0        10.4
1972         9.7           1.3         1.2        12.2
1973        12.2           1.1         1.2        14.5
1974        12.2           1.0         1.5        14.?
1975        12.6           1.0         1.2        14.7
1976        14.2           1.0         1.?        17.0
1977        20.7           1.1         1.7        23.5
1978        20.1           0.9         1.5        22.5
1979        19.9           0.9         1.6        22.4
1980        19.9           1.0         1.4        22.3
1981        20.1           1.0         1.7        22.8
1982        20.7           1.1         2.0        23.7
1983        22.0           1.4         2.5        25.9
1984        23.7           2.2         3.7        29.5
1985        24.9           2.9         4.4        32.1
1986        26.5           3.7         4.7        34.9
1987        27.9           4.5         5.1        37.5
1988        29.0           5.2         5.7        39.9
1989        29.8           5.9         6.2        41.9
1990        30.1           6.3         6.9        43.3
1991        30.3           6.7         7.2        44.A
1992        30.3           6.3         6.9        43.5
1993       30.2           6.3         6.9        43.4
Source   Government of India, Family Welfare Programme in India, Year
Book 1990-91; Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. Also
Quarterly Bulletin on Family Welfare Statistics 1992-93
~~ ~Sterilization                 CPR By Methods
45.0  --                                     ----
40.0    -                 Other            --------------------------------------------------------
35.0   O   -              Total             ----------------------------                 ----------- ---------
30.0   .                                   ----------------
25.0  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -          ---     --------   --    -------------------. ..
20.0  -- - - - - - - - - - - -                                   -----------------------------------------------.  
1 5.0  -                        --- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- --
5.0      - -------------  .............-------.------- --- ---- --------------------
0.00                                                                        1 14**E= I     1 1-      1 1 1     
71       73        75       77        79       81        83       85        87        89       91        93
Year



61                                            Anx
TAKLE Is
FIVE tEM PLANS : TOTAL CUTLAY AND FANILY WELFARE
OUTLAt (IN NILLION RUPEES)
Plan              Total     Outlay for  (3) as X
Period            Outtay    FW Prog.      of (2)
(1)               (2)        (3)         (4)
First (1951-56)           19 600          1        N
Second (19f6-61)          46 720         50       0.1
Third (1961-66)           85 765        249       0.3
Annual Plan (1966-69)     66 254        704       1.1
Fourth (1969-74)         157 788      2 780       1.8
Fifth (1974-79)          394 262      4 918       1.2
Amusat Plan (1979-80)    121 765      1 185       1.0
Sixth (1980-85)        1 092 917    13 870        1.3
Seventh (1985-90)      2 187 296    31 208        1.4
Aiual Plan (1990-91)    583 694       7 849       1.3
Annual Plan (1991-92)    647 512      7 490       1.2
Eighth (1992-97)      41 341 000    65 000        1.4
Source : Ministry of Health & Family weLfare, Govt. of India
TABKE 16
P-OJECTW PFOULATICE AND LAUo    FORCE 1996-2006
Year       Population     Growth Rate   _ Labour |Growth
(in millions)   (per cent)       Force   Rate(X)
1996          924             1.8           420
2001         1003             1.6           471      2.29
2006         1082             1.5           522      2.06
Source: Planning Commfssion, 1989



62                                           Annex 1
TABLE 17(1)
POPULATIOU STATISTICS FOR INDIA.STATES AMD UNION TERRITORIES
India/States or       Population  Annual
Union Territories     (in Q000)   Exponential
1991      Growth
RateCX)
(1981-91)
INDIA                846 303        2.14
STATES
ANDHRA PRADESH         66 508       2.17
ARUNACHAL PRADESH         865       3.14
ASSAM                  22 414       2.17
SIHAR                  86 374       2.11
GOA                     1170        1.49
GUJARAT                41 310       1.92
HARYANA                16 464       2.42
HINACHAL PRADESH        5 171       1.89
JAMUW & KASHMIR         7 719       2.54
KARNATAKA              44 977       1.92
KERALA                 29 098       1.34
MADHYA PRADESH         66 181       2.38
MAHARASTRA             78 937       2.29
NANIPUR                 1 837       2.57
MEGHALATA               1 775       2.84
NIZORAM                   690       3.34
NAGALAND                1 209       4.45
ORISSA                 31 660       1.83
PUNJAB                 20 282       1.89
RAJASTHAN              44 006       2.50
SIKKIN                    406       2.51
TAMIL NADU             55 859       1.43
TRIPURA                 2 757       2.95
UTTAR PRADESH         139 112       2.27
WEST BENGAL            68 078       2.21
WIoC TERRITORIES
A & N ISLANDS             281       3.97
CHANDIGARH                642       3.52
D & N. HAVELI             138       2.89
DAMAN & DIU               102       2.52
DELHI                   9 421       4.15
LAKSHDWEEP                 52       2.51
PONDICHERRY               808       2.90
Source : Registrar General, India; Census 1991



63                                          Ann  1
TABLE 17(Ui)
India/States or            Literacy Rate       Work Participatfon Rate
Union Territories                               (total workers as per.
cent oftotal population
Person  Male  Female  Person  Male Female
INDIA                    52.2  64.1  39.3       37.5  51.6  22.3
ANDHRA PRADESH           44.1  55.1  32.7       45.1  55.5  34.3
ARUNACHAL PRADESH        41.6  51.5  29.7       46.2  53.8  37.5
ASSA                     52.9  61.9  43.0       36.1  49.5  21.2
BIHAR                    38.5  52.5  22.9       32.2  47.9  14.9
GOA                      75.5  83.6  67.1       35.3  49.6  21.0
GUJARAT                  61.3  73.1  48.6       40.2  53.6  26.0
HARYANA                  55.9  69.1  40.5       31.0  48.5  10.8
HINACHAL PRADESH         63.9  75.4  52.1       42.8  50.6  34.8
J.1*MU & KASHMIR         N.A.  N.A.  N.A.       N.A.  N.A.  N.A.
KARNATAKA                56.0  67.3  44.3       42.0  54.1  29.4
KERALA                   89.8  93.6  86.2       31.4  47.6  15.9
MADNrA PRADESH           44.2  58.4  28.9       42.8  52.3  32.7
NAHARASTRA               64.9  76.6  52.3       43.0  52.2  33.1
ANIPUR                   59.9  71.6  47.6       42.2  45.3  39.0
MEGHALAYA                49.1  53.1  44.9       42.7  50.1  34.9
NIZORAN                  82.3  85.6  78.6       48.9  53.9  43.5
NAGALAND                 61.7  67.6  54.8       42.7  46.9  38.0
ORRiSSA                  49.1  63.1  34.7       37.5  53.8  20.8
PUNJAB                   58.5  65.7  50.4       30.9  54.2   4.4
RAJASTHAN                38.6  55.0  20.4       38.9  49.3  27.4
SIKKIN                   56.9  65.7  46.7       41.5  51.3  30.4
TAMIL NADU               62.7  73.8  51.3       43.3  56.4  29.9
TRIPURA                  60.4  70.6  49.7       31.1  47.6  13.8
UTTAR PRADESH            41.1  55.7  25.3       32.2  49.7  12.3
WEST BENGAL              57.7  67.8  46.6       32.2  51.4  11.3
UNIN TERITORIES
A & N ISLANDS            73.0  79.0  65.5       35.2  53.3  13.1
CHANDIGARH               77.8  82.0  72.3       34.9  54.3  10.4
DADRA & NAGAR HAVELI     40.7  53.6  27.0       53.3  57.5  48.8
OAMAN & DIU              71.2  82.7  59.4       37.6  51.6  23.2
DELHI                    75.3  82.0  67.0       31.6  51.7   7.4
LAKSHADIEEP              81.8  90.2  72.9       26.4  44.2   7.6
PONDICHERRY              74.7  83.7  65.6       33.1  50.6  15.2
Source : Registrar General, India; Census 1991



64                                            hiDI
Table 17(iif)
Life Expectancy
St.   India/ States/                       at birth (1991-96)   CPR
No.  Union TerritorIes    C.8.R.  C.D.R.                         (X)
1992    1992    male    Female    1993
INDIA                 29.0    10.0      60.6     61.7    43.4
1.  Andhra Pradesh         24.1      9.1     61.4     64.5     45.3
2.  Arunachal Pradesh      26.3      9.3       NA       NA      11.7
3.  Assam                  30.6    10.3      58.7     58.5      25.2
4.  Bihar                  32.2    10.9      60.8     60.1      24.0
5.  Goa                     14.5     7.3       NA       NA     33.7
6.  Gujarat                 27.9     9.1     60.9     62.7      54.5
7.  Haryana                31.9      8.6     65.2     64.2     52.7
8.  Himachal Pradesh        27.9     8.8       NA       NA      55.2
9.  Jsmu & Kashmr             NA      NA       NA       NA      19.3
10. Karmataka              26.2      8.5     64.2     65.3     48.1
11. Kerala                 17.5      6.3     68.6     75.0     52.3
12. Nedhys Pradesh         34.4    12.7      59.2     58.0     37.4
13. Naharashtra            25.1      7.9     64.0     65.9     53.2
14. Nanipur                19.4      5.5       NA       NA     23.0
15. Neghataya              29.8      8.5       NA       NA      4.4
16. Mizoram                  NA       NA       NA       NA     43.5
17. Nagaland               19.2      3.6       NA       NA      6.4
18. Orissa                 27.8    11.7      60.1     58.4     38.1
19. Punjab                 27.1      8.2     66.6     66.5     70.9
20. Rajasthan              34.7    10.4      60.5     61.3     29.0
21. Sikkim                 20.9      5.8       NA       NA     21.9
22. Tamil Made             20.7      8.4     62.3     63.1     54.4
23. Tripura                23.1      7.6       NA       NA      17.4
24. Utter Pradesh          36.2    12.8      57.1     52.8     33.2
25. West 8engal            24.6      8.3     61.9     61.9     33.5
UNION TERRITORIES
26. A&N Islands            20.0      5.2       NA       NA     44.1
27. Chandigarh              15.4     3.3       NA       NA     42.7
28. Dadra & Nagar Havel    40.0    11.5        NA       NA     44.1
29. Damn & Diu             24.8      7.5       NA       NA     33.2
30. Delhi                   26.0     6.5       NA       NA     43.1
31. Lakshadweep             24.4     4.2       NA       NA       7.9
32. Pondicherry             19.5     6.7       NA       NA     62.2
Source : Registrar General, India; SRS Estimates.



65
eO Female & Male
Kerala                    - ;
Punjab                                              --
Harn  '      __i _'''          -  _ 
Kamnata                                __         i
Tamil Nadu
WagBenga                                                        Oo
Andbm PraPdh                                                          eOf
Bthar~~ __ _.,                                             O 
R fa&    _                                .'__!
Asiam n                               I
Uta    Fa eh         -_.                   _ _ _ _ _   ,___ __    _  .__ _ _
45.0       50.0      55.0       60.0       65.0       70.0       75.0
Years
Couple Protecion Rate
Punjab_           _   ...._
Tamil Nadu.     
HMana                           _    
Karat        _ __ _                   _  
Andhra Pradesh~  11         _ _     
West Bengal    _       _        _    sP
UttarPbs i                    ll_ 
Rajasth __
Assam__
Bihar s__ 1 - / f
0.0    10.0    20.0    30.o    40.0    SO.O    60.0    70.0    80.0
Percent



66                                       A-nnex I
Difference between eOfemale and eOmale in Years
Kerala_ 
Andhra Pradesh_
Maharashtra
Gujara.i
Tamil NaduJ
West Bna
Punjab.
Bihar                           1
Madhya Pradesh                         r
Ornssa_
Uttar Pradesh.                            p                 
Ilnfit Mortali Rate
Madhya Pradesh-
Bihar.    
Tamil Nad     
Ptuz                  _        _
Kaa                      .a
0         20          40        60          so         100        120
Deathstl,000 Live Births



67                                             Annex 1
TABLE 17 tiv)
India/States     Total Fertility Rate,1991   Infant Mortality Rate,1992
(per woman)            (per 1000 live births)
Combined   Rural    Urban   Combined   Rural    Urban
INDIA                3.6       3.9       2.7       79       85        53
ANDHRA PRADESH       3.0       3.1       2.5        71       78       42
ASSAM                3.5       3.6       2.1        76       78       50
BIHAR                4.4       4.5       3.5       72        74       49
GUJARAT              3.1       3.2       2.9       67        71       54
HARYANA              4.0       4.3       3.0       75        79       55
KARNATAKA            3.1       3.3       2.5       73        82       41
KERALA                1.8      1.8       1.7       17        17       13
MADHYA PRADESH       4.6       4.9       3.4       104      109       74
MAHARASTRA           3.0       3.4       2.5       59        67       40
ORISSA               3.3       3.4       2.3 1   114   I 117          80
PUNJAB               3.1       3.2       2.8       56        60       41
RAJASTHAN            4.6       4.9       3.7       89        93       65
TAMIL NADU           2.2       2.3       2.0       58       67        40
UTTAR PRADESH        5.1       5.4       3.7       98       102       78
WEST BENGAL          3.2       3.6       2.1       64        70       38
Note: SRS data on these indicators are not availabLe for smalLer States and Union Territories.
Source : Registrar Generalt  India; Censu 1991
Total Fertility Rate
Uttar Pradesh
Rajasthan       __
Madlha Pradesh
Bibar
HaAnaa
West Bna
Guljarat   Z                
Andhra Prha                     _            _
Tamil Nadu     _      _      
Kerala 
0.0          1.0          2.0          3.0         4.0          5.0          6.0
Aveage Live Biths(Woman



68                                      Annex 1
Population
Uttar Pradesh .l
Biha !  .1
West Bengal
Andhra Pradesh _
Madhya Pradesh  - i
Tamil Nadu 9
Karn=atk      __ 
RajashnE
Gujarat              }     I
Orissa _
Kerala
Punjab_
H aryana    X    ,
0.0      20.0     40.0      60.0     80.0    100.0    120.0    140.0
Milions
Rate of Natural Increase
Rajasthan      __ 
Utlar Pradesh     _                  
Madhya Pradesh
Punjab    _     ___
Gujarat_
Karnataka                                        _|1
Maharashtra       ___
WestBengal_
Andhra Pradeshu
Tamil Nadu            
0.0          0.5          1.0          1.5          2.0          2.5
Percent



- 69 -                             Annex-2
Outline of thy
Action Plan for Revamping the Family Welfare Program
And Steps Taken to Implement It To Date
1.        The India Family Welfare Program, though very successful in many ways and
responsible for significant declines in fertility and childhood mortality, has not realised its full
potential. In particular, fertility and contraceptive prevalence levels have in recent years
remained at a plateau still too high to reduce population growth in the face of continuing declines
in mortality. Many primary health care issues also remain difficult to resolve, in particular safe
motherhood care and child health interventions such as ORT, ARI treatment, vitamin A
supplementation and neonatal tetanus prevention.
2.        Recognising these problems, MOHFW issued an "Action Plan for Revamping the
Family Welfare Program" in early 1992. This Plan identifies major policy issues in the program
and lays down strategies for addressing them. Its twelve principal components are as follows:
(1) National Consensus and Effo4b: generation of strong commitment and
contribution to the program at national and state level, including among
political, religious and other opinion leaders.
(2) bImrovement of the Quality and Outreach of Services: this includes
several subcomponents, as follows;
-   consolidation of existing infrastructure
-   creating and strengthening new infrastructure in remote and tribal areas and
urban slums
-   developing and using new integrated training modules which would include
communication skills, and instillation of proper values and motivation
-   emphasis on setting up adequate maintenance systems for buildings, equipment
and vehicles
-   considerable improvement of supervision, with a focus on problem solving and
enhancement of provider performance
-   construction of new PHC and sub-centre buildings under Area projects and
State Minimum Needs Programs
-   improvement of living and working conditions for field workers such as
ANMs
-   appointment at the State level of a carefully-selected separate Secretary/Special
Secretary-level officer to be responsible for the Family Welfare program, with
a stable tenure of 2-3 years.
(3) Specal Strategy for 9  Districts: a disaggregated approach to program
strateg (as exemplified in on-going donor-assisted Area projects), with



- 70 -                             Annex 2
particular emphasis on a strategy for the 90 districts with the worst
demographic indicators in the four worst States (UP, MP, Rjasthan and
Bihar) including:
micro-level planning by the four States to identify needs in the districts for the
purposes of additional resource allocation
filling of all posts in the districts with good-quality staff
priority to these districts for sub-centre construction under Area projects
intensive training of service providers
involvement of minority community leaders in family planning IEC programs
promoting a variety of methods
piloting of link worker schemes to improve outreach communications, together
with efforts to cover all districts with ICDS programs that are well linked to
the Family Welfare program
full involvement of the District Collector in program coordination/supervision
in these districts
(4) Package of Incentives/Disincentives: modification of the current system of
targets and incentives for adoption of sterilisation and the IUD to make it
more flexible and effective, by:
removing overall 'tyranny of targets", though retaining micro-level planning
targets for monitoring purposes
providing greater flexibility to the States and covering younger couples
through spacing methods (details of resource devolution to be worked out by
a committee of nominated members)
developing a package of disincentives for GOI employees, which States and
large employers may also adopt, to promote the small-family norm
discontinuing fees for service providers who motivate (in order to broaden
method mix)
scrapping the States Award Scheme for good (to discourage unhealthy
competition and falsification of figures)
developing an innovative package of incentives/disincentives with emphasis on
community-based incentives (linked to benefits from government development
plans) and social security measures.
(5)  Promotion of Different Contraceptive Methods/Devices: broadening of the
contraceptive method mix from primarily sterilisation for older couples
with completed families to enhanced coverage of younger couples by a
variety of spacing methods, through:
good follow-up services for IUD acceptors to reduce discontinuation rdtes
better distribution systems for conventional contraceptives and pills in rural



-71 -                             Anne -2
and slum areas through strengthening of social marketing and launching of
community-based distribution schemes
improved quality of contraceptives, notably the replacement of dry by
lubricated condoms
improved production of pills
introduction of new methods such as Norplant and injectables
popularisation of no-scalpel vasectomy through a training program  for
providers
fertility research programs, with particular focus on vaccines, anti-fertility
drugs and indigenous medicine system contraceptives/abortifacients
(6) UIP and MCH Programs: special attention to parts of these programs that
are still lagging behind, including:
special attention to areas where UIP coverage is sfill low
investigation of all cases reporting UIP coverage over 100 percent (to avoid
unwarranted over-complacency)
concentration on improvement of UIP service quality and documentation of
disease reduction, including initiation of active surveillance in low-incidence
areas, setting up of a network of polio testing labs to test increased numbers
of field vaccine samples, and prompt investigation of adverse vaccine reactions
improvement of UIP program management by filling all supervisory posts
created so far
takdng over of cold chain maintenance by the States
more vigorous promotion of ORT through training of providers and health
education of the public, particularly mothers
implementation of the CSSM project (with particular mention of Vitamin a and
iron supplementation, ARI program expansion, strengthening of infrastructure
and dai training)
(7) UrbanA  Schemes: improvement of Family Welfare services in urban
slums, by:
opeaionalising urban revamping schemes to strengthen infrastructure and
services with funding support from the Central budget and donor agencies
enhancing involvement of voluntary agencies in these areas
monitoring and superv.sing urban facilities strictly, and if necessary closing
down or moving those not performing well
developing suitable coordinating mechanisms to ensure urban facilities function
in an integrated manner
(8) VI Ia Health Guide Scheme: salvage of as much as possible of the
scheme under its current problems of implementation, including the



- 72 -                             Annex 2
following steps:
follow-up of pending court cases to obtain a prompt decision
utilisation of existing VHGs by States to the extent possible, perhaps primarily
as motivators and depot-holders for contraceptives, ORS, iron tablets etc.
further in-depth examination of how to revitalise, or alternatively disband, the
scheme
(9) Continuation of ANM/LHV Training Schools: rationalisation of ANM
training schools in the face of declining needs for ANMs and under-
recruitment of male multi-purpose health workers, as follows:
thorough review of existing ANM/LHV training infrastructure in each state to
ensure proper and effective utilisation, with gradual closure of schools without
buildings or under PVO management and use of remaining schools for
integrated training modules and in-service training
creation hy States of MPW(M) posts to fill existing gaps and utilise training
infrastructure
development of networking and coordination between training infrastructures
at different levels to ensure uniformity of modules and non-duplication of
efforts
(10) Information. Education and Communication: revitalisation of IEC
programs through a new IEC strategy with the foDowing elements:
IEC messages which: associate Family Welfare with planned parenthood, not
just adoption of contraception; emphasize quality of life issues and the merits
of the Family Welfare program; and are balanced in such a way as not to
offend cultural sensitivities
strengthening of Mahila Swasthya Sangh schemes if pilots are successful, to
promote community involvement
special development of traditional art forms, field publicity and interpersonal
communication, in order to reach the 40 percent of the population not
currently covered by mass media
decentralised IEC material production, in order to cater to regional diversity
and local needs
regular refresher training of IEC staff to improve motivation and managerial
skls
preservation of IEC funds strictly for IEC, with full realisation of the
importance of IEC by the States
focus on IEC for males to promote the use of condoms and vasectomy
study by other States of the Rajasthan experiment of an integrated IEC bureau
for all Health and Family Welfare TEC, with linkages to other relevant sectors,



- 73 -                             Annex 2
with a view to possible replication.
(11) Involvement of Non-Governmental Sector: a pro-active effort to bring in
non-governmental groups systematically into the Family Welfare program,
such as youth groups, panchayat leaders, PMPs, commercial/industrial
organisations, trade unions, Zilla Parishads, PVOs etc., through:
-   identifying, recruiting, motivating and training such groups or individuals at
local level
-   giving increased powers to State governments (which may in turn devolve
them further to districts) to sanction NGO schenurs
-   arranging study tours for NGO workers from poorer-performing States to
well-performing States, together with use of training infrastructure to train
them in managerial skills
-   establishing a suitable central organisation to sanction and transfer funds for
NGO schemes with adequate flexibility
-   increasing Central Budget allocations to NGO schemes, together with greater
donor agency funding.
(12) Intersectoral Coordination: strengthening of coordination between the
Family Welfare program and other Government agencies also involved in
the population control program  (in the sectors of Human Resoure
Development, Finance, Information & Broadcasting, Environment and
Forests, Labour, Women and Child Development, Rural Development,
etc.), through:
-   development of a suitable institutional mechanism at central level to achieve
intersectoral coordination and periodic review of the population control
program, such as a high-level Population Commission chaired by the Prime
Minister
-   development of corresponding committees at State-level, chaired by the Chief
Minister and involving the Chief Secretary
-   involvement at district level of Deputy Commissioners and Chief Executive
Officers of the Zilla Parishads.
Prress to Date on Implementation of the Action Plan
3.        In the two years since this Acdon Plan was drawn up, much has been accomplished
by GOI and the States, with important assistance from Bank lending. The 90-District strategy
(component 3) is being launched under the Social Safety Net project. The CSSM   oiect is
addressing many of the issues and actions identified as needed in the UIP and MCH programs
(component 6). The process of modifying the targe:/incentive system (component 4) has begun
with the abolishing of motivating payments to providers and the decentralisation and de-



- 74 -                             Annex 2
emphasising of sterilisation targets, which now are set by states rather than MOHFW, and on
the basis of expected feasiwe achievement rather than needs as calculated from demographic
simulations. Most of the major concerns of the quality-improvement, urban schemes, VHG,
ANM-training and TEC components (2,7,8,9,10) are being addressed in the States and cities
covered under Area projects, notably the Bank's Urban Slums project (IPP VIII) and this
project. The involvement of NGOs (component 11) is being pursued under various Area
projects, notably the Bank's IPP V (Bombay and Madras) project and Seventh Population (IPP
Y II) pect and USAID's new UP project. And a high-level Population Commission has been
established as a sub-committee of the National Development council, under the chairmanship of
the Chief Minister of Kerala, and has begun work (components 1 and 12 on generation of
commitment, intersectoral coordination and population program review).
4.        There are however some reas in which progress has not been as good. The intended
next step of drawing up State plans for implementing the strategies set out in the Action Plan
has not gone far except under this project, thus hampering efforts to develop the full
commitment and contributions from every lev& .imed at in component 1. Similarly, the effort
to stabilise Family Welfare management is still no; fully underway. Nor is it likely to be possible
to implement many of the recommended actions in program quality, training, IEC, urban
schemes, and community link workers in States or cities which do not benefit from Area project
funding.
5.        Most noticeably, progress has been slow on component 5, the promotion of a wider
mix of contraceptive methods with emphasis on younger couples and spacing methods. Some
small advances have been made; the combined pill has been cleared for social marketing, an area
for which funding is also available under the Bank's Seventh Population (IPP VII) project;
injectables have been licensed for the private-sector market; trials of Norplant are underway; and
some effozis have also been made to promote greater uptake of the pill and the IUD in the
regular program. Overall, however, little change in the method mix has yet occurred.



75
Key Projct ludicators
* proiect inOacldkt
Key Indicaton
1ns2zucd4on:    Infraonm  on kby indbcaom should be provide bond on avaiabl izmauwi. The
physil compkletio  sg,a should be zeponed oan a six-nt  bs.  Addk_nly, any apppriae
pprg=op        i,di& s sh  be iclded in the repot A      a naysi of Sid        sm    should be
.    _ edmatti  and a    usented withX the sem!trt
Asasm                                         _     _Etk
________a_r-Line   . Lt   B8eLn   .owt    Bwase-n          rw
CBR (Da 1000)               27.5        21       28            20        33.6         2!
CPR%(TOl)-                  29.3        60       47            60        _ ___60
CPR X PennanentMet.tods                          ___
CPR % Teorn  rvjMethods
TotalaFertliy Rate R) _C ) 
IM  (PerC1000)              77          SO       7             so         77          60
MUMR (ve 100.000,           40          20       60            20         SO          20
CM. (per 1000)              41.2        >10 



76                                     Annelx3
Intennediate Indicators to be used by each State
Indicator                               Source      |             Validation
Realth/FW Status & Serices
% Coverage Matenal Immniaions           HS           Monty        EPI Suvevs        A.KR
% Coverage Children nmmunizations       HMS          Moiwh        EPI Surveys       A.  R
.  .   ~        HM
% Tempowrai conraetive use              HMIS         hknti        Surveys_
% Permanent contraceptv use             HIS          Mon          Sureys
# Children ORT Treatment                Surv         Base-line    Sunrgys
# ANM Resident                          Suwvey       Yearlv       Sample Survey
% ANM Resident                -slY                   Yely         Sample Survey     A. K. R
# Visits/Month by ANM                   HMMoS  MY                 Sample Survey     14 R
% SCs with own building                              baseline   /
Cell         Mid-Term     __
% Institional Births                    HMIS         Monty        EC Records        A
% Births at FRU                         HMS          Monthly      EC Records        A
% Births attended by health staff       H?IS         Moy          Sample Survey     K R
% Pregnant with ANC care                HMIS         Monthly      Sample Survy
% Children Vit-a Sulements                                                          A
% Pregnant Women getting Iron                                                       A
Prolect/PronrM  Manafemtent Indictors_____   __________
% Complete proect staffing (vacant positios PMIS  I Six-Monthly                     A. KR
/ person months)                        Personnel
% and $ Project Expenditure vs. Budget (by  Project  Six-Monthly                    A. K, R
component ,I.llILIV, Innovative Schemes)   Budget
$ allocated in SAR / Sanctioned by GOI  Project      Six-Monthly                    A. KR
Budfft 
% FW Prgram posts filled by level/Category  PMI;  / Six-Monthly  Sample Surveys    A
Pesoel                  _
% Coverage of available Supplies        Project      Six.Monthly  Imrentory Review   Y. R
Trainina Indicators
% and # MO's Trained                    Survey    t baseline   I                    A, 4R
TrDing       Six-Monthly
Records
% and # ANMrs Trained (by Wm of traiiing)  _                                        A,KR
% and # LHV's Trained (bv type of training)   _      _            _RA.K.
% and # WHP's Trained (by type of traininR) ."'                                     A,1R



77                                      Annx 
% and # Paramedical's Trained (by type of       ""                                   A. K. R
training)
% Skill level by (Category of staff/Skills to be  Survey  / baseline   / Sample Surveys I
specified)                              Skills test I annual       Management
Survey                    Evaluations
IEC Indicators                                            __
% of items in annual TEC plan completed  Project Plans  Six-Monthly
% of $ expended against target for materials   Project Plans  Six-Monthly            A
% EEC message awareness by targeted groups  Survey    Base-Line / Sample Surveys     A
(per [EC Plan)                                        annual
% awareness Non-Tennina! Methods        Surey         Base-Line I Sample Surveys    A.K.R
annual
% awareness Small Family Nonns          Survey        Base-Line / Sample Surveys    A,kR
annual
% awareness Legal age of Marriage       Survey        Base-line / Sample Survqs      A.Y.R
annual
_ ~~Sunrvey_
% awareness Non-Terminial Methods       Survey        Base-Line / Sample Surveys    A. K. R
annual
_  _   __                       ~~~~~~~~~Survey
NGOllnnovative Schemes
Number of innovative schemes implemented   Project    annual       Management
Information /             Monitoring
Survey
# NGO's participating                   Project       annual       Management
Information /             Monitoring
Survey
Estimated NGO Population Coverage       Project       annual       Management        K. R
Information /             Monitoring
Survey
Infrastructure Indicators                       .
# & % Facilities under construction &   Constiruction   Six-Monthly  Quality Surveys I
Completed (by category, % completed)    Cell / Project             Independent
_____________________________Information   _____
$ over/under budget (by type of faicilities)  Project  N
_ _ __ _   Information   ______
% facilities commissioned and completed                           _                  A.KLR
SC's
PHC's
Warehouses    __________.
Training Institutions
Boat Clinics
Mobile Clinics                                                                .
% facilities up£aded to new categsry                                                 A. K. R
CHC to FRU
Disp. to PHC                             __    __       =__
% facilities rehabilltatedzpigraded.               ._   A.KR



78                                         A
SC       'IIII                                                                                     I
PHC__                                                          _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _
CHC                                                         _
Training Institutions    _     _    _
%  faciliies fully equipped, staffed and                           _                        A}K%R
functioning
PHC
.FRU                                                                     _  _  _  _  _  _
CHC                                         _              L_._._ 
Warehouses
Mobile Clinics                                             _            _
Boat clinics



79                                      AnICL3
Key Project Indicators
Rajasthan
Pn,lec imnat indicator
B_aM-Line   Target
CBR (per 1000)             27.5        21
CPR % (Total)              29.3        60
CPR % Permnanent Methods
CPR % Temporary mehods
IMR (per 1000)             77.0        50
WAR (per 100,000)          40          20
CMR (per 1000)             41.2        >10
Assm                     Base-line       Target at Project    Number to be completed
____________________    S___________    Completion            wider project
PHCs                      _  _ _  _  _                          _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _
Taining Instons                                 _ 
Boat Clinics      ..
Mobile Clinics
FRU 's_                    _   _   _  _  _   _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _   _    _   _
CHC   to FRU             _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _     _  _   _  _  _   _  _
Dip isary to PHC           _             _      _.    _
SC, Rehabilitated     _ 
PHCs R     i
CHCs REbiliated
Intermediate Indicators to be used by Asam
Indcator                                       % comple proec safi  (          pos
ealthFWStatus &Seres                      P m nhs)
% Covage 4aternal I                            % and S Proe  Expenditure vs. Budget (by
% Coverage Children Immunizations              c_mponentIM_V, Innovative__ )
% Temporarv conraceptive use                   % FW Proam  sts filled bsr leveUCate
% Permanent contceptv use                      $ alloatd in SARI Saned by (01
% ANM Resident                                 _______            Indicators
% Instituiional Births                         % and # M0s Trained
% Births at FRU                                % and # ANMs Trained (by type of tiNn)
% Children Vit-A Supplements                   % and # LHV's Trained (by type of taining)
% Pregant Women getling lion                   % and # WHPs Trained (  type of tuaining)
Pre rem  Mananemt Indicators                  % and # Paramedicars Trained (by type of
t  This form to be filled in afte bs line se is completd. Th numbe to be completd in th
project is swn in the SAR



80                                      Anizzl
% ]EC message awans by targeted groups
(per EC Plan)
% Awarens Non-Terminal Methods
% Awaens Small Famly Norms
% Awareness Leg age of Marriage
% Awareness Non-Terminal Methods
Infrastrure Indicators
# & % Facilities under construcion &
Completed (by category, %c c)mleted)
S over/under budget (by type of acidiiles)
% facilties emmisoned and completed
SCs
PHC's
Warehouses
Training Institiiions
Boat Clinics
Mobile Clinics
% faduities upraded to new catory
CHC to FRU
Disp. to PHC
% facilties rehabiltted/upgraded.
SC
PHC
DCHC X
ITaniing Instittions
%  faclites fuUly equipped, staffed and
f%dosing
SC
PHC
FRU
CHC
Warehoues
Mobile Clinics
Boat clinics



81                                      Annex 3
Key Project Indicators
Karmataka
Project Imnact Indkators
Kamataka   I_         l
Base-Line    Target
CBR (per 1000)             28            20
CPR % (Total)              47            60
CPR % Permanent Methods
CPR % Temporary Methods                  _
IMR (per 1000)             7             50
MMR (per 100,000)          60            20
CMR (per 1000)                          I
Pbvsical Completion Tareets
Karnataka                Base-line       Target at Project    Number to be completed
Completion          under project
S C 's                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _
PHC's
Training Institutions               _    _
Boat Clinics             ___ ___                                   _____
Mobile Clinics
FRUs  _____ _
CHC to FRU
Dispensaiy to PHC
SC. Rehabilitated                      _                ___
PHCs Rehabilitated 
CHCs Rehabilitated
Intermediate Indicators to be used by Kamataka
Indicator                                      $ allocated in SAR / Sanctioned by 301
Health/FW States & Services              % Coverage of Available Supplies
% Coverage Maternal Immunizations                         Trauinir Indicators 
% Coverage Children Immunizations              % and # MO's Trained
# Visits/Month by ANM                          % and # ANMs Trained (by type of training)
% Institutional Births                         % and # LHVs Trained (by type of training)
% Births at FRU                                % and # WlPs Trained (by type of training)
% ANM Resident                                 % and # PanamedicalVs Trained (by type of
% Births Attended by health staff             tWaining)
Proiecti/Prorm Manageme  Indicators           % Skdl level by (Categoty of stafSkills to be
% Complete projea staffing (vacant positions   specified)
I person months)                                            IEC ndicators
% and S Projea Expenditure vs. Budget (by      % Awareness Non-Teminal Methods
component I,1I,I,IV, Innovative Schemes% Awareness Small Famiy Norms



82                                      Ann    I
% Awareness Legal age of Marriage
% Awareness Non-Termtil Methods
NGOJlnnovative Schemes
Estimated NGO Population Coverage
Infrastructure Indicators
# & % Facilities under construction &
Completed (by categor. % competed)
% facilities commissioned and completed
SC's
PHC's
Warehouses
Training Institutions
Boat Clinics
Mobile Clinics
% facilities upzraded to new category
CHC to FRU
Disp. to PHC
% facilities rehabilitated/upgraded.
SC
PHC
CHC
Training Institutions
% facilities fully equipped, staffed and
functioning
SC
PHC
FRU
CHC
Warehouses
Mobile Clinics
Boat clinics



83                                      Annex 3
Key Project Indicators
Assam
Proiect Imnact Indicators
Assam
Base-Line   Target
CBR(per 1000)               27.5       21
CPR % (Total)               29.3       60
CPR % Pemanent Methods               ___
CPR % Temporay Methods              .
IMR (per 1000)              77.0       50
MMR (per 100,000)          40          20
CMR (pe: 1000)             41.2        >10
Physical Conmnletion Tareets
Assam                    Base-line       Target at Project    Number to be completed
.________________ _  Completion  under project
S C 's                   ___  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _
PHCs                      _              _                    _     _ _        _ _
Tmining Institutions                          .
Boat  C lincs_ _              _   _  _    _ _ _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _   _   _  _  _  _
Mobile Clinics
FRU's           __                                     ___                     _
CHC to FRU                _            T
Dispeny to PHC                          
PHCs Rehabilitated        __ ______
CHC's  R ehabilitated    _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Internediate Indicators to be used by Assam
I__d   __ator                          |       % and $ Project Expendite vs. Budget (by
HealihWW Status & Senices                component .IlIII, Innovative Schemes )
% Coverage Maternal Imm zatiom  posts filled by 1eeCteg or
% Coverage Children Immuniztions               $ allocated in SAR / Sanctioned by GOI
% Tempo__________wtiye_use_Training Indicators
% Permanen contrceptive use                    % and # MO's Trained
______ANM    __________________                % and # ANMs Trained (by type of training)
% Institutionl Births                          % and # LHVs Trained (by tp of trai!ing)
% Births at FRU                                                            of traning)
% Children Vit-A Supplements                   % and # Paramedical's Trained (by typ of
% Pregna Women getting iron                   _tmining)
ProiectProrm Ma _AM t Indicators                           JEC Indicators
% Complete project staffing (vacant positions  % of items in annual IEC plan completed
/ person months)                               % of $ expended against target for materials



84                                      AglM  3
% IEC message awaeness by targeted  ps
(per IEC Plan)
% Awareness Non-Tenminal Methods
% Awarnes~s Smail Family Normns
% Awaren      Legal age of Mama
% Awareness Non-Terminal Methods
Infrastnwwre Indk8i10
# & % Facilities under consructi  &
Completed (by categorg. % completed)
$ overAunder budget (by type of faities)
% facilities commissioned and completed
SCs
PHCs
Warehouses
Training Insitutiions
Boat Clinics
Mobile Clinics
% failtes upraded to new category
CHC to FRU
Disp. to PHC
% facilities rhabietatb luparaded.
SC
PHC
CHC
Training InstiUttions
%  facilities fuly equipped, stafed and
functioning
SC
PHC
FRU
cHC
Warehouses
Mobile Clinics
Boat clinics



85                                 Annex 4
Sunmary  Ist of Civil Works
To be Undtake  under th            In AMi. Ralastn and KaRnataka
ASSAM
NAME OF UNIT             NO OF UNrr    UNIT AREA             UNIT COST
Sevice Delivery
1.   Sub-Centers - New                 800          78 sqm             "64,000
2.   Sub-Centers - renovation           50                                 50
3.   Upgrading to PHCs of State
Dpnsaries                         100         100 sqm            310,000
4.   ANM quaes at PHCs                  88          43 sqm             135,000
5.   GradeNVquartersatPHCs              75          35sqm              111,000
6.   Upgrading (physical) to FRUs
of CHCs and Civil Hospital        37                -            300,000
7.   Renovations of existing buildings
at all facilities to be upgrading to
FRUs                              39
Training
8.   Extensions to SHFWTC, Khanapara,
Guwahati                            1         800 sqm          3,280,000
9.   Extensions to RHTC, Chabua          1         637 sqm           2,230,000



86                                  Anx 4
NAME OF UNff  NO OF UN1T UNIT AREA                        UNIT COST
10.  Extensions to ANM/GNM Training Centers
School building               17      500 sqm     1,750,000
100-Student Hostels           4     1,235 sqm     4,322,000
20-Student Hostels            5           375    1,312,000
Proje  Mnent
11.  Office Building                1      554 sqm     1,913,000



87                                 Annex
KARNATAKA
NAME OF UNIT       NO OF UNIT  UNfT AREA                  UNIT COST
Seice Delivery
1.   Sub-centers - new          1,039       64 sqm      243,200
PHCs - new                   94             -      780,000
2.   Rehabilitation of Health Centres
sCs                       2,212             -       16,000
PHCs                        327             -       60,300
CHCs                         48             -       99,000
3.   Medical Officers' quarters
at PHCs                     271        71 sqm      268,280
4.   Upgrading to FRUs of CHCs    72              -       75,000
Training
5.   District Training Centers     19      575 sqm     2,185,000
6.   H!FWTCs - Upgrading at
S locations                   1             -    6,365,000
7.   LHV/ANM Schools in various
locations                     1             -   26,391,000
8.   IHFW Office Building           1      500 sqm     1,900,000



88                                 Annex 
RtAJASTHAN
NAME OF UN1T              NTO Or  UJJ1T  UNIT COST      TOTAL COST
1.   Sub centers                600          2.50            750.00 (Project share)
A. By DRDA (1.25 by DRDA)
B. by N.G.Os & DRDA        260          2.50            195.00
(0.75 by the project and
rest by NGO & 'nmmunity)
2.   Const. of O.Ts at FRUs      48           4.00            192.00
3.   Const. of SIHFW Building     1         250.00           250.00
4.   Const. of New HFWTC at Jodhpur           1               165.00165.00
5.   Const. of FPDA for New HFWTCI            4.00             4.00
6.   Upgradation for two existing  2          6.60             13.20
HFWTC (Jaipur & Ajmer)
7.   Const. of DTCs               2          65.25            130.50
8.   Upgradation of DTC          13          25.35           329.55
9.   Const. of FPDA for DTC      15           4.00            60.00
10.  Computer site prep. Statistical unit 1   1.00             1.00
11.  Computer site for prep. at Districd0    0.50             15.00
12.  Computer site for prep. at Hqrs  1      0.50              0.50
13.  Const. of Sub center       t00           1.07           107.00
Delivery Room
14.  UJpgrading of OTs and      100          0.20             20.00
Delivery Room at FRUs
15.  Const. of new PHCs          25         20.00            500.00



89                                   A  4
NAME OF UNIT               NO OF UNIT  UNrI COST          TOTAL COST
16.  Upgrading of PHCs t CHCs  10              17.00            170.00
17.  Const. of Drug              1             100.00           100.00
Warehouses at State level
18.  Const. of Drug              10            25.00            250.00
Warehouses at Major
Districts
19.  Const. of Drug warehouses    20          12.50            250.00
at other Districts
20.  Upgradation of Drug Test Lans   1        30.00              30.00
21.  Installation and              10          10.00            100.00
Procurement of Hospital
waste disposal
(ncinerators etc.)
TOTAL                                        3632.



90                                Annex
Model Plans for SubCentre Buildings
1 Assam. Rajasthan and Karnataka
And Special Techniques and Procedures for Construton
1.        This Annex shows model plans for sub-centre buildings. Though small and sim5ple
in themselves, these buildings constitute by far the major component of the nroject's ciil works
pogrm  in all thuee states. Assam plans to construct 800 buildings for existing sub-centres now
operating from rented premises, Rajasthan 860 buildings, and Ka-nataka 1,039 buildings. Notes
are also atached on the special methods of construction that will be used in Assam and on the
procedures by which construction will be carried out in Rajasthan through partnership between
the Department of Health and Family Welfare, district DRDAs and selected NGOs.
ASSAM
Model Sketch Plan for Assam Sub-Cente Building
0 0
CL1   iC-
Clt^tt bt^



91
Details of Assam Sub-Centre Pl
The Sub-Center will provide clinical facilities as well as quarters for the ANM.
Plinth areas is 78 sqm.
Clinical area - Waiting/IECverandah    12.5 sqm
Consulting room       11
Examination room      7
Toilet                 2
ANM quarters -                     Verandah (enclosed) 8 sqm
Living room           12
Bed room              9
Kitchen                8
Toilet                 2
A door will link the ANM quarters with the clinic. This enable supavisin of
patients who may be held over night for observation without the ANM having to go outside.
Note on Sub-Centre Construction Methods in Assam
2.        Construction of sub-centre buildings will generally be based on a devalopaent of
the traditional method of construction in Assam. Vertical posts, which have tritonaly been
of timber, will be replaced by slender concrete posts (130x 130 mm). Above will be a post plate
(wall plate) of timber. In-fill walls will be 115 mm brickwork. this construction, altough na
as secure against earthquake movement nor providing as good an internal climatic environment
as the entirely taditional form of construction, is considered acceptable. In remote areas,
particularly in N.C. Hills District where costs will be high as a result of transport difficules,
construction may be entirely traditional if necessary.



92                                Annelx S
MMadl  ked Pl  for Karnataka Sub-Cenrm  Buid"p
A~~~~~~NP
The Sub-Center will provide clincal facilities as well as quarters for the ANM.
Plinth sare is 78 sqm.
Clincal area - Waiting/MEverandah    6.5 sqm
Consulfti  room        7
Examnination room      9.5
Toilet                 2.5
ANGA quarter -                       Living room 7 sqm
Bed room               7
Kitchen                5
Store                   I
Toilet                 2.5
Kitchen yard (open)    5



93                                A
Note ot, Sub-Centre Construction Methods in Karnataka
1.        Construction will utilise local natual stone, wherever available. in order to keep
maintenance needs and costs as low as possible, stone walls will neither be rendered or painted
externally. Roofs will be pitched (sloping) to avoid risks of leakage of tapped rainwater.
RAASTIHAN
Model Sketch Plan for Ra3asthan SubCentre Building
g-- =                                  SLJBCENTRE FOR IPP IX
,ATOILET    H W.C.           Delivery Room and waiting
%r7rT1 T/ i/  &,1 |as "hatchedc  area are to be
constructed only in selected
Sub Centres.
PLINTH AREA WITHOUT
OPEN     KITCHEN       DELIVERY ROOM = 809 SqFt
EXAMINATION    COURTYARD
PLINTH AREA WITH
DELIVERY ROOM = 1019 SqFt
F-7 [    |  |ILIVING
co00        I            ROOM
CLINIC    BED
ROOM
VERANDAH                VEANDAH
|            _   ..~EE



94                               AnRM 5
Proures..for Shared Sub-Centre Construction in Rajasthan
1.        Under IPP IX, it is proposed to construct Health Sub Centers in 10 districts of the
State covered by the aforesaid project. Construction of these sub-centers is proposed to be
financed psity out of Jawahir Rojgar Yojna (JRY) funds available with the DRDAs of the
districts cowered under the project. Construction cost of the one sub-center is Rs. 2.50 lakh out
of which 50% amount i.e., Rs. 1.25 lakh per sub-center shall be provided by DRDA out of JRY
funds and the rest amount would come from World Bank Project which would be entirely used
for material component. The ratio of wage and material component of 60:40 shall be observed
as regards the JRY funds i.e. at least Rs. 0.75 lakh would be spent against wage component and
Rs. 0.50 lakh for material component. Some of the sub-centers are proposed to be constructed
through NGOs; in such cases 30% of the construction cost would be contributed by the
NGOs/viliage community as people's participation, 30% would be provided from World Bank
Project and the rest 40% would be contribut-d from the JRY funds by the DRDAs.
JAWARAR ROJGAR YOJANA: Main Features
2.        Jawahar Rojgar Yojana is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme ard 80% of the expenditure
under the Yojana is borne by the Central Government in the Ministry of Rural Development and
20% by the State Government.  The Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India
transfers its 80% share as Central share to the State Govemment and the State Government
contributes 20% as State share and then the amount of Central as well as State shares is
transferred to the concerned DRDAs for execution of various schemes and construction activities
to be undertaken under JRY.
3.        The main obijecive of the JRY is generation of additional gainful employment for
the unemployed and the under-employed persons and also, creation of durable productive
community assets. Works like Social Forestry, Soil and Water Conservation works, Minor
Irrigation works such as construction of community irrigation wells, Drawings and Field
Channels, Floods Protection works, Irrigation works, construction of Rural Roads, Land
development and Reclamation of Wastelands, Construction of commumty worksheds,
Dispensaries, Panchayat Ohars, Community Centers, Anganbaris, Primary School Buildings etc.
can be taken up under this Yojana.
4.        Out of the funds transferred to DRDAs under JRY, 28% funds used to be earmarked
for individual beneficiary schemes like Indira Awaas, Million Wells and expnditure on
establishment and administration. Of the remaining 72% , 80% was transferred to Gram.
Panchayats by DRDAs for various construction activities listed above and 20% funds used to
be retained at the DRDA level which was called as earmarked funds at the district level. This
amount could be spent on inter Panchayat Samiti/inter Gram Panchayat works. From this year,
the Government of India has slightly revised the guidelines and now 42% of the total annual
allocation is to be earmarked for individual beneficiary programs like Indira Awaas Houses,
Million Wells Scheme and expenditure on administraion and establishment. Of the remaining



95                               Anne 5
58% amount, 80% is to be transferred to Gram Panchayats i.e., 46.40% of the entire annual
allocation and 11.60% of the annual allocation is to be retained at the district level which can
be spent on inter Panchayat Samiti and inter Gram Panchayat works. For the funds transferred
to Gram Panchayats, the execution agency is Gram Panchayat and for the funds retained at the
district level, the executive agency can be either the district level Heads of Departments of the
concerned Nodal Department or the Panchayat Samitis. The contractor is not allowed and all
the works under JRY are required to be executed as departmental works. The wage material
component ration of 60:40 is required to be maintained and if funds are additionally required
for material cbnmponent the same can be made available either from the State Plan funds or from
other sources.
AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS UNDER JRY:
5.       In t1. 10 districts covered under IPP IX R4jasthan Project, the annual allocation of
funds during the coming four years from financial year 1994-95 to 1997-98 as well as the funds
available at Gram Panchayat and DRDA leveis for execution of works have been shown in the
Annexure-I. From the Annexure-I, it be seen that the earmarked funds at the district level in the
year 1994-95 ranges from 38.10 lakh for Sirohi district to 88.15 lakh for Barmer district.
Presuming that there would be a cumulative increase of 10% in annual allocation under JRY in
each year in the coming four years under the IPP IX Project period, the amount expected to be
made avaiWl be to Gram Panchayats and at the district level as earmarked district level funds has
been shown in al the 1Q districts. It would be seen from the perusal of Enclosure 1 that the
minimum amount is available in district Jaisalmer as 25.82 lakh and the maximum amount would
be mrade available with Barmer district to the tune of Rs. 88.15 lakh during the year 1994-95.
6.       In the p oject report for IPP IX, 860 Health Sub-enters have been proposed to be
constructed with 50% Lontribution by the DRDAs from JRY funds. Accordingly, it is proposed
to construct 860 Sub-Centres in 10 Project Districts, by udlising JRY funds over a period of 5
years, starting from 1994-95. The cost of construction of each Sub-center would be Rs. 2.50
lakhs, of which 50% share will be paid by the respective DRDAs District. The details regarding
the phasing of the proposed construction is at Annex-II.
7.        Wage: Material component of 60:40 is required to be maintained under JRY
guideLines for construction works. Out of Rs. 1.25 lakh proposed to be given from JRY, the
wage component would be Rs. 75,000/- and material component would be Rs. 50,000/-. The
entire amount of Rs. 1.25 lakh to be made available from World Bank funds for construction
of Sub-centers would be available for material component. Thus, Material : Wage component
ratio may go upto ,0:30 in which these buildings for housing the Sub-centers can easily be
constructed.
EXECUTING AGENCY FOR THE WORK:
8.        The Gram Panchayats have been constructing various buildings under JRY program



96                               Annex 
like Panchayat Llars, Health Sub-centers, Anganbaris etc and during last four years, a number
of such buildings have been constructed in each district by the Gram Panchayats. The number
of buildings constructed under JRY during last four years have been shown in the Enclosure 3.
The local labour and local masons are enpged for the construction of the buildings by the Gram
Panchayats and construction of proposed Health Sub-centers under IPP IX would also be
undertaken by the Gram Panchayats as in case of construction of other buildings for which
standards, model approved maps would be made available to the Gram Panchayats by the
DRDAs.
SUPERVISION AND MONITORING:
9.        In each Panchayat Samiti, there is one post of Junior Engineer who supervises the
construction works of the Gram Panchayats and provides all necessary technical guidance to
these bodies. He is empowered to accord technical sanction of the works costing upto Rs. 1.00
lakh. There is one post of Assistant Engineer at each DRDA level who also supervises the
construction works undertaken by the Gram Panchayats and also provides necessary technical
assistance and guidance to the Junior Engineer and the Gram Panchayats. Besides the above
mentioned functionaries, Project Director, DRDA and other officers of the Agency along with
Vikas Adhikari at the Panchayat Samiti level also make the field visits and inspect the
construction works from time to time and do necessary supervision and provide necessary
gudance to the Gram Panchayats. Monitoring of the construction works would be done by
Project Director at the district level and Vikas Adhicari at the Panchayat Samiti level.
10.       Civil Works, the estimated cost of which exceeds Rs. 2.00 lakh are technically
approved by the distrct level Heads of technical departments like Executive Engineer, P.W.D,
Irrigation etc. In the present case, there would be a standard plan for each Sub-center the desig
of which would be approved by the State Government and the cost estimates and technical
sanction would be accorded by the district Executive Engineer of the concerned district. Site and
location for construction of Sub-centers would be decided by PMO of the district in consultation
with the authorities of DRDA including Project Directr of the DRDA.
Flows of Funds to the Project
11.       The financial assistance shall be received by the Government of India from World
Bank under IPP IX. The Government of India shall credit this amount in the State Plan of
Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department of Government of Rajasthan. Then on the
advice of Special Schemes & Integrated Rural Development shall arrange the release of so
received funds in the P.D. Accounts of the concerned District Rural Development Agencies.
Thereafter the DRDAs shall further release the funds to the executing agencies in instalment
which shall depend on the progress of works.
12.       As regards JRY funds the amount is released by the Governmeat of India to DRDAs
through State Government and it will continue to be done so. The DRDAs would sanction



97                                                  Annex
amount from JRY funds for making contribution towards 50% share for constructon of Haft
Sub-centers and tis amount also along with share to be contributad from the project funds would
be tUansferred to te concerned executive agencies who will be entrusted with the constuton
of sub-center buidings.
BrAIUIT UOW_O AVAIA3IX OF  M Oa=RY *3FM 1994-M TOM79
8  Di t199.95                                                                              1996-97               1997- 9
No.
80%      20%    TOW         %       20%      Toga    80%       20%       Tota      60       20%      TOW
GOn      DRDA             Gum       DRDA              GIue    DRDA                  rmC  DRDA
Pah                       Peac                        P*O*-                        P_ak
&Yai                      aya                         *y                             at
1. BARMHR          335.9       .15   406.74   367.5    9696    44.1   426."    1066          533.3    469.30   117.32    536.4
2. DUCANBR          I69.92   47.88  237.80   20.91    52A7   261.    229.80    57.93         27.73   25L27      65.7    S16.30
3. CIIRmU           191l2   47J9  239.41   210.67    52A66   26335   231.73    57.95    289A8   25490   60.74    SIL44
4. JOHPIJR         23L36   57PA3  289.19   254.49    63.61   318.10   279.93    69.97    349.90   307.92    76.97    3t4b9
S. NAGAUR          300132   75.07  37539   33035    82.58    41293   36338    90.33          454.21   399.1    99.91    4S9JS3
6. PAJ             277.5    69.36   346.93   305.30    76.32   381.62   3353.3    63.95    419.78   369.41    92.34    461.75
7. SIHXXI           152.42   38.10   190.52   167.66    41.91    209.57   18442    46.10    230.52   20286   50.71    253.57
L. JALORE          214.26   53.57  267J13   235.68    5.3 - 294.61   259.25    64.82    5207   25.17    71.30    56.47
9. (IANGAJIAGAR   29459   74.15  370.74   32625    81.56    407.1   356.57    89.71           4428   39S75    96.66    498.43
10. JAISALMBR       10333   25.82   129.15   1I1A6    28.40    142.06   12L02    31.24    15626   137.52   54.36    171.33
TOrAL:          2309.6  577.84 2855.70  2540.2   635.62  3176.44 2794.57   699.16    3493.73  3074.33  769.05  3S43*



PIj    .   22 *          2    R °    2  
j.}          2 2 2 o S         2 n  °    2  
I   J4          2    2:          2    2    -      
i   ta                             at     
I   ]4     i   E:                           -IIq       g|fl2
I~~                                   II
§   .  0      g      lg  |   i gXE



99                                            An= 5
YAR-WISE DETAnBsO  AMn =MAIU MUMS  MM? IRO                          T ISOM
S. Diauict
No.           P,:a7  h&         B.  IMih    8B14           OSm    Tuu        Puimtyl  Pea.  Bids.   IWais  SWhy    Ode   TaI
Sw    di  ay       l       odW    Lo.                          AMIs   chat             beenta  LaL
Blg.                                                          bbg.
1,. Sarm-                     t10      141               S111      2415     172      18    250       18      26       829   1313
2. Biner       67       S       a                25         a n3             175     13      24               14      161    367
3. Cau        161      12       22                6 X               6aX      174      6    159        8     790        11      37
4. Iodput    243        1       IS       -          #9              533      160                      -      49          -    209
S. Nagaw      293      67      179       1      Is1        m1      222        37      2       *          *  100       706    8W
6.Pi'  -                     -           -      11l      l9       12_6            -                                    ,
7. Sirhi        .       .           .             7                   7               -       -              13       295    308
S. Jali                 -      320               U         s        04           .          584           -    .              S"
9. G _aa-     231      34      135              124        27       731      104      -    239        1      35       360    739
Nagar
10 Jiai r       -       -      209       -       74          .                -43          463        -      *3         -   481
TOTAL      995    119      2113    141       40        S3       9242      822     39   1719       19     263       3141   6003



100                                           "NMI
WR-WME ETL OF ASSI8 CRETED UNDER MR                      M I    14OTO 1t-*
8. Dist"t
No.          Ptim.y  Pa-   Bldg.  Mabib   Saimy    O               ToWa  Pdsiaqy   P.  BWk.   MAh  Smib8y   O0S   Tdl
M""dla   ad             Mmda    LX.                            Mi      dce           Wadl LW.
Bld8.                                                        UMg.
t. Bsrnwt                       -       -        .       956      936            -                  -               834    834
2.11lmw       113      7       64                8         34      226      37       2     20       6       8        104    177
. cum         122     84       32      31                 147      416     136       S     42      24       tt      144    362
4. JdApuw     11o                                -       1191    1301       40       -       -                         *     40
S. Nag9                        23                -       1509    1631       149      4    116        -      t       598   n8
6.M             -       -        -      -                 166      166     148      35   6M               45       362   1190
?.Sibi          -      -         -               -          -                        -      -                        197    197
S. 1dor        20             252       -        -          .      272       9              -                       205    214
9. anga
N4pr         89       -                       40        257      386      51       -      -        -              452   s5
loJi_-ah            -       .           -        -       260      260        2       1                              27 -  3    276
TUrAL:        553     71      371      31       46       4520    5614      572      45    778      so      80      3169   4076



101                              Annexi
Criteria for Selection of Comnunities and Sites
To Receive Newly-Contructed Sub-Centre Building
Assam. Rajasthan and Karmataka
1.        A list of criteria drawn up by each state is given below. An example from Karnataka
of the set of maps, including a village sketch map, which will be used to record the location and
siting of each sub-centre building for the purposes of project records and supervision is also
attached as a model.
ASSAM
2.        Locations and sites for construction of new Sub-Centers will be selected on the basis
of the following criteria:
(a)  The location must be already have a sanctioned and functioning Sub-Center in
rented accommodation or in a government owned building beyond repair i.e. New
SCs will all be replacement of existing.
(b)  The existing SC must come under the supervision of a functioning PHC or FRUT.
(c)  The existing SC must be staffed with a female health worker (ANM)
(d)  There must be a need for the facility expressed by the community
(e) Land must be shown to be available in within the village, to provide easy access for
the community as well as security for the ANM
(f)  The community must be committed to ensuring that future maintenance of the
buildings is carried out.
KARNATAKA
3.        Locations and sites for construction of new Sub-Centers will be selected on the basis
of the following criteria:
(a) Remoteness from the nearest PHC
(b) Having low levels of child immunization and contraceptive prevalence
(c) Availability of suitable site of at least 225 sqm within the village, providing easy
access for the community and security for the ANM



102                               Anex 6
(d) The site must be well drained and have suitable environmental conditions
RAJA
Locations and sites for construction of new Sub-Centers will be selected on the basis
of the following critedra:
(a)  Need-based sub-centers already sanctioned as per ste level planning
(b) Availability of suitable land in a village near village centre and major buildings, eg.
near market place, panchayat headquarters, primary school, post office etc., where
construction is technically feasible
(c) Approachability and accessibility by community
(d) Sub-center running in rented building
(e) Adequate provision of water and electricity
(t) Proximity to Anganwadi centres



103                                Annex
KARNATAKA                     Exampl of District Map
Showing Location of Health and Family Welfare Facilities
And Taluk (Block}Concemed
* t
*  I  ~  I    a 
I;zi1    IgS
I ''    IgI 
* :   I     gti
141~~~~~~~~~~~$1  
~~~ ~~~ ! ~~~~~~ ~~~~i I ~ ~ n
2dd~~~~~~~~~~~~                    £   * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
co    ~-                                                        
g~~~~~~c



104                            Annex 6
KARNAIAKA                Ea.mple of TalukIBlo@ Mak
Showing Locadon of PHCs and Villages
r~~~~~    r
~ ; '            V - 4
gl  X    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
{Je-             W
41~~ 4^o    
4480            ,x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
t", K *Vzei     °r
z ~ ~ ~ ~~~*.t.    W<ut 



105                               Anna.E
KARNAAKA                   Example of Villaee Sketch Map
Showing Setected Site for 5Ruih-rntrP Rntiflfina
34~~~
~~~~WM.~~~~~~~~ 
I                       :m&I w  =  
{ ~~~~~n- v                                  JA  Bs    
t  E                               8 _ wa wAn  mm
ue__           =wt9  tt          99||          /~oo



106                               Annex
List of Communities Selected to Reaeiv New Sub-Centre Bu&ld!n=s
In the FTst Year of the Project
Assam, Ralastha and Karataka
Assaml
UST OF SUB-CENTRES TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN THE FIRST YEAR
DISTRBICT                               SUB&gENTRES
1.  KOKRAJHAR                                  1. Besorgaon
2. Daligaon
3. Bhumuragun
4. Gandrabil
2.  NAGOAN                                     5. Khaligaon
6. Lakhar
3.  MORIGAON                                   7. Dalonghat
8. Daliaban
4.  BONGAIGAON                                 9. Gargaon
5.  DARRANG                                   10. Kaliari
11. Kabirchuba
12. Dhupgun
6.  LAKHIMPUR                                 13. Raini Rajgaon
14. Bahadur Chowk
7.  DIBRUGARH                                 15. Lokhrong
16. Hridong
17. Kariajan
18. Linajan
19. Navajyoti
8. SONITPUR                                  20. Separia Chapon
21. Panpur
22. Bhanga Mandir
9. JORHAT                                    23. Pakamura
24. Desoinagar
25. Chenijan
10. KAMRUP                                    26. Tokradia
27. Barbanbai
28. Borka
29. Gargara
11. NALBARI                                   30. Dakoha
31. Barkhana
32. Nizkhana
33. Mugdi
12. BARPETA                                   34. Bhoirasolmara
35. Balbari
36. Kharisola
37. Rampur
38. Bamunkuchi



107                              AMU2
13. SIBSAGAR                                 39 Raidingia
40. Lengibor
41. Longpetia
42 Golapahar
43. Nimanagar
44. Magarahat
14. KARIMGANJ                               45. Chakurmukh
46. Saikuta
47. Saralipur
48. Chinipaton
49. Konkatash
50. Nichintapur
RENOVATION OF SUB-CENTRE IN FIRST YEAR:
KOKRAJHAR DISTRICT                        1. Dholmara
2. Kalipukhurn
3. Shatgaon
4. Jacobpur
5. Daloabari
DHUBRI DISTRICT                       .   6. Silgaon
7. Noon Mati
8. Anujuli
9. Hazirhat



108                                          Annul
Locations for Construction of Sub-Centres
During First Year of Project
Sites in etghty sevenviUllages have been located for the first year programme.
However, additional 29 villages have been identified as standby for the first year and if
not used will be carried over for the second year.
District                   Taluk                     Village                     Site
.___  .__  _Selected
1. BeIlary                1. Siniguppa               1. Konchigeri
2. M.Sugur
3. Buduguppa
4. Balakundi              Yes
I5. Niltur                  Yes
2. Kudligi                 6. Shiwapura              Yes
7. Doopadhahalli
3. Sandur                  S. htetriki
4. Haanahalli              9. Udghaia Doddahandi
______________ _                                     10. Madlagiri 
S. Hospe       .          I 1. Danapura
I  _____________________   ___  I   _   _______________   12. Natalapua
2. Chikmagalur            1. Chikmagalur              1. Chaauagondanahally    Yes
2. Ambale                 Yes
2. Kadur                   3. Nagenahally            Yes
4. Sotanaay               Yes
5. S.INMadapura           Yes
6. Hovareiiallv           Yes
3. Tanikcre                7. Ballavara              Yes
8. Kutncthinamadu         Yes
4. Narasiniharajapura      9. Mtadaburu              Yes
S. Koppa                  10. Kumbarakoppa           Yes
I 1. Gunavanthy            Yes
12. H4osur                 Yes
6. Sringcei               13. Honavalli              Ycs
14. Hcarur                Yes
7. Mudigere               IS. Kogcihara              Yes
16. Shibira                Yes
3. Chitadurga             L CLintdurga               I.                        Yes
Doddasiddam3hanahally      Yes
2. Mallapura
2. Hirivur                 3. Pal3vanahaliv          Yes
3. Hosadurga               4. Allaghatta             Yes
5. Dcvanagere             Yes
4. Mallakalamuru           6. Chikkarahalli          Yes
S. Harihara                7. Bctasanna              Yes
6. Chaltlakere             8. Rangavanahally         Yes
9. Ganiiiunte             Yes
4. Daksin Kannad          1. Mangalore               1. Bajpc                  Yes
2. Pcnnude                Yes
I 3. Natckal                Yes
2. Udupi                   4. Hcjanadi               Yes
S. Tcnta                  Yes



109                                             Ainnex
3. Sunowal                  6. Kodapadavu
I_7 mInniltio<tdtwu
District                    Taluk                       Vilag                      Site
I               .           _                           Sefcctctd
5. Hassan                  1. Hfassan                 1. D=sackoppalu             Ycs
12. BiinitarnahalIv         Yes
2. Arasikere                3. Maralckauc              Yes
I4. faramcager               Yes
______________  3. Chennaravaeatna  5. Obalapura       Yes
_  4. Arakalaszdu             6. RPizarur                Yes
S. Sakalshapura             7. Halcbelur              Yes
6. Belur                    S. Pasadihalli             Yes
7. Alur                  I 9. Br3pura                 Yes
8. Holenarasapura          to. Chima"ahally            Yes
6. Kodagu                  Virajpet                   Kann gala                   Ycs
K _utta 3                    Yes
Hebbele                   I Thotenoor                  Ycs
7. Mandya                  1. Sirangapa=aa             1. Belagola                Yes
2. Ganjam
3. Kirangur               Yes
4. Acchappanakoppalu      Yes
S. Salenahally            Yes
6. Arakere                Yes
7. ?er1ak-ere             Yes
8. Doddapalya             Yes
9. Gamramally             Yes
10. Tadatawwadi            Yes
_    2. Pandavaoura             I 1. iakanahalli            Yes
3. Nagamangata             12. Kaliagnhalli           Yes
13. Chinchahalli           Yes
14. Arni                   Yes
.1. Lakshmipura            Yes
16. Nelligere              Yes
17. Bomrin3aalli           Yes
IS. Agachaha1ti            Yes
19. Ancheecinhanaballi     Yes
20. Doddajucaka            Yes
. ______________________    _______________________    21. Kciacerc                Yes
8. Mysore                  1. Gundulpet                I. Kadsoge                Yes
2. Tcrakanambi            Yes
2. Chamarajanagar           3. Honganur               Yas
4. Racxlnballi            Yes
S. Nagavalli              Yes
6. NaUlur                 Yes
7. Daddafalli             Yes
8. V.Chatra               Yes
3. H.D.Kote                 9. S;iagur                 Yes
I 10. Hamoapura       _      Yes
4. Penapatna               1 1. Btuadapura           Yes
_  12. Rawvandur             Yes
_   S. Kollega!                 1;. H.mur                  Yes
6. T. iNlarsipura        j14. S.,mnatlupura           Yes
6I 13. Ntusuvinalopfu      Y1s   _



110                                       Annex7
District                  J Taluk                     Village                    Site
.    _    __                                           Selected
9. Shimoga                1. Honnali                  1. Kumbalpur              Yes
2. Muktahanhali           Ycs
2. Channageri               3. Hlodalipura
____________________ 4. 8cllaLcre                  -
3. Shimoga                  S. Mandaghatta            Yes
6. Thadasa                Yes
4. Bhadravathi              7. Nimbegundi
5. Shikaripura              8. Haragan
6. Sorab                    9. Jogihalli
10. Hiramagadi
.  _____________________  11. Chzkkababbur
7. Tirthahal'i             12. Ubbur
13. Kukkur
14 iMallimukke
IS. Bctabasavami
t__. ___ _ ____________    16. Mcekari
8. Hosanagar               17. Maverikoppa
_____________________ 18. Nittur
10. Uttar Kannad           1. Kumta                    1. Bank-ikodla            Yes
2. Karwar                   2. Binaga                 Yes
i__    .___ _____           3. Kodara                 Yes
3. Mundagod                 4. Nandigatta             Yes
S Kusura                  Yes



111                              Ann  7
Rajasthan
PROPOSAL OF SUB-CENTRES TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN IST YEAR
I P P - IXTH PROJECT
S.NO.    Name of Sub-        Name of Mother    District    To be constructe
Centre.             P.H.C.                         by NGO/Community
other Agency.DRD
or PWD.
-------------------------------------..------------------------------__---
1.   Devatara         Bhopalgarh       Jodhpur         D.R.D.A.
2.   Siyara            ... do...        .do.              .do.
3.   Kalaoo           Somesar           .do.              .do.
4.   Narsinghnagar    ..do..            ..                .do.
5.   Nosar           Mathania           .do.              .do.
6.  SantodaraKhurd    ..do..            .do.              .do.
7.  Bavrali          Balesar            .do.              .do.
8.  Padia              ..do..           .do                do.
9.  Dantiwada        Banar              .do.              .do.
10  Kokunda          ..do..             .do.              .do.
il  Biyansar        Pilwa               .do.              .do.
12  Kundal            ..do#             .do.              .do.
13  Khidrath        Bap                 .do.              .do.
14  Tekera            do..              .do.              .do.
15  Pal             Selawas             .do.              .do.
16  Dhandhia         ..do.              .do.              .do.
17  Hunganvkalan  Piparshahar           .do.              .do.
18  Beenawas         ..do..             .do.              .do.
19  Neema          Sankhu               CHURU           N.G.O.
20  Jaitpura       ..do..               ..do.             .do.
22  Baijwa.        ..do.                .do.              .do.
22  Bunawas        ..do..               .do.              .do.
23  Adsisar       Pulasar               .do.              .do.
24  Pichkaraital    ..do..              .do.              .do.
25  Bhojasarchota   ..do..              .do.           D.R.D.A.
26  Simsiavidavtan  Padihara            .do.              do.
27  Kanar-             ..do..           .do.               .
28  Gajuwas          Sahava             .do.              .do.
29  Kohira            .do.              .do.              .do.
30  Sahnali          Ratannagar         .do.              .do.
31  Khiwasar           ..do..           .do.              .do.
32  Dhanek           Bigga              .do.              .do.
33  Meerpur         Kalendari          SIROHI          D.R.D.A.
34  Gool             ..do..              .do..            .do.
35  Kivrali         AbuRoad              do..             .do.
36  Surapgala         ..do..           .do.                .
37  Barmana         Revdhar            .do.               .do.
38  Bant            .do.               .do.               do..
39  Chandna         Paldi              .do.               do.
40  Jayela          ..do.*             .do.               do.
41  Jhadoli(H.N.)  Sawroopganj         .do.               .do.
42  Undara(Parli)   ..do.              .do.               .do.



112                              Annex 7
43  Udasar           Nokha            BIKANER             N.G.O.
44  Gondusar          ..do..           ..do..              .do.
45  Sawroopdesar    Napasar            ..do..              .do.
46  Karmwala           .do.            .do.                .do.
47  Diyatara         Kolayat           .do.                .do.
48  Nagrasar          ..do.            .do.                .do.
49  Makdasar          Kaloo            .do.              D.R.D.A#
50  Khokharana         ..do..          .do.                .do.
51  Dhudhia          Rohat             PALI               D.R.D.A.
52  Kalali            .do.             .do.                 .do.
53  Koyalbav         Beda              .do.                 .do.
54  Goriya            .do.             .do.                 .do.
55  Sakarda         Khorva             .do.                 .do.
56  Godawas            .do.            .do.                 .do.
57  Poonadia       Boosi               .do.                 .do.
58  Dharia         .. do               .do.                 .do.
59  Bansia         Piplia              .do.                 .do.
60  Tipawas        ..do.               .do.                 .do.
61  Poonasa       Bhinmal             JALORE              D.R.D.A.
62  Kodidvecha    .do.                 ..do.                ..do..
63  Ratanpur      Badgaon              .do.                 ..do..
64 8hadeep.       ..do..               .do.                 .do.
65  Bamanwada.   ..do..                .do.                 .do.
66  Surawa.       Sanchoor             .do.                 .do.
67  Khejdiyali   ..do.                 .do.                 .do.
68  Jogawa        Ahoor                .do.                 .do.
69  Sugliajodha  ..do..                .do.                 .do.
70  Alana         Sayala               .do.                 .do.
71  Enana         Kheevsar             NAGAUR              N.G.O.
72 Rhatoda        ..do..                ..do.               .do.
73  Seelanvad    Jasvantgarh            ..do.               .do.
74  Tanvra           ..do..             ..do.               .do.
75  Anwaliyasat    Deh                  ..do.               .do.
76  Barnail          .do.                do.                .do.
_  77  Shiv         Kookanwali              .do.                .do.
78  Nalot            .do.               .do.                .do.
79  Kheevtana    Degana                 .do.               D.R.D.A.
80  Sirasana        ..do..               .do.               .do.
81  Arwasar       Basani                .do.                .do.
82  Jokhnia       ..do..                .do.                .do.
83  Medas         Riawadi               .do.                .do.
84  Beejathal    ..do..                  do.                .do.
85  Jajwa         Molasar               .do.                .do.
86  Bedwa         ..do..                .do.                .do.
87  Chandi        Gachipura             .do.                .do.
88  Joosari         ..do..              .do.                .do.
89  Shyampura    Radu                   .do.                .do.
90  Barnail       ..do..                .o.                 .do.
91  Shooriyasani  Nokhachandawta        .do.                .do.
92  Bapa'             ..do..             .do.               .do.



113                               hNI
9~3  R;qdeWnIo      Knronpur .SIItt GANGANA(TAR               r.R.ir
'4  48 G.S;.     * ..edo..                9*d:* .1
99  Sujav*lpuc-   Shtvpur          ... o.d^.
96  t1lyawali        ..edo..              .do.
97  "alltyawlI     Sadu1ehaher             .do.
98  Amerpur..        .o.d.                 .do.                .dc.
99  Pr*mromitr      Polfbongh .hn                              AO
300 HnnowA14           .40..                         '.d.
10 in lljtwq Ia    Raininghnagee         .do.                 At, 
102 Tliodewaln    .. 4..                  .do.                 .do.
103 Anoopaarh       Patroda               .do.                 .de.
104 7 G.D.            .do.                .do.                 .8"..
105 Chaia           Rawatsor              .do.                 Ae.
106 Lhansia          .do.                  do.        .d.
107.Kikanrwali    Sangria                 .do.                 .de.
108 Tanduvwal       .. dc-..              .do.                 .do.
109 .1han2a]       Chenibari              .do.                 .do.
'10 K.unjt            .do.                .do.                 .do.
III 14 I.1%.      Goomarwalt             .do.                .do.
1-12 17 P.R           ..o.. .do.                               .do.
113 Amarsagar       NachanA             JAtSALMER              ..d..
114 11har.WaRn       ..do.*               ..do0.               ..do..
11  I' t@het~        .. do ..             .do...               .. do.
116  iqri ak,I n    Samra               IIARNtR                    .
117 Junapattaaar  . .do..                 ..do.                    . .
'l18 a rads.         Chohtan             .d...
11l ntlanwar          ..do..             ..do..
120 NungeriN         Shiv                ..do..
121 Sundra.          ..do.               .&.d-                ..do..
1I'2 I?Iiljdhl.             do...d ..do
124 Sadeoilm          Slndri             ..do..
125 btillilh,wA       Mandlal            ....
Z 2C. pAtltld} .Id .do. .



114                               AIWex8
Desfrn for Boat C c. Assam
A..eJ
_  1-  i  ' ' 1_1 t- . s ! ! I, - . *             J U-
Lq$%t      ~'I          I          ._____t____i_
i~~~~~i
IC~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a .  e                            a i..
.. . 'I
I.~ ~    ~ ~ ~~a<< S ;s                                             I.Ica
;444(N.s 1o;4¢S
.Q 4TA&iw1r -ro-F1-$s



115                                ex 9
Lit of Vedidles To Be Provided Under the ProJect
IAsm, a            andKarmatkn
ASSAM
Servi  Delivery
(8,599      Bicycles for FHWs and MPWs                              2,000)
(1,978      Mopeds for Health Assts., Health Edcuators and BEEs    18,000)
76      Jeeps for PHCs                                         225,000
61      Ambulnces                                              400,000
3      Boat Clinics                                         4,200,000
*     3       Speed Boats (attached to Boat Clinics)                700,000
*     4       Mobile Clinic Vans                                    300,000
3      Small saloons for SHFWTC and RHTC                      200,000
23 Jeeps,
pool vehices
at DTCs                                                             225,000
Piroject 
*     2       Smal Vans, Project Director and Engineer              200,000
*     7       Jeeps, pool vehicles                                  225,000
JEC
17      Vans for AV purposes                                   400,000
1      Small van for mass communication                       200,000
Vehicles marked * are new. Others are replacement



116                                Annx 9
RAJASTHAN
LIST OF VEHICLES IPP IX PROJECT RAJASTHAN.
S.No.    Name of District         No of vehicles
1.        Barmer                    8
2.        Bikaner                   6
3.        Churu                      1
4.        Ganganagar                10
5.        Jaisalmer                 7
6.        Jalore                   11
7.        Jodhpur                   3
8.        Nagaur                    5
9.        Pali                       1
10.       Sirohi                    3
TOTAL                    55



Lrs? oo' R"PzvL.inaNr T:F vzIrcLES twDom L.P.e. - IX
Typ  of              Cost of Reolacenment          1 o      Page No. in   Division to        District to     Year
rehitc               Vebicle       or tiev*                 the Revision   which the         which the       of pro-
S of Project  vehicle is        vehicle 14       cure-
proposal       required          required         atent
nIZtI 3US     1      450.000 Repltnent         4.50,000        a3       ibalth & family       Uangalor       1994-95
WeLfare 7Tg.2entre
CARS  200.000                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ramnag acau.
CMQ5           4~  200.000                      8,00,000       84 & 86  XnstLtate cf Health   aaq3loare       1994-95
& Wamily Welfare
(2 goo.)
teEP3                                                                  (2. Monceer Xng        angaloce       1994-9S
2     275.000                    5,sO,0O0       84        !nstitute of ifealth
LONG BODIED                                                             & Pamlly Welfare      Bsngalore       1994-95
VANS          20     2S0.000                   70,00.00a       85 .      Under I.E.C. one 1. Bangalore(Urban) 94-95
88.00.XI0                 each to all the   2. banguaIox(Rucal)
20 Districts.     3. TWucku            L3. Ot3i3u
4. Waiar             L4.Blj 4ur
5. Chitraducga       *S.hDbawar
6. Shinz a           16.Uttara imanad,
7. Mysore            t7.Gulgbara
8. 1asdya            18. 8ellary
9. Coor        W~1.Ridar
10. Dakshina Kannada 20-RAitshJ
11. lassan
12. ChLckmaalur
-   -   -   -   -   - - - - -  -  . e   ;-._ .



118                             Annex 10
Communitv^Bad Volunteer Sc
Assam, jastan andKt
1.        Community-based volunteer schemes are important to the Family Welfare program
in India for a number of reasons.
(a)  First, despite the very large workforce of government functionaries, the health
delivery system does not penetrate as deep as would be desrable, particularly if
tribal and other special groups are to be coverd adequately. Community volunteers
aid by extending the reach for some activities.
(b)  Second, community-based systems are particularly useful in supporting behavioral
change efforts targeted at strong resistance points. By coming 'from within"
community based systems are seen as more credible than outsiders attempting to
change age-old beliefs and behavior.
(c)  Third, because of their voluntary nature, these systems - if succesful - are likely
to inject a perspective and a level of motivation which is difficult to replicate in a
large, top-down administrative system.
2.        Because of these advantages, all three states have included specific proposals for
community-based systems in their projects. A brief review of these follows.
Community-Based Link Workers
3.        The state of Assam proposes to put into operation 75,000 Women Health Promoters
(WHPs) during the project penod, where, at present, none eist The scheme will call for each
WHP to focus on 60 households and promote knowledge and behavior in keeping with the
objectives of the program. Each WHP will work under the technical guidance and supervision
of the ANM and her work wil be monitored by the local MSS of which she will become a
member (see below). The performance of the WHPs is to be reviewed annually by the medical
officer of the local PHC, on the basis of the services provided, and cash awards are to be given
to the best performers. WHPs will also be eligible for training as Trained Birth Attendants if
they have the aptitude and interest.
4.        WHPs will be selected by the local medical officer, ANM and MSS. A WHP must
be resident in the locality she is to serve, preferably married or widowed and in the age-range
30-50 years, a volunteer with suitable aptitudes, economically independent with adequate spare
time, not a member of any political party, and at least a class Vm graduate. Her functions will
be to identify aU FW beneficianes in her 60 households, to provide them health and sanitation
education, to inform them of available FW services and how to obtain them, to provide
counselling in cases of iltness etc., to provide treatments for some conditions as diarrhoea and
ARI in children, to act as a depot-holder for basic health and family planning supplies, and to



119                            Amu 10
function as general liaison and assistant for the ANM. She will receive one month's training at
the PHC and sub-entres.
S.        A pilot test of the WHP scheme will first be conducted in each district and evaluated
by an extemal agency. Extension of the scheme will be based on the evaluation.
4.        The state of Karnatak proposes a more elaborate scheme of community linkage
based on a village health committee system. At each sub-entre, a Health Advisory Committee
(HAC) wil be formed by the MO of the PHC. It wi be haired by the MO and composed of
repesentatives from all the villages covered by the sub-centre (selected by the MO and ANM)
plus the PHC LHV and the ANM. At least one woman from each village will be chosen. The
}AC will meet at least a quarter, and will be responsible for drawing up a village-level plan to
achieve project goals under the guidance and assistance of the MO.
S.        The HAC committee will then identify one or more volunteers in each village, at
the rae of one volunter per 1,000 population, who will be willing to act as "link worker
between the village and the sub-centre Their functions will be to motivate for family planning,
provide health and sanitation education in coordination with the ANM, promote the use of
Family Welfare services, and act as depot-holder for stocks of contraceptives. They will be
given targets for ante-natal care registrations and cases, fully-immunised children and users of
family planning spacing methods. Incentive payments will be provided to high-achieving
workers, and they will also retain 20 pement of proceeds from sales of contaceptives. The link
workers will be selected by the PHC MO, and must be literate and preferably female.
6.        The HAC/link worker scheme will be piloted in four PHCs in each district for two
years and then will be evaluated. If successful, it will then be extended to all PHCs.
7.        The state of Rajastan has not developed one single community-based volunteer
scheme. Instead, a number of different approaches will be tried out. These would include the
MSS and CBD schemes described below, NGO initiatives, coordination with ICDS community
paicipation schemes, and Family Welfare prgram-initiated schemes along the lines of those
proposed in Assam and Kamatak. Common elements of these different approaches would
iclude depot-holding of Family Welfare and/or contraceptive supplies, linkage systems with
commuiitites through community groups, liaison duties between communities and FW
workers/facilities, education in healti and family planning, and promotion of use of FW
service'. These approaches will also be piloted before extenson on a wide scale.
M a Swastha Sangb (M)
8.        This scheme, supported primarily by Government of India funds, is an integral part
of the project's IEC strategy in all three states. By seeking to establish village-level women's
groups focused on health and fa ,ily welfare, the scheme aims at overcoming the media
inacoessibility of a large proportion of rual women.



120                             Annex 10
9.        Each group is to consist of 10 to 15 members, including the MPW (Female), who
usually acts as the convenor and secretary, the ICDS worker, if there is one, the TBA and a mix
of women chosen on the basis of their social heterogeneity and the likelihood of their influencing
others. Monthly meetings of the group are expected to provide opportunities for raising
knowledge levels and creating a momentum for dissemination of this knowledge to the
community outside the group. A budget to support startup expenses and refreshments during
meetings is provided.
10.      Experience thus far suggests that this is potentialy a powerful channel for
interpersonal influence, but one that is difficult to sustain. Given the somewhat forced nature
of the group, its dependence on the MFW(F) at the initial stage is high; whether this input and
leadership can be adequately provided along with her other responsibilities is an open question.
There is, however, no doubt that with systematic support (such as, for instance, through radio
listening posts) the MSS can be an extremely effective change agent.
Community-based ditribution systems
11.      The state of Rajasthan has initiated a pilot scheme for community-based distribution
(CBD) of coaceptives. Launched under the labe Jan Magal, the scheme envisges the
recruitment of young couples who, having themselves accepted a contraceptive method, will
agree to promote condoms and oral pills in their community. Further, these couples will hold
stocks and will function as distributors for convenient replenishment and continued usage. Initial
training and periodic supply of IEC matrials will also enable the depot-holders to disseminate
information in a pinpointed manner.
12.      The pilot proposes to compare performance in one district where condoms are
distributed free with another where the depot-holders sell the products. A key issue will be the
regularity with which supplies can be maintained to the village level.



121                              A_s 1
Sun= of lXWininglms anmd 9sgl
Ammsa  Baljasthan and  tk
..   INTRODUCTION
Focus of the Training Compongnt
1.        The training strategies presented in this Annex are drawn from the prect pral
for IPPIX developed by the State Health Departnents. These pwposals have bee discused
with the Government of India to ensure consistency with Government policies and with de
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare's "Action Plan for Revamping the Family WelA
Programme" prepared in early 1992.
2.        In relation to training, the key elements of the "Action Plan" are:
(a)  the need to improve the quality and outreach of services provided the ey family
welfare cadres of doctors, mid-level Supervisors (male and fmakl),
ANMs/MPWs/Health Assistants, and General Nurse Midwives.
0b)  the importance of making effective use of existing training infras , whU
creating or improving infastructure in under-served areas;
(c)  integrating training efforts to reduce redundancy and increase relevance;
(d)  enhancing taining content to include focus on effective service provider inOaon
with clients;
(e) focussing on the strengthening existing health worker performance by improving
supervision;
(f) improving living and working conditions for field workers, such as ANMs.



122                             Annex 11
Description of Training Infrastructure
3.        rhe needs assessments completed by the project States have identified improvement
of MCHIFP services as a health system priority. Each State has formulated a strategy for
improving quality of services that includes strengthening of in-service and basic training
programmes. The States' strategy for strengthening in-service training programmes, emphasizes
the development of a sustainable programme to provide technically appropriate, performance-
based training for MCH/FP cadre. In order to achieve their objective, the States plan to augment
the existing in-service training facility, the HFWTC, with an apex training institute, the State
Institute for Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW) and to establish District Training Centres
(DTC). The Project States will also improve programmes offered by ANM/GNM and LHV
schools.
4.        The following is an overview of the existing and proposed training infrastructure
support by the IPP9 Project.
5.        A State Institute of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW/IHFW) will be established
in,esch Project State as the apex in-service training body. The SIHFW will streng aen the in-
sern .ce training programme for all categories of health care providers through direct training of
selected cadre and by providing technical support for other state training centres and their
faculty. The SIHFW will conduct continuous and specialized in-service training for state,
4istrict and block medical officers; conduct training for trainers and faculty of training centres
and basic training schools; carry out evaluation and research on training effectiveness; provide
technical assistance to lower level training centres; coordinate information gathering and
planning for in-service training and prepare in-service training materials/modules.
6.        The Health and Family Welfare Training Centres (HFWTC) conduct both in-service
and pre-service training for health system personnel and are under the direct supervision of the
Department of Health and Family Welfare in each Project State. The HFWTC provides in-
service training for supervisory workers including medical officers, male and female multi-
purpose workers. In addition the HFWTC conducts basic training for male workers including
multi-purpose workers, block health educators and health inspectors. Under the project the
HFWTC facilities will be improved and their faculty will be offered further training.
7.        District Training Centres will be developed ir, each of the project states. District
training teams will be appointed and trained to conduct induction and in-service training for male
and female paramedical workers.
8.       In each participating State, basic training for ANM/GNMs and promotional training
for LHVs is conducted at dedicated facilities.



123                              &na3.It
B. STRATEGIES
Developing Training Infrastructure
Organization of the Training System
9.        At present, there is no system for regular in-service training, particularly for
paramedical workers and their supervisors. Training efforts tend to be short-lived and projct-
based, with little attention paid to creating a lasting institutional capacity. In addition, curent
in-service training activities tend to be uncoordinated and at times duplicative, resulting in some
workers receiving multiple trainings in the same topic whilst others are overlooked. Generally,
both staff and facilities of the basic schools have been neglected.
10.       The project aims to promote more effective and efficient use of available trining
resources by:
(a)  developing an institutional structure for in-service training, with a State bnitute of
Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW) as the apex training institution, supported by
Health and Family Welfare Training Centres (HFWTCs); District Training Centres
(DTCs); practical experience centres such as Field Practice Demonstration Aras
(FPDAs), Rural Health Training Centres (RXICs), and Filst Referral Units
(FRUs);
0)  clearly defining the roles of the various components of the in-service  aning
structure and the relationships among them;
(c)  supporting the integration of different in-service training programmes currety
being implemetited through CSSM, ICDS, IPP, and other donor-supported efforts.
In particular, the project will support efforts to integrate the various curricula and
materials currently in use by different training programmes and will strenghen
district level inputs to planning, implementation and evaluation of training inputs.
(d) promoting better coordination between basic and in-service training in Rajaslhan
through the addition of in-service training for MPW (Q/F) at the ANM basi
training schools.
(e)  providing a planning framework for determining basic training needs and supporqt
the upgrading of both facilities and faculty.



124                                 Annex 11
11.        Although there are significant differences across the three states in both the need for
and the availability of basic and in-service training facilities, all states require upgrading and
rationalization of their training facilities and a programme of regular, need based in-service
training which reaches the district level.
12.        The project is supporting each state in different ways to develop training capacity
in direct relation to its training needs by:
(a)  providing sufficient and appropriately designed facilities (both teaching and
accommodation) to operationalize the training structure, meet projected basic and
in-service training needs and improve training approaches.
(b) providing necessary furniture, equipment, libraries and vehicles to support training
activities.
(c)  supporting in-service training activities for doctors, trainers, supervisors and basic
health workers.
Imroving Training Quality
13.        The quality of India's paramedical training programmes continues to be a problem.
Contributory factors to this situation include; the low status accorded to training and trainers,
lack of attention to the relevance of basic training curricula, lack of field evaluation of training
effect, inadequate attention to the professional development of faculty for in-service and basic
training schools; a focus on theoretical classroom based training rather than the development of
prtc  skills.
14.        The Project will address these problems by:
(a)  improving the sldlls and knowledge of faculty of both basic and in-service training
schools/centres;
(b) supplementing existing training curricula and teaching/learaing materials, with
particular attention to broader contraceptive mix, supervision and problem solving,
management, service provider - client interactions and clinical skills;.
(c)   maldng training more effective by strengthening the ability of trainers to use
participative and practical training methods;
(d)  supporting field-based training through the development of field pcice facilities,



125                                 Annex 11
vehicles for student trainer mobility and training clinical supervisors;
(e)   promoting the relevance of training to service delivery needs by:
(i) decentralizing to districts the responsibility and authority for determining in-
service training needs and, where appropriate, providing training;
(ii) promoting on-the-job training of field workers by their supervisors;
(iii) providing supervisory tools for performance assessment;
(iv) increasing the regularity of training;
(v) supporting clinical refresher training for FRU staff and other field
supervisors.
(f)  improving the quantity, quality and variety of teaching and learning materials
through provision of libraries at training schools/centres; developing and distibuting
student-held learning/reference materials; training of faculty in different teaching
methodologies (including use of teaching cases, problem-solving exercises, role
plays, etc.)
(g)  supporting the development of a field based performance evaluation system for
assessing the effects of training on service delivery.
Improving the Status of In-Service Training
15.        Poor perception of in-service training for paramedical workers both by faculty and
health workers has affected the quality of in-seriice training efforts. The lack of a clearly
articulated training policy, inattention to the need for highly qualified faculty, lack of career
development prospects and recognition for trainers and absence of any connection between the
development of new skills and promotional opportunities for health workers have had a negative
effect on the perceived value of in-service training.
16.        The Project will address these problems by:
(a)   promoting commitment to tining through the development of State policies
addressing issues such as
(i) the frequency of in-service training;
(ii) the initial selection and continuing development of trainers;
(iii) career structure for training staff;
(iv) linking training to career development for health workers;
(v) encouraging closer links between trainers and service performance through
trainee follow-up and supervisor-faculty coordination;
(vi) training service managers and supervisors to provide on-the-job training as an
integral part of their supervisory responsibilities.



126                             Annex 11
O) encouraging service providers to attend in-service training by ensuring that:
(vii) they are reimbursed promptly for travel and per diem expenses;
(viii) faculty are adequate in number and appropriately trained;
(Qx) training be seen to be of practical value to job performance;
(x) the acquisition of skills is positively recognized by service supervisors.
Sf_imng Tining ManWm=
17.      Ile development of systematic approaches to training in the states. will require
a able attention to management of the training system. To date little attention has been
gien to planning, monitoring, financing and coordinating state training programmes which has
contributd to makdng training unresponsive to service needs, isolated from field realities and
.  tffllet.
18.       The Project will address these issues by:
(a)  creating the capacity at the State level (through the establishment of HMD Cells or
through the SIHEW), to develop integrated service delivery and training plans so
that sufficient numbers of appropriately trained health workers are produced and
effectively deployed;
(b)  developing and implementing human resource information systems (both
computerized and manual) to support manpower planning, training and personnel
manalgement;
(c) developing capability to prepare integrated plans and budgets for in-service training
to be carried out through the training structure.
(d)  promotng increased financial discretion of the in-charge at the in-service training
centres such that each centre receives, on a pre-determined schedule, the financial
resources required to implement the approved training activities;
(e) supporting the development of an SIHFW as the apex training institute in each State
with gradually incresing technical and specified management responsibilities for
oordiating in-service training carried out by the network of in-service training
hnstutions within the State.



127                          k,lU
INDIA- NITH POPULATION PROJECT- ASSAM, KARNATAKA AND RAJASTHAN
TRANNG PROGRAMME OUTPUTS-KARATAKA 14-*OO
CAlEGORY OF CADRE                         TION  |ANM  GNM           L    TT
SIHFW  HFWrC  OTC    PHC  SCH  SCH  HFWrC SCH
.-                             -       -      -     -    -I -
Hsl& Aut FwIANM                    19274           426                     230
Huli A.ut Male                    10184                       32n         13413
Sr.H    Aset FAUiV             438                                   No20   2goo
Gwla Nurse                                               6an                 a
Sr. Hull IMpoOlAr             2442                              512         2954
Blok H .Ih EdcO.cw            153                                           150
TImhing F-aciull        308                                                 3we
Akmgd CaIOfcw,         1610   760                                           9172
TMhg^ 9500
TB                                          m                t"e w
A    _~nwad Woukr                          7748                            77430
Mblndi Memb                               10994                           1094
Vakxnuy Worker                             A  mon
ohodTach                                  103                             10
TOAL                   1916 I1             475104    2  165M  3741   5M



~~  I
I~~i   - -
g i  ---  -         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
'a     R;        
Ii      o        
U       i    
'I           -0--         - 
g g §N -~~~
I                 I 2    -        
X   xL    ,,11    ,       =~~~~



129                       Annex 1l
INDIA-NINTH POPULATION PROJECT- ASSM, KARNATAKA AND RAJASTHAN
TRAINING PROGRAMME OUI`PUTS- RAJASTHAN 1994-2000
IN-SERVICE  --=       PRE- R
CATEGORY OF CADRE                         SECT.                   TOTAL
SIHFW HFWTC  DTC PHC       SIHSN HPvFTC
MPW(M/F)                             21960                         21900
Sector Supendssrs (M/F)         2130                                2130
SMO/mO                     a0o  6oo                  66     6a0    2520
CHMOIDy CHMO               300                                       300
sum OffcI                  114                                       114
Training Faeiiy           230  280                   75             535
ralnlng Equip. Op     Xrs   90                                        go
Jont Trg. ANMw AWW                         45915                  415
ITOTAL                    _1334 |29   21960 458915    735             5641



130                              Annx 12
Summar of SStgi
For Imnrovng Famiy Welfare Promm  Lotics
In Assam and Raastha
STATE OF ASSAM
1.        Logistics here are taken to cover all essential support system elements which have
a direct or indirect impact on health and Family Welfare service delivery, including:
(a) procurement and storage of materials for service providers and patients/acceptors
i.e. drugs, equipment, diagnostic tools, family planning materials (contrptives
and kits) and supplementary items such as IEC materials, MIS materials and
stationery for record management
(b) mobility of staff and m3intenance of vehicles, biomedical equipment and buildings
(c)  budgets, financial flows *nd fiscal discipline
(d) information flows and functional overlaps which duplicate logistics efforts
All these elements are time- and budget-sensitive.
Current Status of FW Prom    Litics
Drugs and Medical Supplies:
2.        Since Independence, the Assam Government has given no serious thought to
developnmg a sound health and Family Planning logistics system, nor made any major
investments in developing a basic infrastructure.
3.        Though service delivery has expanded considerably and pressure has furter
increased to meet greater primary health care needs, only a very primitive
centralized/decentalized drugs and medical supplies system continues to function. This system
was inherited by the state when it decided on an independent procurement system instead of
relying on supplies from central Government medical stores.
4.        The absence of a strong and unified logistics system has resulted in adhoc systems
for special programs. These programs, often donor driven, have generated up to 7 or 8 mini-
and micro-logistics systems within MOHFW, which all function independently, often sub-
optimally and inefficiently. Thus scarce financial resources and limited trained manpower are
frittered away.



131                              Annex 12
5.        Such multiple systems are not only costly but also cause a lot oi -onfusion at the
periphery. Each beams separately to districts, CHCs and PHCs, with the result tha the limited
staff at those facilities are perpeually receiving and accounting for stocks for different programs.
Even in the CMHO's office, separate stores operate for family planning and health supplies
despite their both being directly accountable to him.
6.        Storage space is inadequate throughout the system. There is no central store at
Guwahati for buffer and emergency stocks. Most stores in the districts, and even the central
family planning store at Guwahati also, operate from rented buildings which are totally
unsuitable for assuring security and safety of stocks. These stores are generlly cramped, dark
and dingy, unhygienic, poorly lit and lack appropriate ventilation and basic facilities like fire
fighting equipment. Housekeeping is extremely poor and infestation is common. Government-
owned storage facilities exist at medical college hospitals, but these too need renovation, better
ventilation and lighting, security systems and storage and fire fighting equipment. Most stores
on rented premises are frequently relocated, t!hus causing periodic dislocation.
7.        Inventory control and management is very weak. No bin cards are maintained, nor
is there any stock tally system in opaion. Shelf expiry is rarely monitored, nor is there any
tracking system to identify and transfer excess stocks in the system. The staff are not aware of
basic storage requirements, which results in losses due to expiry, deterioration and degradation.
Physical inventorisation is seldom done, and non-technical audit teams pay scant attention to this
topic.
8.        Manpower is grossly inadequate. Most stores either have part-time staff only or are
managed by medical officers assisd by dressers and dispensers, who have either no interest or
no knowledge of drug management. These persons could be better utilized elsewhere.
9.        The distribution system is too adhoc and erratic. As a result, peripheral facilities are
invariably short of essential drugs and contracwtives.
10.       The Directorate of Health Services does not have a proper procurement unit with
trained staff. This work is assigned to an accounts officer who functions as a secretary to the
purchase board. Procurement is purely adhoc, based on guesstimates of needs and often budget-
driven. No data are available on past drug consumption or on drug needs as estimated from
analysis of morbidity patterns, due to the absence of an adequate information flow system. The
lack of an essential drug list further complicates procurement. the procurement process is
centralized, but purchases are decentralized. The bulk of procurement is reserved for small-
scale and cottage drug industries in the state, with preferential prices for their products being
fixed by the Ministry of Industry and only circulated by MOH. For the balance of procurement,
offers are invited from various manfacture and a sort of rate contract is entered into with
selected firms; then a list of such approved items with prices is circulated to CMHO's for direct
procurement by them. No open tenders are invited and thus no economies of scale can be
exploited. Decentralized procurement without proper controls gives a free hand to CMHOs,



132                              Annex 12
who can buy any type of drugs they choose. In fact, they mostly purchase tertiary and expensive
drugs, or suspect multi-drug combination products which are discouraged worldwide for good
scientific reasons.
11.       Training capacity for pharmacists and pharmacy technicians is inadequate, and most
trained persons find employment in tea gardens or in the private sector. Training facilities are
poorly staffed, and their equipment and the quality of their training need upgrading. In addition,
the Assam Government has taken no action to fill 1135 posts for junior pharmacists, who should
be posted at PHCs and other facilities.
12.       Contraceptive supplies need a special mention. There are frequent breakdowns of
the contraceptive supply chain, due either to poor planning, or lack of funds for transportation
or the failure of the Centre to maintain a regular supply flow. There is clear failure of forward
planning at the state level, which maintains no buffer or pipe-line stocks, as well as of provision
of resources at the Centre (MOHFW) level. No monitoring system exists. Allocations and
supplies are linked to targets, so that better-performing districts are more prone to stockouts and
disruption of supplies. In the family planning field, such failures will negate all the gains made
through painstaking efforts over many years.
13.       Pre-inspection of drug supplies, quality control and quality assurance support are
all very weak. Drugs are not tested for quality either at the time of procurement or during
storage. The state quality-control laboratory is poorly equipped and staffed, with not even
sufficient funds to buy reagent chemicals and reference standards. Yet quality testing is
particularly important if a major proportion of drug procurement is from protected cottage and
small-scale drug industries.
14.       The health budget has not been increasing in real terms. Salary bills have been
rising at the cost of the drug budget, the next major category of expenditure. This limited drug
budget, coupled with poor fiscal management and absolute fiscal indiscipline at district level,
has resulted in a state of chaos; districts are over-spending and even committing the next year's
budget in advance, in order to maintain supplies. The current drug budget of Rs. 120 million
(12 crores) works out to just 10 cents per capita, which is far below the WHO- suggested
minimum of 50 cents per capita. In addition, budget shortages a^e further complicated by a
system of fund-release under which even the approved budget is not released on time or in full.
This causes further damage to drug supplies and hence to Family Welfare services.
15.       Field supervision and monitoring is weak, due to inadequate budgets for travel
expenses and weak transport support systems. Fifteen percent of the total transport fleet of 724
vehicles are either condemned or under condemnation, while another 50 percent (about 300) are
grounded at the Directorate's transport workshops awaiting repairs for periods ranging from 3
months to 3 years. Senior-level facilities tend to hijack vehicles from lower-level facilities such
as PHCs, and vehicle use is not systematically organized for optimal efficiency. Maintenance
facilities are poor, with no equipment, spares or budgets to carry out timely repairs. Repair



133                             Annx 12
costs at Government-owned workshops are also far in excess of those at private sector
workshops.
Strategy for Improvement
16.       Consolidate all procurement and supply functions under strong central control and
direction, and merge all mini- and micro- logistics systems into one unified distribution and
supply system.
17.      Institutionalize procurement and distribution functions in the Health and Family
Welfare Directorate by creating a separate procurement and supply unit under an experienced
and qualified technical specialist who has knowledge of, and experience in, drug management.
18.       Build a modern streamlined warehousing and supply chain from centre to districts
with appropriate storage, material handling and data processing equipment (for information flow
and information management).
19.       Develop an essential drug list which is based on the state's morbidity profile and is
clearly segmented for primary, secondary and tertary level of health care, in accordance with
the type of workload and skill level of service providers. Procurement should be
limited to this list and carried out through open tendering, with an organized pre-inspection
system and quality control and quality assurance back-up.
20.       The SHTO (State Health Transport Organization) should be phased out gradually,
and repair and maintenance of vehicles transferred to the well-developed private sector. For bio-
medical equipment, greater reliance should be put on long-term service contract and periodic
preventive maintenance (PPM). In the interim, a few workshops should be funiished to
undertake speiaized assembly-line operations such as servicing, lathe work etc., in which the
private sector is currently weak. Surplus technical and skilled staff should be deployed for
preventive maintenance of vehicles and equipment.
21.       Future replacements of vehicles should be limited to a core set of staff and functions
(vehicles for project management, very senior staff etc., plus ambulances). For routine field
supervision, a phased change-over to the use of hired vehicles on a need basis should be tried
out.
22.       The fund-release system needs to be rationalized so that funds are available to
operational entities on a quarterly basis. Strict mandatory instructions/guidelines should be
issued to ensure that districts do not overspend or divert funds.
Contribution of the Project to the Strategy
23.       The project will finance construction of warehouses at headquarters and district



134                             Annex1
level, storage and material handling equipment for new stores, and provision of data proCessing
equipment for computerized inventory control and informa-don flow.
24.       In addition, the project will finance selective upgrading of transport workshops for
specalized functions, including funding of appropriate tools and equipment.
25.       The project will also provide funds for innovative schemes to test the concept of
using hired vehicles for field supervision in two districts, and to finance training of staff locally
and abroad in drug management and quality control, plus required local technical assistance for
inventory management.
STAT  OF RAJA4STHAN
26.       Logistics here are taken to cover all essental support system elements which have
a direct or indirect impact on health and Pamily Welfare service delivery, including:
(a) procurement and storage of materials for service providers and patients/acceptors
i.e. drugs, equipment, diagnostic tools, family planning materials (contraceptives
and kits) and supplementary items such as IEC materials, MIS marWials and
stationery for record management
b)  mobility of staff and maintenance of vehicles, biomedical equipment and buildings
(c) budgets, financial flows and fiscal discipline
(d) information flows and functional overlaps which duplicate logistics efforts
All these elements are time- and budget-sensitive.
Current Staus of IN  PorM   L&sI
A.     rement, S=0 and Distnbution (S;ly System
27.       The state has so far paid scant attention to developing an organized supply system
with proper warehouses or storage facilities at various levels. Most offices are rented with
inadequate space for storage. Even at headquarters, stores are located in rented houses situated
in different parts of the city. These places are not secure, and have no storage and fire-fighting
equipment. Their lighting and air circulation are inadequate. In most districts, the drugs and
contraceptives lie in verandas, exposed to the elements.
28.       An ineffective central prourement and supply system was recently replaced by a
decentralized system, as a result of persistent (and often self-interested) complaints by CMHOs
and SMOs. Due to the absence of proper controls, this decentralized system has failed to



135                             AnRM 12
deliver. In fact, a centralized non-system has been replaced by a decentralized non-system. Its
failure to repond to the needs of various programs has been the reason for the emergence of
various mini- and micro- supply systems, each working independently of the others, often sub-
optimally, and at high cost.
29.       Drug procument is mainly adhoc and budget-diven, rather than based on patient
flow and analysis of morbidity patterns. There is a catalogue of drugs which is reviewed before
evy two-year p     nt cycle. It contains more tetary-level than basic drugs, and is not
segmented into group of drugs for use at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of health care.
Against accepted interational norms, this catalogue currently includes a number of combination
drugs and brand products which limit competitin in tendering. However, the Department of
Health Services has stated that as of the cunrent tendering cycle, most iational combinations
and branded itens will be deleted from the catlogue.
30.       Two sepate tenders are issued for the public sector and the private sector. Tenders
only list the names of drugs and do not give estimated requirements; therefore they do not elicit
prices that benefit from economies of scale. Rate contracts are issued sepaty for the publc
sector and the private sector with separate prices. These rate contract are circulated to officers
in response to their direct demand, for direct purchases. Due to weak monitoring and loose
technical specificatons, it often occurs that expensive tertary-level drugs are purchased with a
limited shelf life, and supplied to sub-centers and PHCs, while essential drugs are in short
supply. Often also, the supplier tends to avoid supplying common and low-value drugs with
smaller profit mwgins. Due to frequent shortages, most patients (more than 80 percent) are
directed to fill their   ptions at private pharmacies.
31.       There is no system in place of inspecdon or quality-check at procurement.
Apparently a sample of the drug is obtained at contract-signing for reference, a procedure which
has no relevance except for visual inspection since the actual supply will be from different
batches. Decentralized purchasing authorities have very little notion of what quality-checks
should be, as most procurement is handled by untained store clerks. Though notionally, drug
insors are supposed to draw samples from stocks at health facilites, in practice this haWem
infrequently. Drugs are distributed and paid for, and even consumed, before quality-test results
are in. The currnt drug-tesng lboty is inadequately staffed and equipped to provide
adequate qualit-control support; hence test reports are often available only after a delay of six
months or more, as against a standard time of 15-30 days. Even if a drug is found to be sub-
standard, no action is taken since the drugs in question have already been consumed. Thus this
limited quality-control effort becomes an exercie in futility; indeed there is no case on record
of a drug recall or replacement following an -dverse test report
32.      Inventory management and control is weak No bin cards are used and records are
poorly maintained. Physical inventoaion for stock reconcwtation is seldom done and shelf
expiry is rarely monitored. Housekeeping is rather poor, nence infestation is common and drug
labels are often eaten away. IEC materials and staionery are even bigger victims of termites



136                             Annex 12
and other infestations. Though the IEC Bureau has a good store at headquarters, accounting and
storage are poor at the periphery. This results in an in-house loss rate of 40-50 percent of
materials even before distribution further down the line. Even at central stores for family
planning supplies and special program drugs etc., the situation is no different. These central
stores are managed by remote control, since all store-keepers and store staff are stationed at the
Health Directrate which is miles away from the stores. There is no organized monitoring of
shelf-life, and hence losses due to shelf-expiry are common.
33.       The distribution polies currently in effect require quarterly supplies to peripheral
institutions. In practice, however, distribution is erratic. Often it is on a push system whereby
supplies are channelled further down the line as and when they are received, because most stores
do not have adequate holding capacity. Often the distribution of state- fimded drugs coincides
with end-of-year rsh purchases of whatever is available, rather than what is essential.
Frequently, subcenters are out of stock of drugs for a year, and then suddenly receive stock
equivalent to one-and-a-half to two years of budget allocation. The only silver lining is that
economical private-sector transport services are used for distribution, rather than public-sector
vehicles.
34.       The availability of contraceptives is dependent on central government allocation and
supply, which is often erratic. No reserve stocks are in the pipeline and such additional stocks
are seldom allocated by center, thus a month's delay can be disastrous. In the last three to four
years, there have been periods of non-availability ranging from three to nine months; these have
decimated the gains attained through hard work by the state government and its field workers,
besides destroying the confidence of family p=nning acceptors in the Government's capacity to
deliver.
35.       Procurement of equipment is even more chaotic than for drugs, though similar rate
contracts for two years are issued for equipment. No information is available on what
equipment is currently lying at various facilities, nor has any inventorisation exercise been
carried out. Standardiztion of equipment by bed capacity and by specialty has not been
attempted, nor have any replacement norms been standardized. The peripheral institutions are
seldom consulted about their needs, and often rate conats do not include critically required
equipment. Most sophisticated equipment is sanctioned as a response to lobbying efforu or
contacts, rather than on a basis of rational analysis of needs.
36.       At most facilities there is an urgent need to replace hospital beds, mattrsses etc.
However, due to the absence of replacement norms, no replaement policy has been formulated.
Current budget allocations are inadequate; moreover they are mainly used for furnishing new
facilities, with very little funding devoted to replacement of worn-out hospital beds and furniture.
37.       Current systems of disaster management and emergency relief need strenging.
The present practice of initiating procurement only when an emergency strikes often deays
timely succor to suffering communities.



137                             AnnmLi
B. Mobility of Staff
38.       Over the last two decades, a fleet of Health Directorate vehicles has been assembled
through contributions from donors, centrally-assisted projects and the state's own purchase
But no count is available of the total fleet of vehicles, plus details on their location, distribution,
age, functional status etc. Clear-cut allotment norms have not been spelled out, nor is any effort
made to pool vehicles for joint field supervision and monitoring.
39.       Most of the vehicles operating in the field are over five years old and have done
about 100,000 kms. Thus they would in any case need phasing out soon. In fact, these old
vehicles are frequently in and out of workshops, and probably spend more time in the workshop
than in the field. The cost of repairing these aged vehicles is also rather high, and often un-
economical. An adhoc census of vehicles carried out at district level between 1989 and 1993
brings into focus the urgent need to develop a long-term game plan to replace elderly vehicles,
in order to prevent field supervision breaking down. As per this census, 27 percent of aU
vehicles in the fleet are off the road (out of service), only 18 percent are less than five years old,
and the balance of 55 percent is between five and fifteen years old. Most vehicles are living on
borrowed time, yet if they were all to be taken off in one fell swoop, the entire Health and
Family Planning Directorate would come to a screeching halt.
40.      lTe above census figures are patchy, since Departments such as those for Malaria
and other special programs (UIP, TB etc) maintain their own records and have their own central
coordination mechanism to keep track of vehicles and their functional status. A one-time, state-
wide census of vehicles belonging to all departments will be needed in order to identify model,
nake, age, functional status and deployment. This would crystallize the picture of vehicle
status, including the numbers and location of those requiring immediate replacement and those
which will be out of commission over the next two to three years.
41.       Though standard replacement norms exist, replacement policies are ambiguous. The
present procedure for condemnation and disposal is too convoluted and long-drawn-out. Often
the process takes anything from six months to three years before permission is received for
disposal. Meanwhile, vehicles often lie at insecure places; hence some have parts canmbaized
or stolen, and others are further damaged by the elements. As a result, their final auction may
hardly realize their scrap value. A few scores of vehicles have been lying thus all over the state
for the past several years, because the condemnation process has not been initiated for want of
relevant documents such as registration etc.
42.       The SHTO (State Health Transport Organisation) which was set up in the 1960s with
UNICEF assistance is now hardly operating. The Jaipur workshop services the Family Welfne
Unit while the Malaria Department maintains separate workshops at Jaipur and Ajmer. Ihe
SHTO Jaipur workshop has no budget to buy spares; instead these are purchased for each vehicle
upon fund-release from the user Department. SHTO does carry a large inventory of spare for
old UNICEF-supplied vehicles, but these have not been issued for any repairs since the mid-



138                             Annx 12
1970s. The total output of major and minor repairs from SHTO has only been for 136 vehicles,
and has been mostly confined to repeat repairs of ministry and directorate vehicles. In the
process, vehicles end up grounded for weeks or months. There appears to be a nexus between
state garage staff, drivers and specific private sector workshops. No system of job certification
and quality control is in place to verify whether work has been done and spares replaced.
Periodic servicing, which is the key to longevity of vehicles, is often neglected by drivers.
Annual staff costs at the SHTO Jaipur workshop amount to Rs. 4.1 lakhs per year, so the fixed
cost per vehicle repaired works out to Rs. 3,000 per vehicle. At a private workshop, minor
repairs could be carried out at less than this figure, including labour and parts.
43.       For repairs to biomedical equipment, neither SHTO nor the private sector has
adequate facilities, the only exception being cold chain maintenance, set up as a vertical system
under funding from UNICEF. Not even a count of all equipment and the functional status of
each piece is unavailable, nor is periodic preventive maintenance (PPM) ever carried out. It is
only recently, and upon interventions by the State Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, that
service contracts have been included as a part of procurement contracts, a practice which was
non-existent before. The general trend has been to use equipment, junk it on breakdown, and
then clamor for more. Even circuit diagrams and repair manuals are seldom available. No in-
house maintenance facilities are available at most hospitals, even for PPM or minor repairs, and
SHTO is not equipped to undertake the job. Nc assessment of private-sector capability in this
area has been attempted. Mostly equipment is literally junked when it breaks down.
C. Budget. Financial Flow and Fiscal Discipline
44.       The operational budget is generally inadequate to provide relevant services on a
consistent basis, especially for drugs, equipment and supplies. The present state drug budget
of Rs. 90 million works out to Rs. 2.0 per capita, which is not sufficient even for treatment of
a single episode of illness. Hence the perpetual shortages. The recent hike in the travel
allowance without adequate budgetary support has had an adverse impact on field supervision.
Officers often must self-finance field travel and wait for reimbursements from subsequent fund
releases. Similarly, the equipment budget is also inadequate.
45.       The current system of financial flows, which is heavily weighted towards end-of-
year releases, needs to be. changed. It often results in the concentration of activities and of
procurement in March. This not only affecs quality control and rational procurement, but also
results in cyclical periods of plenty and drought.
46.       Fiscal discipline in the system is weak. Often CMHOs and other direct-demanding
officers commit next year's budget in advance for procurement of supplies. This is very much
in evidence for drug procurement. In spite of very limited budgets, expensive non-esse,1dal
drugs are often purchased instead of commonly-used essential drugs, resulting in perpetual
shortages and thus advance purchase of similar items again. A classic example of fiscal
indiscipline is the expenditure for Rs. 470 million for family planning during 1991-1992, against



139                              Annx1
central funding assistance of Rs. 360 million. The state had to recoup this gap during the year
by a special fund-release. Diversion of funds between activities is also very common.
D. Information Flows
47.       The present information flow system is weak and cumbersome, and compliance is
poor. Thus no data on morbidity or mortality are available even for assessment of drug
requirements and allocation of resources. For drugs and medical supplies, no report system is
in place to determine the status of stocks, any shelf-expiry problems, or current consumption
patterns as a guide to planning of future procurement and distribution. Apparently an MIS
system is being set up under UNPFA funding. An added system for drugs and family planning
supplies is needed, in order to strengthen the infornation and planning base.
St¢te  for Improvement
Rationalisation of Drug Procurement
48.       A basic analysis of drug needs should be undertaken, covering the 20 to 30 most
commonly encountered conditions at subcenters, PHCs and CHCs and rural hospitals. A list of
the 50 most commonly used drugs should be drawn up, and procurement should be limited to
these 50 items. For other drugs, the patient should buy drugs from the private market. To
arrive at this list, a committee should be set up comprising a pharmacologist (preferably a
cLinical pharmacologist), a community medicine expert, an epidemiologist, a district-level
clinician and a pharmacist. A separate committee of specialists could draw up another List of
drugs for medical colleges and other tertiary hospitals, which have a different epidemiological
profile.
49.       To obtain economies of scale, procurement should be centalized, but with
decentralized deliveries up to a certain level. This will ensure purchase of the right drugs and
curb present indiscretions.
50.       A separate procurement and supply unit should be set up in the Health Directate.
It should be headed by an experienced technical specialist with experience in drug ma t,
and should be staffed with smtably qualified specialists in procurement planning and contracting,
distrbution, warehousing management and quality assurance.
51.       A unified logistic system should be set up which merges all the existing mini- and
micro- systems into a single integrated unit. This will optimize available manpower and
financial resources. The unit should respond to allocations from different special programs and
make peiodic drug deliveries; this would save on costs and unproductive pressures on lmited
manpower at the periphery, who at present have to respond to uncoordinated supplies from
umpteen sources. Integration will also help streamline information flows and inventory
management.



140                             Ann 12
52.       Technical specifications and evaluation criteria should be streamlined. Procurement
should be limited to generic drugs from primary manufacturers or their authorized agents with
a proven record of quality and of meeting WHO GMP guidelines. The World Bank has recenty
developed standard bidding documents for use by borrowers for Bank-funded drug procurement.
This outlines all special requirements for drug procurement and will be shared with the State on
request.
53.       A system of inspection and quality-check, before supply, should be installed. This
will be easier with centralized procurement. Random samples from batches offered for supply
should be drawn and tested, and the supplies kept on hold till the test results are in. To
strengthen this quality inspection, the drug-testing laboratory should be upgraded, thrugh
provsion of adequate equipment and addition of enough extra staff to improve response-time and
to provide adequate quality back-up for both qualitative and quantitative analysis. Adequate
qualit) w4ntrol is all the more important because of the recent quantum jump in the volume of
spurious and sub-standard drugs circulating in commerce.
54.       Adequate warehousing and storage capacity has to be established. As a start,
modemn warehouses should be set up at Jaipur and thirty district headquarters at once, with
additional warehouses at sub-district or CHC level to follow in a second phase. These stores
should be equipped with proper storage and material-handling facilities, plus data processing
equipment, security systems etc. These district warehouses should be the focal points for
quarterly distribution to the periphery. Since the volume of distribution from each district will
be reasonable, contracts can be entered into with private transporters for cyclical deliveries.
55.       Warehousing capacity estimates are based on the current contraceptive method mix
(with the addition of 5 percent annual increase in the CPR), drugs, CSSM supplies, Idts,
sationery, IEC materials, equipment and junk-room for housing redundant equipment, expired
drugs etc. which are awaiting condemnation processing and disposal. Provision has also been
made for reserve and emergency stocks and an increase in use of contrceptives due to shifts in
the family planing method mix from terminal methods to spacing methods.
56.       For contraceptives and other family planning supplies, a plan should be prepared to
establish adequate stocks which would take into account current reserve stocks, wastage and
pipeline absorption. The Center should then be requested to provide supplies for one year as per
this plan, and subsequently to provide annual regular supplies as per annual targets.
EquipmetMangement
57.       The first step here is to make an inventory of existing equipment at all facility
levels, in order to identify what is functional, what is broken down but can be repaired at
marginal cost and restored to use, and what is broken down but cannot be repaired due to any
reason. The latter should be written off. This work should be entrusted either to consultants
or to special teams set up for each zone, and should be completed within six months.



141                              Annex 12
58.       A core group should be set up to prepare a standard equipment list for 100-, 200-
and 300-bedded hospitals, categorized by specialty and by frequency of use. The same group
should prepare standard generic technical specifications, and also replacement norms based on
workloads and frequency of use. These lists should be completed in time for the next
procurement cycle, which is due to start at the end of 1994.
59.       For more expensive and sophisticated equipment, future bids should be invited
inclusive of service contracts for 5 years and of upfront supply of critical spare parts. For all
equipment, the provision of circuit diagrams and standard maintenance manuals should be a
standard condition of contract award. For common types of equipment, a PPM system should
be set up either in-house or through private-sector contracting.
Trnsport Maintenance
60.       In the present context of ample availability of private-sector facilities, SHTO has lost
relevance. The current SHTO facilities are weak, and their overhead costs per vehicle repaired
are greater than the total cost of repairs at private-sector facilities. The upgrading of SHTO to
provide adequate repair and service facilities in six zones will require construction of six zonal
workshops, in addition to upgrading of the Jaipur workshop and installation of modem diagnostic
and repair equipment, provision of tools, and recruitment of additional staff. This could involve
a capital cost of Rs. 1-2 crores, besides huge recurrent cost liabilities for staff wages, spares
inventory, cost of services, etc. Such an option would not be cost-effective.
61.       A second option would be to close down the SHTO workshop and restructure the
existing staff. The non-technical unskilled staff could be deployed elsewhere in the system,
while the skilled staff could be posted, after suitable training, at zonal headquarters to carry out
the following functions:
(a) Routine periodic preventive maintenance (PPM) of equipment and vehicles at
districts on a fixed schedule
(b) Preparation of job orders for major repairs through the private sector
(c)  Quality control to certify that repairs are as per job work, and spares replaced are
accounted for
(d)  Analysis of privat-sector capability to carry out repairs on vehicles and equipment
and submit report to zonal chief/headquarter to entering into contract with
workshops for specific jobs.
Fiscal discipline and fiscal flows
62.       Fiscal discipline is weak, but it cannot be enforced by starving facilities of funds,



142                             AnM 12
by erratic releases, or by curbing financial powers to deliver services. The following steps may
help improve the situation:
(a)  Mandatory guidelines should be issued for use of funds not exceeding the budget
allocation and for restraining diversion of funds
(b)  Funds should be released quarterly at the beginning of each quarter, to ensure even
balancing of activities throughout the year and payment against supplies and services
(c) Review of the financial power limits, which have not been revised for the past three
decades. An amount of Rs. 500 which was fixed in the 1960s does not seem
relevant today
(d)  Intemal audit systems should be strengthened to ensure fiscal propriety
-nfaadI      flows
63.       The proposed MIS system should have provision for two-way information flows
instead of one-way collection and storage of information. In addition, a very clear information
flow system for the movement of supplies is necessary in order to track stock movements,
consumption patterns, excess stock holdings, expiry status etc. Such input will help improve
p    ent plaming and processing by providing a rational basis for them.
otributio of the Project
64.       The project would finance construction of one central and 30 district warehouses,
provide storage and material-handling equipment, and finance taining costs and incremental staff
costs during the project period. The project would also finance the upgrading of the drug-testing
laboratry, procurement of equipment, reagents and chemicals, glassware, reference standards,
refernce books and journals, and incremental staff costs during the project period.
65.       In addition, the project would finance equipment for data-processing and inventory
management, and consultant services for equipment inventorisation, equipment standardizaton
and drug selection. A pilot experiment in drug cost-recovery and drug revolving funds, plus
another in the hiring of private cars on an experimental basis in project districts, would also be
financed under the project's fund for innovative schemes.



143                             AnnM  13
SMM of IECei
A=m. Rmiasnd a and
1.       Infimation, Education and Communication (JEC) is a strong component of the
project in all three states. While there are differences in emphasis from state to state, all have
developed resarch-based strategies employing a mix of mass and intepersonal media. the
common elements of all the strategies are first summarised, then followed by a description of
the details of each state's approach and plans for EEC activities in the first year of the project.
Elements Coamon to IEC St     in iAD States
2.        Rajastn and Assam have completed a Communications Needs Assessment (CNA)
of their populations using a mix of qualitative and quantitative techniques. Karnataka, however,
already had a good knowledge of needs, based on experience in implementing the IEC
component of the recently-closed IPP m, and therefore conducted only a general rapid
assessment; it is also planned to initiate a media coverage study early in the first year (see
Annex 16).
2.        These studies have produced convergence of hnkidng on the communication
objectives, target groups, key messages and the media apprpriate for each target-message
combination.
Objectives
3.        Objectives for EEC follow directly from project objectives. For family planning
these are:
(a)  maing the concept of a small family more desirable;
(b)  raising the age at marriage for women;
(c)  delaying the timing of the first birth;
(d)  increasing spacing between pregnancies;
(e) raising awareness of the mix of contraceptive methods available;
(f) reducing the bias against female children
4.        With respect to MCH, the objectives are:
(a)  promotion of antenatal registration and care;



144                             A1
0b) stimulating awareness of the need for and methods of safe delivery;
(c)  increasing compliance with the requirements of postl care;
(d)  creating awareness of immunsation and other child car practices;
(e)  creating specific knowledge with  espect to diarrhoea and acute espiratwy
infections.
5.        Recognition of these eleven objectives has established the need for a fimls
approach. Rajasthan and Karnataka have each developed a marx linkng specific target groups
with specific key messages for each objective.
Target Groups
6.        The segments identified as being rlevant for decisions with respect to Family
Welfare are:
(a)  unmanied females
(b)  newly married couples
(c)  pregnant women
(d)  lactating women
(e)  other married women, including mothers-in-law
(f)  married males
(g) opinion leaders
(h)  health department and other related functionades.
7.        All states have incorporated in their sttegies the design of messages and media for
specific target segments, including further refinements based on tribal or other subculItral
considerations.
Media
8.        Recognising the fact that a very high proportion of mral women are not reached
directly by mass media, aU three states have placed considerable emphasis on intepsnal
communication through health fumntionaries and village-level workers. The Mahila Sastha
Sangh, women health promoter (or link workers) and community-based depot-holders are
proposed to be utiLised by all the states.
9.        At the same time, mass media offer advantages of rapid reach, agenda-seting via
their influence on opinion leaders and virhtuy complete control of the quality and timing of
message exposure. For these reasons, all states have allocated some IEC resources to media
such as radio, video-on-wheels and, to a limited eMent, the press



145                             ARnMx 13
10.       Local media, such as folk theatre and puppet shows, have the advantage of being
completely amenable to modifications based on the characteristics of the local population.
Further, by mixing entertainment with messages aimed at changing beliefs and attitudes, they
ae particularly appropiate when existing attitudes are opposed to the behavior being advocated,
or wher topics being addressed are of a delicate nature. Where these are found lacldng is in
the slow pace at which they reach their audiences and the planning and supervision which their
effecdve utisation requires. The use of these media, therefore, will depend considerably on
the IEC field organisation or on NGOs.
Irst Year Acto Plans
Rajashan
11.       Given the infr s     and the experience that Rajasthan has had through its
UNFPA-snpported EEC Bureau, there is no lead time needed for activities to commence under
the project. During the first year, therefore, the state proposes to:
(a)  iniae 200 new women's groups (MSSs);
(b)  complete IEC trining in 4 districts;
(c)  use mass media with newly-produced software (radio, video spots, short films and
video-on-wheels);
(d) use local media extensively (folk groups, wall paintings, posters and cinema slides);
(e) work actively for NGO involvement in planning and implementing communication
stategies for select groups and areas.
Au=
12.       Based on the findings of the CNA, the state of Assam has divided its target
pouaton into four segments, reflecting socio-cultural characteristics associated with the
geographical zones in the state. These are:
(a)  upper Assam
(b)  lower Assam
(c) hill areas
(d) the Barak valley
13.       The first 12 months of the project will consist of a prepamory phase, followed by
inidation of specific activities. The state epecsu to take about six months "to put things into
place - recruiting (IEC consultant, MSS and WHP volunteers), training exstng IEC personnel,



146                             Annex 13
conducting orientation camps for opinion leaders and procunng equipment.
14.       Following this, it is visualised that, toward the second half of the year, new
communication packages will be developed based on analysis and discussions of the findings
from the assessment studies. Packages for interpersonal communication will be given priority;
other packages will be introduced extensively only after field testing. The identification of folk
groups and their orientation training will also be conducted during this period.
15.       During the first year the state proposes to use existing material from UNICEF,
VHAI and other agencies until its own packages have been finalised.
Karnataka
16.       Karnataka, following its communication strategy matrix approach, has set up the
action plan for the first year as follows:
(a) Aim at younger married women with not more than one child and seek to persuade
the postponement of the next pregnancy, using a mix of radio, television, video vans
and intrpersonal communication through ANMs and MSSs.
(b)  Aim at older married women, not older than 35 years, with two or more children,
and promote non-terminal and terminal methods, using the same mix of media
planned for the younger women.
(c)  Aim at all women in the reproductive age bracket and increase awareness
cncerning FP and MCH services and, in particular, the advantages of antenatal
registration; the media mix is, again, common to the other segments.
(d)  Promote condom usage for family planning and AIDS prevention by targetng all
adult men and women through mass and interpersonal media.
(e) Promote vasectomy to all married men with two or more children.
17.       A distinctive feature of Karnataka's strategy is the identification of satisfied
acceptors for cooption as channels of interpersonal communication; at the same time, dissatisfied
cases will also be identified and their problems addressed.



147                             Annxe
Summy of Strategies for Improf MIS
in Asa. Rajasthan and Karnjuk
General Strategy for Improving Family Welfare MIS
Ibroug Introduction of HMIS
Introduction/Overview
1.       Information systems have been included in the IPP-IX project as an integral
component of all activities. The main goals of the information systems in the project are to
increase the overall capability of the states to udlize informnaton effectively in the management
and evaluation of program and project activities.
Information Systems Management
2.        The overall implementation of the information systems will greatly depend on the
placement of the management function for supevision of computer activities. This supervision
includes the evaluation of computer system uses, planning and implementing new/changes to
systems, staffing of computer personnel, taining of staff, training of users, and general suppt
for systems implementations.
3.        Three major issues have been raised by the projects regarding the placement of
computer responsibilites within the project and program.
4.        The placement of on-going, generic information systems, such as HMIS and PMIS,
should eventually be within the program offices rather than the project offices.
5.        Project information systems will be developed and utilized by the project staff for
the implementation of IPP specific activities.
6.        Project information will include planning of IPP activities, and reporting of
completed activities. The project information systems will be within the project directorate,
rather than within the ministry offices.
7.        Each functional cell, such as construction or training, should be responsible for the
maintenance of their own information databases, with the technical assistance of the information
cell which will support the computer systems and software.
8.       Integration of statistical staff and functions is one of the major goals to be achieved
during the project. The current division of reporting tasks within the state at the district level
make integrated analysis of information very C 'ficult, as well as redundant collection and
reporting of information which increases the burden on the PHC level of the system.



148                              Annex 14
9.        A combined statistical staff at the state and district level will facilitate the processing
of information from HMIS and PMIS, as well as reduce the reporting requirements throughout
the state system.
State Specific Implementations:
Assam:
10.       Project office will be initially responsible for information systems, with plans to
move information functions to the program offices as the project progresses. Support for the
implementation of information systems will be predominately provided by the National
Informatics Centre (NIC) for the implementation of HMIS and PMIS systems.
Karnataka:
11.       A combined MIS approach will utilize program staff, in addition to project staff, to
initially start activities. The project will extensively use outside resources for the initial
implementation of project and program systems.
12.       The goal will be eventually move the MIS functions into the operational offices
within program activities, with a central information centre being used to route information from
the Districts.
Rajasthan:
13.       It is planned that the implementation of information systems will be integrated with
current program activities. Additionally, Rajasthan is proposing that all the statistical functions
be integrated at the District level.
14.       Decisions on information systems and implementation, will be made within the
ministry, with the consultation of the project directorate for IPP specific reporting needs.
15.       The District MIS Cell will be implemented to support the CM&HO to identify
corrective actions necessary at the field level. The cell will also work in coordination with the
DTC's in helping database planning.
16.       At the Directorate level, there are also different statistical officers and there support
staff under different wings of the department. This leads to delays in obtaining information and
duplication of efforts. These functions are to be integrated as an Integrated Statistical Unit (ISU)
under the common administrative control of a Joint Director Statistics.
17.       At the secretariat level, a Stategic Management Unit (SMU) will be set up for
performance monitoring and to reflect on existing strategies of service delivery, resources and



149                             Annx 14
acwities necessary to direct the ptst The District MIS cell and the ISU wil
provide reg  information to tie SMU.
18.      The SMU and HRD cell at the state level wil not duplicate fnction. The former
will work with performance indicators and servce delivery stragies, whereas the latter will be
concened about personal infonnation in the PMIS system and HRD functions.
Project M         and Evalation System
19.       No specific monitoring and evuation systems are requred by the prqject
direckoates. Each of the projects has provision for a computer system in the direcorate for the
tracking and reporting of project activities. Altiough no specific plans are presented the project
informaton systems in the directorat will be included in the HMIS and PMIS distribution /
connections.
20.       The M&E systems will have additional capabilites for the tracling of budget
xpenditures, and the pe    of prss and review rets.
21.       All Proect offices will be responsible for maintaining an annual project time-line
and budget. This would most effectively be compueid with available software. This time-
line will be used as the basis for project planning and evaluadon by supevision missions. At
al times the Project shoud maintain a two year time-line. Every six months the time-line for
past actual activities and next six-months planned acivities Should be maintained.
22.       Additional tools for project mangement such as custom budget software,
spreadsheets for financial and trends analysis, graphic presentaion, etc. should be used as much
as possible by the Project staff in the implemenion of the project. These tools will give the
project better control of fiscal and activities related information.
Other Systems:
Assam:
23.       The Construction Cell will udiize HMIS informaion, as well as develop separate
trackdng systems for project infrtr   activities. The Monitoring and Evaluation cell will
coordinate with the HMIS cell for the gatheing of infomnation on project activities, and the
preparaton of additional sysUtds for the aalyis of project goals and achievements.
Kat:
24.       A building construton  aement system will allow for the tracldng of project
infrstructur activities. This stem wil alow the constuction cell to prepare and evaluate
construction plans within the state. A separte training maagement system will allow for the



ISO                             Annex 14
tracking of training activities for integration with the HMIS information for evaluation of project
acdvities.
25.       A range of additional information systems is proposed under the project. These
include IEC matenals production, Training materials production and informnaton support systems
in the project directorate. Definition and integration of these systems will fall under the
guidance of the project office. Approval for these systems will be reviewed during supervision
missions as necessary.
Health Magement Inforation System  IM ) Description
DPUI.
26.       The Health Management Information System (HMIS) is a formalized computer
reportng system for the gathering of family welfare and health information. The HMIS was
developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) with significant input by the Ministry and
States.
27.       The HMIS is comprised of two parts, paper reporting aggregation from the PHC
level, and computerized reports and processing at the District and state level. The goal of the
system is to gather substantial amounts of both statistcal and operational/management
infomation, without creating an undue burden on the headth worker.
28.       One of the major problems with the health reporting systems at present is the
redundancy of informaton collected and processed at each of the health care levels. The
integrated HMS will allow for the unified collection and dissemination of all program and
project information. The HMIS will gather its first level of information from the PHC's for the
speified information catchment area. The information will be computerized at the District
level, and forwarded to the state for aggregation.
29.       The HMIS allow for reports to be prepared at each of the levels for management
planning and statistical analysis. These reports will be modified prior to HMIS implementation
to allow for a more powerful use of the information.
30.       Each of the states is implementing the systems in a slightly different fashion. There
are basically two configurations for implementation: 1) use of the current NIC computers in
each of the districts on a time-sharing basis; and, 2) installation of a computer in the District
Health Office.
Assam:
31.       Computers will be used in the NICNET offices initiaWly for the implementation of
the HMIS system. Provisions are made in the project for the possible insallation of computers
in the Districts after the HMIS has been operational for 2-3 years.



151                              Anne.I1
32.       Initially, the project staff in the Health Management Information Systems Cell will
be responsible for the implementation of the HMTS, with the HMIS functions being phased into
program activities as the project progresses.
NIC will provide substantia support for the HMIS both at the District and State levels.
Activities will be integrated with the needs of the Construction, and Monitoring and Evaluation
Cells in the Project Directorate. The status of the supervision of the MIS systems within the
project will be reviewed after three years to assess the integration of the systems
into the operational program offices.
33. Training programs will stress the building of computer capabilities in the project and
program activities.
Karnataka:
34.       Computers will be used in the MCNET offices for the collection and reporting of
HMIS information. At present there is no plan for an integrated  aistical staff either at the
district or the state level. Each of the different program officers will be responsible for the
collection and reporting of different HMIS information groups.
At the state level HMIS reports will be prepared at a cental location withiin the project and
di3seminated to the different officers.
Rajasthan:
35.       HMIS will be implemented throughout the state with computers being installed in
each district health office. An integrated statistical staff wiU be responsible for the collection
of information, and the management of the computer systems. The training program for HMIS
will include a Training of Trainers O¶T) for the health stical staff which will allow them
to train the PHC level medical officers and statistical staff.
36.       The HMGS implementation plans wiU be prepared by the program office, with input
from the district officers. New reporting forms will be used to gather information from the PHC
level.
Additionally, a pilot program wil be undertaken to test the usefulness of a family card system
for reporting information at the sub-centre level. If the pilot proves effective the system will
be implemented on a state-wide basis under the HMIS system. An additional test of modified
registers will be conducted in selected districts. This test will evaluate the use and effectiveness
of the revised registers designed by the NIC and CBHI.



152                             An= 14
Personl M agement Infonnatlon Systm (IWS) Dlescrption
37.       Each of the IPP states will be implementing a PMIS system under the project. The
initial level of the PMIS will be to cover the medical personnel information for training and
placement purposes. Given the number of medical personnel, it is not feasible to implement a
full PMIS system in the initial phases of the project. However, there is a need for a simple
taining system, somewhat parallel to the PMIS, which will allow the project directoate to plan
and assess tmaining activities (see below: Other Systems).
Asm:
38.       The project dietorat, Human Manpower Development (HMD) Cell, will be
responsible for the initial implementation of the PMIS, with integated use of information from
the Health Managenent Information Systems Cell.
39.       Design and implementation of the PMIS system will be with the NIC office. The
PMaS models developed by NIC in other suites will be used as a basis for the development of
the Assam PMIS.
Ka _:taka
40.       The PMIS will be developed under contact to the Ministry for implementation in the
project directorate. The complete plans for design and implementation are yet to be
determined.
Rajasthan:
41.       The Human Resource Development (HRD) cell will be responsible for the
implementation of the PMIS and a training system. The HRD will contract with the National
Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) for the modification of its PMIS to the needs of the
state. NIDC will also provide training in the use of the system, and the initial data collection
of medical personnel information.
42.       The PMIS will initially only collect information on Medical Officers within the
system. After the initial PMIS implementation, a review of the effectiveness of the system will
evaluate whether the system should be expanded to other peonnel categories.
43.       A training information system will be designed, with possible assistance from
IIHMR, by the HRD. This system will track training class records, number and type of trinees
and programs.



153                             Anne I
uladvLJtM of lnnm vative Me=
1.        This Annex lists only innovative schemes that are to be funded under the fund for
innovative schemes. Many other innovative progmms and approaches are included in the four
major components of the project, for example the mobile boat and van clinics in Assam and
Rajasthan and the various community-based volunteer schemes that are to be tried out in the
he  states. They are not included here.
2.        Some of the innovative schemes listed below have been developed in more detail
than others. The amount of detil and description given will vary accordingly.
ASAM
A: Ne  Aahd  to Vehiclennanc
3.        There is a perpetual shortage of vehicles for program management. Thus for every
new project, requests for replacement of broken or out-of-service vehicles and/or addition of
new vehicles for project management are regularly made. Vehicle management and maintenance
is very weak in Assam; often vehicles that have been damaged in accidents or have broken down
are sent to SHTO workshops for repairs which may take years due to lack of funds or spare
parts. After a few years these vehicles become irrepamble and are condemned.
4.        Currently, the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare in Assam has a fleet of 713
vehicles, of which 391 are funded by the state and the balance by centally assisted programs
(F.P. and U.I.P.). The share of vehicles funded by cental government is increasing as more
and more centrally assisted disease control progrms such as CSSM, AIDS Control, Blindness
and Leprosy come on board. Out of these 713 vehicles, only about 360 vehicles are on the
road, while 46 are awaiting the completion of the condemnation process and subsequent
replacement, and over 300 have been lying at SHTO (the State Health Transport Organization)
from three months to three years awaiting repairs.
5.        SHTO was created with UNICEF assistance in the late 1960's in order to maintain
and repair the health fleet, at a time when private-sector service facilities in Assam were either
extremely poor or non-existent. UNICEF continued sustaining these workshops through funding
of equipment, tools and spares till the late 1970's, when it phased out its assistance. SHTO
workshops then slowly degenerated to their current level of inaction, with no indepedent



154                             Annex IS
budget, no tools, no spare parts, and no provision for upgrading staff skills to service the new
range of vehicles. Often field officers avoid sending vehicles to SHTO unless the vehicle has
either been involved in a major accident or is broken down and in need of major repairs to the
point that it cannot be used any longer. These vehicles are then dumped at SHTO workshops
for slow-paced repairs which may sometimes take years to complete. Most department equate
sending vehicles to SHTO for repairs with a condemnation process, and start clamoring for new
vehicles immediately. With the emergence of well-organized private-sector facilities even at
district level, SHTO has lost its relevance and cannot compete with the private sector in speed
of work or in prices.
6.        The fixed cost of STfrO staff (not including variable costs like utilities, office
expenses etc.) is Rs. 13,000 per vehicle. This is the total budget for a vehicle's POL and
maintenance. Even if all vehicles were to be regularly serviced, maintained and repaired in-
house at SHTO, the maintenance cost per vehicle would be around Rs. 33,000, in comparison
with less than half this cost, for maintenance of the same vehicle, at private- sector workshops.
However, private-sector facilities are generally very good at dealing with breakdown and major
repairs, but weak in servicing and preventive maintenance (which are low-cost, low-margin
activities).
7.        Thus an appropriate solution to maintenance management will be the use of a blend
of private- and public-sector facilities to keep the fleet moving, and to phase SHTO out slowly
as and when full service facilities are available in pnvate sector.
8.        Based on ftis concept, the project will phase out two SHTO units while
strengthening the central workshop and two regional workshops to undertake specialized
assembly-line operations such as servicing, lathe work and preventive maintenance. Breakdown
repairs, body work etc. would be left to the private sector.
9.        The SHTO skdlled staff who are not absorbed into assembly-line operations will be
re-deployed for job-order evaluation, post-repair quality control, accounting and disposal of
replaced spare parts, and assessment and evaluation of private-sector capability for long- term
fixed-price contracts. This interim arrangement will spread the final exit of SHTO over a few
years and reduce the impact of sudden job losses. In addition, the division of labor between
SHTO and private sector will improve efficiency and reduce costs.
B: Pilot Experiment in the Use of Hired Vehicles for Field Transport
10.       Over the years, the number of vehicles provided to support health and family
welfare programs in Assam has increased through inputs from different sources. Yet lack of
mobility is still cited as one of the major reasons for weak supervision and management of new
projects. No real count of vehicles, including their location, distribution and functional status
is usually available; often more than half of them are not functioning, but either awaiting



155                             Annex 1S
condemnation and replacement or sitting at SHTO workshops waiting vainly to be repaired
because of lack of funds for spare parts. Clear-cut allotment norms also either do not exist or
are not followed in practice. Thus, out of a current total Health and Family Welfare fleet of 713
vehicles, 56 are at various stages of the condemnation process, 300 have been at SHTO for
periods of 3 months to 3 years, and only a balance of about half are actually in service. Even
these vehi 'es in service are more than 5 years old, have done more than 100,000 kms and will
soon be needing replacement in any case. Transport management and maintenance are weak,
and vehicles are seldom optimally used through pooling of resources or combining of supervision
visits. Under this current state of poor management there will always be a lack of mobility
support for supervision and project implementation.
11.      Inspection of the distribution list of vehicles for various Health and Family Welfare
Programs reveals that about 25 percent of vehicles, such as ambulances, project management
and CMHO and DFPO vehicles form the critical core of the fleet. The balance of the fleet is
for use in program supervision, field monitoring or as entitlement for various programs. For
field supervision or monitoring, vehicles do not need to operate every day of the month, nor is
it necessary (as is the practice now) to send separate vehicles for each program supervision visit.
In fact field travel is already limited by inadequate POL and travel budgets. Yet even so, much
more field supervision could be carried out by means of proper planning, coordinating and
overlapping of itineraries, so that a single vehicle could carry a group of officers to the field for
supervision of separate programs on the same day at the same CHCs or PHCs. With proper
pooling of vehicles, it might not even be necessary to allot vehicles to individual programs, or
consequently to maintain such a big fleet of vehicles for field supervision.
12.       The cost of maintaining a departmental fleet is also extremely high. Using standard
condemnation norms of seven years or 125,000 Iam, the annual cost of maintaining a
departmental vehicle works out to about Rs. 125,000 per annum if amortisation is based on
replacement costs, and to about Rs. 110,000 per annum if it is based on purchase costs. This
includes POL costs, driver wages and travel allowance, maintenance costs and amortisation.
13.       A system of hiring vehicles on demand for periodic pooled field visits would work
out much cheaper than maintaing an in-house fleet of vehicles with its attendant problems of
fleet management and maintenance, staf management and monitoring and accounting of POL,
and repair costs at ill-equipped SHTO workshops. Even for 10 to 12 planned field visits a
month, vehicle-hire at an average rate of Rs. 600-700 per day would cost only Rs. 7,200-8,400
per month or Rs. 86,400-100,000 per annum. This is well below the cost of maintaining an in-
house fleet of vehicles over the same period. By pooling field visits, the actual number of hired
vehicles needed could be reduced to less than the current operational plus dead fleet of vehicles,
and hence also the overall cost of transport.
14.       The Assam Directorate of Health and Family Welfare has agreed in principle to
prune down its vehicle fleet over time to the critical core, and to explore alternative approaches
to current fleet management and operating systems. However before a final decision is taken,



156                             Annex IS
a pilot experiment will be conducted in two districts under the fund for innovative schemes. It
will test out the hiring of vehicles on contract from private operators for routine field operations.
This pilot experiment will be evaluated in time for the project Midterm Review. A decision will
then be taken on the basis of the evaluation as to whether the hiring system should be further
extended. In the meantime, the project will fund the procurement of field supervision vehicles
in all but the two pilot districts. If it is decided to extend the vehicle-hiring system, these
vehicles would then be phased out when they have finished their useful life.
C: Support to Experimental Service Delivery and IEC Schemes Developed By NGOs:
15.       NGOs will be encouraged to develop their own experimental and innovative schemes
in Family Welfare service delivery and IEC for submission to the project for funding.
D: Promotion of Spdacing Mhods:
16.       Experimental schemes to promote the greate- use of family planning spacing
methods wiil be developed for funding as part of an over. i strategy under development for
promotion of these methods.
E: New Approaches to Service Delivery and IEC in Remote Tribal Areas:
17.      In consultation and partnership with District Development Councils in the most
heavily tribal districts of Assam, a set of experimental approaches to service delivery and IEC
in the tribal areas that are most remote and difficult of access. They would feature experiments
with recruitment of tribal girls, relaxation of ANM entry qualifications and sub-centre coverage
norms, community provision of access pathways to sub-centres, possible traditional construction
of sub-centres, locally-tailored types of community participation and linkages, including the
involvement of the Councils, etc.
KARNATIKA
A: Involvement of PVOs and PMPs
18.       Private voluntary organizations having good reputation for conducting social welfare
activities will be selected for promoting FW and MCH services. Where PVOs are not present,
the MO of the PHC will promote formation of Mahila Swathya Sanghas in which the local
women leaders and female workers of Health & Family welfare, and Education departments.



157                            An= 1S
B: Special Program for Tribal Areas
19.      It is proposed to select girls from tribal hamlets and provide them ANM training and
post them in tibal hamlets and assign them an area with 500 population. The emphasis would
be on health and nutrition rather than on family planning. The minimum educational
qualifications for AN4 training will be relaxed if suitable candidates are not available. In all
100 tribal girls (20 each year) will be tamined and posted as ANMs in tribal hamlets and provided
midwifery kit and sub-center equipment.
C: Involvement of Industrial Houses in IEC
20.       Leading industrial houses both in the private and public sectors promote and support
sports and other social activities. It is proposed to conduct workshops to get them involved in
health and family welfare education by developing IEC materials and/or hiring time slot on DD
and AIR at prime time. Leading personalities from film industry and advertising who are
interested in social welfare will also be invited for these workshops.
D: Non-Fornal Education For Girls and Young Women
21.       The State Education Department is having programs to achieve 100 percent literac
in all districts of the State. The Program contemplated under IPP IX Project is aimed at school
dropout girls in the ages 11 - 14 and neo-literate young women in the ages 15-29 years. The
curnculum for non-formal education will comprise modules and personal hygiene, environmental
sanitation, late age at marriage, aseptic delivenes, limiting and spacing of children etc.
E: Clubs for Newly Married Couples
22.      It is proposed to forn Newly Married (ouples' Clubs and use it as a forum for
promoting and encouraging the members to adopt spacing methods to increase the intera
between age at marriage and birth of first child.
F: Community Incentives
23.       Villages achieving highest CPR will be given community incentives benefiting the
community. They include bore well, additional class rooms etc.



158                            Agnex 1S
0: Marketing of Nirodh
24.       It is proposed to make available Nirodh through the public distribution system. The
shops will be given stocks of Nirodh free of cost or at nominal price and permitted to sell at
prefixed price and retain the profits. This will be in addition to marketing of Nirodh by
Voluntary workers appointed in the villages.
R:AJ
A: Community BMWe Distribution of Conacpie
25.       Drawing upon the rich experience gained in two districts (Udaipur and Alwar) in
the state, the program for promotion of community based distribution of contraceptives will be
expnded to six more districts from different socio-cultural regions in a phased manner. IEC
Bureau is currently implementing Village Contact Drive(VCD) and Community Based
Distribution (CBD) schemes. These will be evaluated first, as pre-project activity. It is
proposed to organize VCDs on selective themes in limited number of districts based on low cost
and effective Social Mobilization.
B: Social Marketing of Contra:eptives
26.       It is proposed to promote social marketing of contraceptives, which is already
operational in some form through RAJFED and CONFED outlets through coopertives and
public distribution system. Social marketing wiU be promoted in selected 10 districts through
NGOs nd other selected agencies in a phased manner. It is also envisaged to convert the
Janmag  Volunteers (CBD) to point of purchase (POP) during the process over the period of
time. The contraepves will be marketed through private shop owners, fair price shops and
other non conventional outlets. However, the marketing wiU be done through an identified
marketing agency or NGOs or the cooperatives.
C: pamily Life Education
27.      It is proposed to initiate Family Life Education for the adolescent and school going
children in selected schools. The program will focus on small family concepts and ways and
means of limiting family size. The program will also focus on behavior dependent chronic life
style diseases, and emerging problem of AIDS and drug abuse.



159                             Annex 1S
D: NMnediadcang1EQ1kMeia
28.      In many of the parts of the state, the reach of media is poor. It is proposed to
promote use of Non-Broadcasting Media and Folk Media in these areas to strengthen
communication.
E: Participation of EPO/Dy. EPO along with BEEs in Block level monthly meetings with MOs
and other health workers
29.       For promoting coordination between the services delivery and the IEC departments,
besides the review meetings, joint idea generation sessions and communication material
development workshops will be arranged.
F: Intensive Care and Monitoring of Mothers and Infants in Speciat Population Groups
30.       A study wll be carried out in one of the migrant groups and in one of the trbal
blocks and this will be undertaken by an NGO with the support of the local health services. The
study will aim at developing and testing a strategy to improve the effectiveness of health care
for mothers and infants in these groups. The strategies will be such that they are replicable and
sustainable. A suitable research organization will be asked to develop, implement and evaluate
such a project in coordination with the NGO and Government, during the first year of the project
and the study will be implemented from second year onwards.
0: Delivery Facilities at the Sub-Center
31.       The CSSM  stategy of the GOI lays emphasis on increasing the number of
institutional deliveries at aU levels, including sub-center level. In Rajasthan almost 80% of the
deliveries in the rul areas are home deliveries. To increase the number of institutional
deliveries, apart from IEC efforts, facilities for conducting deliveries at the sub-centers wil be
provided in 100 Sub-Centers in selected areas of the Ten Westem Districts. The areas will be
selected on the basis of the past performance and willingness of the ANMs and an assessment
by the district authorities of community acceptance. These 100 Sub-Centers will be selected
from among the 860 Sub-Centers to be constructed under the project and they will be constructed
on a modular patter.
H: Matema  EWA  Surveillance Sy,=
32.      It is proposed to develop a Surveillance system for maternal health with the aim of
reducing maternal mortality and morbidity. A Baseline Survey will be conducted in few blocks



160                             Annex 15
of three districts on the pattern of UIP cluster sampling. Based on the findings of the survey
a system will be developed. The purpose of the surveillance system will be to obtain better
information on matenal deaths, and if possible, information on selected matemal morbidity
conditions, so that appropriate preventive measures can be designed on a community-wide basis.
The surveillance system would include hospitals, rural 'key informants' such as TBAs, School
teachers, village head, link workers, local NGOs and institutions, etc.
I: Re-Orienting Target
33.       Two of the blocks will be identified for this exercise early on in the project. In these
blocks, a system will be developed in which the various levels of health personnel will be
systematically involved in developing family planning and MCH coverage targets for their own
operational areas. These locally generated, modified targets will be used at Sub-Center, PHC
and block levels to monitor performance and take --propriate measures on continuing basis.
Such an Operational Research exercise on partic..  ry target setting will help to build more
reality and a sense of ownership to these targets. -rhe "tyranny" associated with targets can be
overcome by this process.  A Research Institution will be invited to provide assistance and
jointly design this exerise.
J: Involvement of ReligioLs Ta4Mr
34.       A lump sum has been provided to hold dialogue with religious leaders and through
their involvement and support implement schemes designed to promote FW and MCHI programs
in selected communities.



161                              Ans= 16
Maor Flndlnf of Training Needs Assessments and Bleneficiar Needs Auents
Done As PPa of Proect Preparation
Assam, -Zsta an 
TRAIMNG NEEDS ASSESSMENTS
Am
Introduction
1.        The State of Assam TNA, conducted in March-May 1993, included a survey all
training institutions and interviews with 861 health care providers, from 6 randomly selected
districts. The intiew sample induded aU categories of family welfare workers and all levels
of service
The TNA had the following objectives:
(a)  To assess the physical status of the government training failities for family welfare
workers.
(b) To identify gaps in knowledge and skills among family welfare workers.
(c) To determine the requirements of training facilities for additional
personnel,equipment and matrial.
(d) To assess the performance of. faculty assigned to training institutions.
Health Worker Performance
Auwiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM)
2.        The ANMs were found to have inadequate knowledge in the following important
aspects of MCH/FP services: antenatal, natal and post natal care; identification of high risk
pregnancies and abnormal presentations; preparaion for normal deliveries; neonatal care,
permanent contaceptive methods and IUD insertion; ARI management and danger signs of
diarrhoea and dehydration.
Trained Dais
3.        The survey results rport poor performance in the most important aspect of the
TBAs responsibility, i.e., home delivery. Specifically, the assessment results reveal poor
knowledge of the clean delivery techniques, the danger signs for referral of pregnant women and
care of common post-natal problems.



162                             Annex I
Medical Officeni
4.        Although medical officer are not directly esponsible for MCH/FP services, as fte
leaders of the health care tem they train and supervise othes. Their knowledge of MCH/FP
services was found to be very poor and their supevisory civities unsatisfy.
5.        Participation by medical officers in MCHIFP relted orientation and training courses
offered by the state or National Health Progranmes is very low. Th greatest participation has
been in UIP (50%) and ORT (38%) training. Attendance of the 119 sampled medical officers
at other orientation courses was poor e.g. CSSMu17%; ICDS 21 %; ARU 6%; trainer training
for MPWs 10%.
Beneficdary Comments
6.        Focus group feedback from clients inicae unhappiness with MCH services.
Mothers complain that health workers are unavailable to them at the tme of delivery, when
"idemics" occur and when they wish to disu  health matters.
7.        The ANMIGNM basic haining schools are adequately staffed but are not adequately
preparing students for their MCH/PP resonibilities. he schools are acadically oriented and
provide insufficient opportunities for practical traiing.  he study found that less than 50
percent of schools provide field practice  tunities for their stdents despite the Nursing
counsel norm that each ANM/GNM should have 24 week of field practice.
8.        The needs assessment povides the following specific indications of the need to
improve MCH/FP components of the ANM/GNM curriculum: a) a significant percent (50%)
of the schools omit family welfar and family planning from the cuniculum; b) IUD insertion
skdlls is not taught in 42% of the schools; institons; c) immiion    s, including basic
information about immuniton schedules ad cold chain mt was not taught 32% of
schools; d) the majority of schools ae not t ng antenatal car and detion of high risk
pregnant women, childhood communicable disease manageament and child nutrition.
9.        The majority of basic training schools for both GNM and ANM are located in
facilities which were originally constructed as hostel acommodations. Of the 21 government
training schools, only 4 have separate training facilities. In generl, training facities have
inadequate space for clasooms and faculty offics¢ and the hostel accommodations are grossly
inadequate (a room of 18 sq mts accmmodates 5-6 -- ets). Libry spce is virtualy non
existnt and only a few text book are available for faculty and student use. There are no
nursing joumals, and no government publicaions nd manuals for the tainees.
10.       Participation of training facult in ree     training has been very poor. Only 19



163                              Annex 16
percent of the 190 faculty members of the basic and in-service training institutes have
participated in refresher training during the last two years.
11.       The TNA does not include an assessment of trainer's knowledge and skills for
technical subjects or for teaching process.
12.       Training facilities in PHCs and District Headquarters need improvement.  Most
PHCs have a room for tamining 20-40 students at a time but furniture and training aids are not
available. The district headquarters have either assigned or improvised a room for monthly
meetings which is also used for occasional training of grass roots workers. These rooms lack
furniture and training equipment.
13.       The State Family Planning Training Institute, Guwahati (HFWTC)conducts in-
service training for all health workers and trainers and the Rural Health Training Centre, Chabua
conducts basic training for health assistants, sanitary assistants and medical interns. Both
facilities are adequately staffed and appear to be under-utilized in their current roles i.e. the
HFWTC has 15 faculty and in 1992 the institute provided training for 280 participants in groups
with an average size of 18 people. Both facilities would need improvements in order to
accommodate the increased training load proposed in the IPP9 project.
S~ax ataka
Introductin
14.       The Population Centre, Bangalore conducted a study of six IPP-3 district of
Karnatiaka in preparation for IPP-3. The prupose of the study was to determine gaps in
knowledge skills and practices of health assistants and block health educators. The study results
indicated that serious gaps existed in the kmowledge, skills and practices of personnel in the areas
of family planning, maternal and child health, nutrition, immunication, control of communicable
diseases, and health education. The study concluded that single prupose workers had been
retrained as multipurpose workrs but the retraining did not appear to be adequate.
15.       In preparation for IPP-9 the Government of Karnataka conducted a training needs
assessment. Questionnaires were administered to medical officers (64), female sr. health
assistants (42); female jr. health assistants (120); TBAs (81); male sr. health assistants(38); male
jr. health assistants (105). The questionnaires requested the MOs to self report on training needs
and on their roles as trainers and supervisors. The questionnaires for paramedical workers and
TBAs included questions to test Inowledge of MCH/FP subjects.
Health Worker Prformace
16.       According to the survey data more than 90% of those included in the survey have
received training (time reference for training is not given nor does the document indicate



164                                        Annex 16
whether the referenced taining is basic or in-service training)
17.          The conclusions of the INA  include the following:
(a)   "Nearly half of the paramedial workers indicated that current level of skills is
insufficient and is an obstacle in delivery of FP and MCH services."
(b)   "Around 60 percent of medical officers feel that paramedical staff need training."
(c)   (c) "..80 percent of the doctors stated that the health centre does not have adequate
training aids".
Area in wich traiung is required                   Category of Ptmmedical Staff
_  BE   LHvI ANM  Sr. HAM    rt. HAM
IEC                                          Yes    y      -s
Education throuth mass media                 Yes           _
Training in audio.visual aids in public health  Yes
DrogranMmes
Community participation in implementation of  Yes
National Health Proami    ___es
ConrnnunityEducation                         Yes |_ _
* Motivation for FW                          Yes    Yes   Yes          Yes       Yes
Communtty approach                                         Yes
Envmmnmental Sanitaion. Nutntion. MCli TB.   Yes    Yea    yes        Yes        Yes
AMDS, Malaria and Mental Heath
health Education                             Yes    Yes _             Yes
Family Welfare                               Yes    Ycs               Yes
FP Metiods                                   Yes    Yes               Yes
MC! .:L UIP, CSSm                            yes IYS    ye            Yes        Yes
L unization                                  Yes   -                  Yes        Yes
;UD insrtion                                        Yes   Ycs
iMDS                                                Yes   =
Reonentation in National Health Prmammes            Yes               Yes        Yes
Orienttion .n FW prgranme in uban area              yes   Yes         Yes Ycs
iealth services in rban slums                        -     Yes        Yes        Yes
Su> rvsion                                          Yes    Yes        Yes        Yes
Jo~ Onetnation                                              Yes
San:ation                                                  -          Yes        Yes
Conmniwucable diseases and their control                              Yes        Yes
Training iLsboraoIvtests                 I                      .                Yes
Vital Statistscs                            -                         Yes        Yes
_MES                                                Yes          Y cs  Yes       Y
'rainir; fo   romoon                                I      Yes                   Yes
1.9^.        A workshop to discuss the survey data concluded that "there is an immediate need
to retain all paramedical staff preferably at the district level. The group further recommended
a government of Karnataka policy to offer in-service training for paamedical workers at least
every three years for a duration of two weeks.



165                             A x16
Training Institutions
HFWTC
20.       The State has five HFWTCs providing in-service and pre-service training for
medical officers, training faculty, supervisory workers and paramedical staff. The facilities are
adequate with the exception of the facilities at Mandya and Ramanagaram. In Mandya, training
is conducted at a temporary facility which is to be replaced by a permanent facility and relocated
in Mysore. The Ramanagaram centre requires additional teaching space.
ANM Tmining Schools
21.       There is one training centre with hostel facilities in each of the 19 districts. Eleven
of the 19 have their own buildings with hostel facilities, the remaining witht are function in
district hospitals and using the hostel accommodation provided in the general nursing hostel.
There is a need to construct seven training facilities in the districts of Bellary, Dakshin, Kannad,
Hassan, Kodagu, Mandya, Mysore and Uttar Kannad.
LHV Promotional Taining Schools
22.       There are four training centres functional at Bangalore, Belgaum, Gulbarga and
Mangalore but three schools have no training or hostel facilities. Construction of a school at
Gulbarga is nearing completion and the proposal includes a provision for a facility at Bangalore.
The Belgaum and Mangalore schools will be closed and the two remaining schools will be
capable of raining sufficient LHVs to meet staffing requirements until the year 2000.
Traiing Materials
23.       Library materials including reference books, journals, and student manuals are
needed for all ANM, LHV and HFWTC training facilities.
24.       No taining needs assessment was carried out for Rajasthan, since one had recently
been completed under UNFPA funding. Its results were used to prepare the training component
of the project in Rajasthan.
COMMUNICATIONS NEEDS ASSESSMENTS
Am
25.       The assessment of communication needs for this state has been completed. The state
was divided into four geographical zones: lower Assam, upper Assam, Barak valley and the hill



166                             Annex16
districts. 14 districts were included: Dhubri, Kamrup, Nalbari, Sonitpur, Naogaon, Jorhat,
Golaghat, Dibrugarh, Lahimpur, Tinsukia, Cachar, Karimgani, N.C. Hills and Karbi Anglong.
The final report has not been received from the agency given this task, but a preliminary
presentation indicates the following:
(a)  Women, as a group, are likely to show less resistance to family welfare
communication. This is because, compared to many other states, their status is
higher, as are their aspirations - educational and economic. Muslims, particularly
on the Chars, are an exception.
(b)  Reflecting this status is the finding that husband as well as wives are decision
makers with respect to family planning choices, although elders are consulted.
(c) Elders, in fact, are also recognized as "knowing best' when to get boys and girls
married; hence, despite the status of women and the relative autonomy of the
husband-wife unit, elders constitute as important target group.
(d)  Doctors, while being acknowledged as a credit source on MCH and PP issues, are
not cited as the first point of reference by young men and women seeking
information.
(e) As in the case of Rajasthan, analysis of data based on attitudes reveals that target
group segmentation based on preisoition to fimily welfre issues will be useful.
MOMSg S==eg
(f) Data on age of manriage are quite encouraging. Except for the hills population, all
segments agree that the girl's age at marriage should be at least 20. This compares
with the actual figure (1991) of 19.92 years.
(g) Knowledge of the fact that there is a legal provision on this or what the legally
correct age should be is, however, low. But given the earlier finding, it may not
be necessary to push a legal message.
(h) The data suggest that it will be easier to promote spacing after the first child.
While the "need" to produce a child immediately after marriage is more pronounced
among tribals and the Char Muslims, all segments show this attitude. This is
despite the fact that the benefits of spacing are well known.
(i)  Similarly, the benefits of a small family are klown, but the ideal family size is
considered to be more than two children. Expectedly, the discrepancy is accounted



167                             Anx16
for by fears that one child may die and the need for more hands to help with the
family's earning capacity.
(j)  There is some indication that the belief persists ta family planning is "bad" and
associated with killing.
(k)  The preference for at least one son is widespread.
(1)  Only 30% of the population appears to have "ever tried" a family planning method.
Intentions to adopt a method in the future are even lower.
(m) With respect to MCH, less than 505 of the women reported having taken Ir for the
last pregnancy, the figures for tribals and Muslims being much lower. Coverage
indicated by EFA intake and ANC checkups is also low.
(n) In general, awareness of MCHI services is low, especially in the Hills. Not only are
services not seen as critical among those who do know about them, but s high as
40% feel that availing such services may result in the child having to be aborted.
(o)  Only 17% of children were reported as having been covered completely. This is
clearly a problem that needs special focus, especially in the Char area.
(p)  Besides awareness being a problem, especially among mother'sn-law and men,
there are also attitdinal points of resistance expressed in beliefs such as that the
health is in "god's hands" and that immunization is 'not necessary."
Media &tra
(q)  The most surprising finding in this area is that home visits by ANMs have been to
less than 10% of households. This would clearly restrict the impact of interpsonal
communication through her.
(r)  At the same time, the reach of mass media - TV, radio, outdoor and even press -
is found to be high.
(s)  There is great dependence on government institutions for treatment, so on-premise
communications could be focused on this audience.
26.      In Karnataka, communications needs were already well understood through the
studies and activities carried out under the very strong IEC component implemented under IPP
m, which had closed not long before preparation for EPP IX began. Nothing beyond a rapid



168A
assessment was therefore needed for preparing the IEC stategy for IPP IX. However the IEC
management team plar.s to caTry out a special preparatory study of mass media coverage at the
begiing of the project, since this is the one area in which they feel more detailed information
is needed for implementing the strategy.
Raastban
27.       The Rajasthan CNA, conducted in 1991, was carried out in five districts, selected
from each of five geographical zones. The disticts chosen were Bharatput, Jodhpur, Churu,
Bundi and Banswara. In addition, two urban centers, Nasirbad and Kota, selected purposely to
represent population strata of less than 100,000 and more than 500,000, respectively, were
included. Using a mix of qualitative and quantitive techniques, the following findings were
obtained:
ITage gm
(a) A two-step analysis revealed that there was scope to segment the population into
attitudinal groups within demographic categories. For example, unmarried males
compared to unmamed females, showed a more favorable attitude toward female
age of marriage being more than 18 years. Similarly, (male) heads of household
were more hikely than mothers-in-law to agree that the ideal number of children was
"up to 2."
gb) In general, younger groups were found to be more progressive and men showed a
'better attitude" than women.
MesWaff strte
(c) Resistance points were identified and the attitude-based segmentation used to arrive
at profile of groups on the resistance points. For example, the resistant group was
more likely to believe that "god gives children" and that "wtradition should be
followed."
(d)  Message stategy should, it was recommended, convert reislance points by using
thiem to motivate desired behavior. For exmple, messages based on the uaditions,
custms and history of the people could be used to inject a sense of prde
conceming the women of Rajastan.
(e) Among the younger groups, it was found that appeals hinging on modernity were
likely to work better.
(f)  The thrust areas that emerged were: delay mariage, delay the first child, space
subsequent births, limit overall family size; among MCHI issues, the ones that would



169                             Annexl
need emphasis are: colostrum, safe delivery and immunization.
wdia natgy
(g) while the study did not probe media behavior in depth, it did conclude that
interpersonal communication by health functionaries was low for all groups and
discussion of family even lower.
BENEFICIARY NEEIDS ASSESSMENTS
28.       In order to determine whether the tribal and other special groups in Rajasthan,
Karnataka and Assam would require specific strategies to cater to them, a services of studies was
conducted in these states as part of project preparation. The major findings pertaining to
difference between tribals and non-tribals obtained from these investigations are summarised
below:
29.       A two-phase study of tribal (Bhil, Meena, Garassiya, Gameti and others) and non-
tribal men and women in the reproductive age band of 15-45 years was carried out by a
professional research agency during the period June to October 1993. The first phase was a
qualitative, exploratory series of group discussions and depth interviews, while the second
consisted of structured interviews on a much larger sample, Lata from which were collected from
Sirohi, Udaipur and Dungarpur districts.
30.       Similar data on the migratory populations of the state are expected early in the first
year of the project; because of the migratory behavior of these groups, data collection has to be
extended over several months. Key findings reflecting differences between tribals and non-
tribals are described.
Marruae and Child Birth
(a) Tribal women marry at a younger age than non-tribals: 16.7 compared to 18 years;
(b) tribal men appear to be helping in the delivery of children, unlike non-triabl, for
whom the role is assigned to female relatives and local dais;
(c) some tribals reported that no medicine was applied to the cord after delivery.
Child Ca
(a) Non-tribals showed a higher level of awareness of immunisation, with some tribes
showing levels that were particularly low;



170                              Anne 1
(b) a higher proportion of non-tribals had had their youngest child immunised;
(c) the duration for which a child was exclusively breastfed was slightly longer for
tribals than for non-tribals, although there were no differences with respect to giving
the child colostrum or solid food.
(a) despite experiencing the problems resulting from large families, tribals did not
recognize the need for limiting family size as much as non-tribals did;
(b) more non-tribals were aware of sterilization, although the proportions in both groups
were high (94% and 88%, respectively);
Health seeldn behavior
(a) Given the availability of allopathic, homeopathic and the indigenous system, a
higher proportion of non-tribals were aware of the availability of allopathic
ueatment;
0b)  for some types of illnesses, such as epilepsy and convulsions, tribals are likely to
always prefer the indigenous doctor as the first recourse, while non-tnbals may try
aliopathy as much as the 'bhopa";
(c) 54 per cent of the respondents expessed the view that aPHC was not easily
accessible and that long distances and long waiting periods had to be suffered to
avail of their services. Given that tribals live in isolated hamlets off the main road,
the responses are more likely to be indicating their views;
(d)  probably because of the problem of accessibility, a significantly higher proporton
of tribal respondents had consulted a doctor outside the village than non-tribals.
Ass=
31.       An investigation similar to that carried out in Rajasthan has been under way in
Assam during the latter part of 1993. Ten districts (Kokrajhar, 3oalpara, Xmrup, Darang,
Marigaon, Kaibi Anglong, North Cchar Hills, Lahimpur, Jorhat and Dhemaji) with tib
population have been covered. The final report is expected by the end of January 1994; findings
based on preliminary analysis are described.



171                             Annex 16
Gmkbgrog          e
(a)  the incidence of encephalitis was found to be higher in the tribal population in two
districts;
(b)  traditional herbal medicines are used to a greater extent by tribals in hiUly areas,
where accessibility to health centers is poor;
(c) the attribution of chicken pox, measles and psychiatric problems to supernatural
powers is more prevalent among tribals;
(d)  cure for problems such as snake and dog bites is sought from ISM by tribals;
(e) use of alcohol appeared to be greater among tribals.
EBL_an lm
(t) female sterilisation appears to be more popular among tribals than non-tribals;
32.       The data available for Kamatala come from the studies conducted by two different
organisations, the State Family Welfare Bureau of the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare
Serices and a private consultancy firm (STE). Because of the very different methodologies
employed, comparison and consolidation of the findings is difficult, particularly since STEM's
results are presented without cuiaparison of tribal and non-tribal response, and there is variation
in the unit of analysis from respondents to villages. They covered a sample of tribal population
in four districts (Chitradurga, Dakshin Kannada, Kodagu and Mysore) and non-triLals in these
and six additional districts (Bellary, Chikmagaur, Hassan, Mandiya, Shimoga and Uttar
KaMnad). The DHFWS carried out a qualitative study in the four districts of Uttar Kannad,
Dakdhin Kannad, Kodagu and Mysore dunng September - October 1993. Against the limitations
mentioned earlier, the following picture has been extraued from these studies.
En*rom da
(a)  The percentage of non-tnbal communities with borewells is substantially higher than
that in tribal villages. The latter rely more on open wells;
(b)  while almost all non-tribal respondents reported their villages as having electricity,
"four out of ten" tribal vfllages were described as not being electrified;
(c)  a higher proportion of non-tribal villages were reported to be connected by tar road,
while the prcentage was substantially higher for tribal villages when the connection



172                             Agex 16
was a mud road.
(d) about 80 ,er cent of tribals stated that their villages were not covered by ICDS,
while the corresponding figure for non-tribals was only 20 per cent.
Availablfty of health and FP services
(e) The TBA appears to be more available in non-tribal villages, while tribals seem to
report a greater presence of the health guide;
(f) while half the non-tribal resndents reported that their village was 'covered' by
a sub-center, the percentage of tribal village reporting this was substaniy
smaller;
(g)  mobile tribal health units, operated by government and NGOs, provide service in
a manner not available in non-tribal area, but frequent breakdowns awid seasonal
disruptions do not enable sustined service delivery;
h) the geographical area to be covered by an ANM seems to be far greater for tibal
areas: one example reported an average of 5.4 sq.kms area for a non-tribal sub-
center compared to 45 sq.kms for a tribal one.
(i) usage of IUDs and pills appeared to be lower among tribals, while that of 'herbal
contraceptives' was more widespread, although this could not be confirmed;
(j) awareness of vasectomy among thibals was lower.
MCisLisues
(k)  ANC visits by ANMs appeared to be more common for tribals;
O)  tribals resort to prayers in the belief that pain during delivery will be lessened;
(m) the traditional position for delivery, squatting, is prefenred by tribals;
(n)  while there were no differences found in the use of colostrum, trbals were
motivated by an age-old tradition in this regard;
(o)  tribals believe that 'milk in the breast of the mother is always meant for the
offspring."



173                              Annx 1
lIues concernng health delivery
(p)  while there are no differences concerning when help is sought, tnbals tend to come
to the government system a bit later because they have been seeking treatment from
their own indigenous system first;
(q)  preference for home remedies is much higher among tnbals;
UtiUsation of health facilities
(r)  tnbals were reported as relying more on a pnvate doctor than non-tnbals, regadless
of whether it was sickness, immunisation or FP services;
(s)  corespondingly, utilisation of the sub-center by tribals was less than for non-tribals,
although this was not as marked in the case of PHC utilisation;
(t)  compared to non-tribals, tnbals were much more likely to be seeling services for
TB, malaria, diarrhoeal disease, scabies and worms;
(u)  there was, not surprisingly, a marked difference in the amount tribals were willing
to pay every month for 'complete health coverage for their families' compared to
non-tribals - Rs. 5 against Rs. 25. However, while all tribals were willing to pay,
almost half the non-tribals were against it.



174                              Annx 17
Strategies For Improving Family Welfare Services to Tribal and Migratory Groups
Assam. Rajasthan and Karnataka
1.        Although specific programs aimed at improving the conditions of tribals and other
groups have been adopted by the Government of India and various states since the 1950s, their
special needs persist. It is, therefore, necessary to identify responses to address these special
needs in the delivery of family welfare services. It is this set of responses that constitutes a
tribal strategy in each state. The strategies in all states will be continually refined and revised
as more and more information and feedback comes in, but their main outlines are clear and
unlikely to change significantly.
2.        As revealed by the findings of the assessment studies (Annex 14) the overall health
and family planning status of these groups is generally worse, though usually in a global, non-
focused way, with no special and unusual health conditions that demand major changes in the
normal range and content of Family Welfare services. Beliefs and practices related to health and
fertility behavior are usually also more dominated by traditional views and customs than in the
non-tribal population, though *._;e appears to be general acceptance of the principles of MCH
and family planning. Relatedly, access to health and Family Welfare services, including IEC,
tends systematically to be worse for population than non-tribal groups.
3.        There are two key reasons underlying these tribal - non-tribal differences. First,
tribal groups tend almost invariably to live in scattered hamlets in geographically remote places.
Whether it is the rocky, hilly terrain of Udaipur, or the densely forested areas of Koday, or the
hills of North Cachar, poor general accessibility is a miajor reason for the poorer health and
Family Welfare status of tribal populations and their less modernized beliefs and practices in
these areas. Thus the foundation of all the state strategies is a special effort to improve access
by tribal groups to Family Welfare services. The second reason is cultural identity - the
collective sense of self among these groups and their determination that it should be preserved.
As population outside tribal areas has grown, so has the pressure on their land and the real or
perceived threat of loss of identity. This, in conjunction with the emergence of political
leadership in several areas of the country, has strengthened the need to maintain the way of life
that they see as 'our own.' These tendencies have been reinforced by the isolation and
inaccessibility of tribal groups referred to above, which has helped to preserve their disthict
culture and ancient beliefs and practices. Thus another element of all strategies is the
development and implementation of Family Welfare IEC programs which are customized to
tribal cultural conditions.
4.          Thus, although tnbal strategies may vary across states according to their individual
characteristics, there are three common strands running through the responses formulated by
them. These are:
(a)  the introduction of greater mobility into the health delivery system to cope with the



175                             AnnexR17
accessibility issue; this will include service delivery (mobile vans, boats), enhanced
outreach capacity (camps, mobility for the ANM in the form of bicycles, mopeds,
extra travel allowance etc.) and IEC (all the above plus video vans and camel carts);
(b) the implementation of IEC strategies based on the beliefs and practices of these
groups (including the use of the indigenous bhopa or ..aditional healer, sensitization
of ground-level functionaries for more effective interpersonal communication); and
(c)  the use of community-based systems (women's groups, health promotersllink
workers, and NMOs) to establish gater rapport between the health delivery system
and these communities.
5.        Specific aspects of sttegies in each state are now described.
RAJATH
6.        Tribal groups form 12 percent of Rajasthan's population, and are mainly located in
the hilly and forested southern districts of the state. Migratory groups, who make up around two
percent of the population, live in the westernmost desert districts. The state's strategy for
migratory groups is still to be finalised following completion of the longitudinal baseline study
over the annual migratory cycles. However the strategy for both groups must necessarily be
based on the recognition that the hostile terrain inhabited by the migratory populations of the
western districts, and the inaccessibility of tribal hamlets in southem districts, call for special
attention. Pending the availability of data on migratory groups, the following elements have
been formulated by the state for a strategy covering both groups:
(a)  an operations research study in the inaccessible areas of two westem districts to
examine the costs and benefits of mobile clinics. Based on detailed planning at the
local level, four mobile clinics, operated by NGOs, each staffed by a doctor and
nurse and adequately equipped, will be deployed over the first two years of the
project The vans will travel on a twice - a - month fixed-visit schedule and will
also conduct IEC activities;
(b) hired camel carts will be used to cover scattered hamlets along the route of the
mobile clinic, visiting them a few days before the van to give advance publicity and
to carry out other IEC campaigns;
(c)  a 3camp approach" will be adopted on an experimental basis in two districts to
reach remote areas or to fill gaps in subcenters where no staff have been available.
These one-day camps will provide a comprehensive range of preventive and some
curative services, as well as IEC;
(d)  innovative IEC measures will be used, including the cooption of the tribal 'ojha



176                              Annex 17
into understanding, interpreting and transmitting to the community appropriate
family welfare messages;
(e) for the migratory populations, on a experimental basis, a joint effort with animal
husbandry agencies will be undertaken to provide EEC to these groups in animal
markets and where fodder and veterinary services are normally provided along their
migratory routes;
7.        Tribal groups make up 16 percent of Assam's population, and predominate in many
areas. Their political influence in the state is significant, much more so than in any other state.
Indeed, Assam is in the unique position of having established autonomous elected goveming
councils in the two dominantly tribal hill districts of Karbi Anglong, North Cachar Hills and is
in the process of creating a third in the still-insecure district of Bodoland. These District
Development Councils are almost entirely tribal in membership.
8.        Consequently, the state has developed and implemented an unusually comprehensive
tribal development plan with special earmarked funds, and this includes a substantial Family
Welfare infrasucue with coverage norms adapted to more scattered settlement patterns. Tribal
groups living in the plains are generally very little disadvantaged in this respect relative to the
non-tribal neighbours among whom they are dispersed, and do not suffer from extreme isolation
or inaccessibility. Assam's tribal strategy therefore concentrates on improving access to Family
Welfare to tribal hill populations in Karbi-Anglong and North Cachar Hills districts, which live
in scattered and shifting hamlets in forested and hilly terrain with very poor road and transport
networks, plus tailormade IEC efforts for all tribal populations. Major elements of the strategy,
which in places overlaps with the general project strategy for the whole state, include:
(a) provision of additional sub-centers and other facilities such as FRUs in any
underserved tribal areas (as for underserved areas throughout the state under the
project), possibly using traditional construction methods for sub-centres in
particularly inaccessible areas and establishing community maintenance systems
(b)  provision of mobile van clinics offering Family Welfare services and out-patient
care, operating out of CHCs or hospitals with regular schedules and itineraries, to
cover particularly remote areas in Karbi-Anglong and N.C. Hills districts
(c) increased mobility for FW field workers who have to travel long distances through
the revolving loan fund for vehicles.
(d) use of NGOs in tribal areas, where available, to supplement FW program efforts irt
service delivery and IEC



177                             Anne 17
(e)  experimentation with innovative approaches to service delivery in remote areas, in
full partnership with the District Development Councils, through formation of
district plans drawn up after consultation and participation from community
leaderships and local FW workers; these could include experimentation with sub-
center siting in spots where large populations gather, such as marketplaces,
adaptation, after study of current constraints on recruitment and retention of local
tribal girls as ANMs, of ANM qualifications, training and living and working
conditions to improve recruitment and retention rates, similar study of how to attract
and hold locally-born doctors, construction and maintenance of access paths to sub-
centres by communities etc.
(t)  heavy use of community linkage schemes, including the WHP and MSS schemes
(Annex 10) and links with traditional healers, particularly in the remotest areas
where sub-centers may be difficult to reach and the WHPs or traditional healers
might be traned to take on extra duties
(g)  development of IEC messages, materials and activities which are tailored to the
culture and conditions of the tribal groups, and make full use of their social and
leadership networks, including the District Development Councils.
KARNATAK
Tribal groups make up about 4 percent of Karnataka's population, dispersed all over
the state in a large number of disparate groups. They fall into two rather different categories.
The first category consists of more modernised groups who, as in the Assam plains, have to a
Large extent integrated themselves into the general populaton and do not differ greatly in their
health and Family Welfare stus and access. The second is made up mainly of non-modemised
tibes classified as primitive tribes, many of whom are hill forest-dwellers who have now been
resetted by the state outside the forest areas. Health and Family Welfare con.ditions tend to be
poor among this category of tribal group, again due in large part to their isolation and low socio-
economic status. Efforts have been made by the state, under its Tribal Sub-Plan and a set of
tribal development projects, to set up a network of social services for these groups, including
a health and Family Welfare infrastructure. The state has worked effectively with NGOs in this
area, utilising them as agents to deliver health and Family Welfare services.
Karnataka's tribal stategy under the project, like the Tribal Sub-Plan and tribal
development projects focuses largely on these worse-off groups. Due to the multiplicity of
groups and the recency of the new data on them collected in the 1991 census, the Beneficiary
Needs Assessment described in Annex 14 is considered only as a first step allowing an outline
of the strategy to be prepared. The first step under the strategy will therefore be:
(a)  on the basis of disaggregated 1991 census data, expected to be available shortly,
identify tribal pockets in every district and cover them adequately in the project



178                              Annex 17
baseline survey, plus detailed beneficiary and communication needs assessment. this
information will be used to prepare a finalised, detailed and comprehensive tribal
strategy
In the meantime, the outline strategy includes the following elements, which again
focus on improving access to services and customised IEC:
(b)  establishment of mobile health teams, based at PHCs, CHCs or hospitals, which will
make regular visits to areas identified as having the worst health conditions and
provide Family Welfare and outpatient services
(c)  increased coverage of inaccessible hamlets by selecting and training 100 tribal girls
(20 per year) as ANMs on a ratio of one per area of 500 population, under
supervision and management by NGO groups; to accommodate local cultural
conditions, the emphasis at first would be more on health and nutrition than family
planning
(d)  development of IEC messages, materials and activities which are tailored to the
culture and conditions of each tribal groups
(e)  development of further innovative approaches to service delivery and IEC for
individual tribal pockets on the basis of the detailed census and survey data
described above.
In addition, it is expected that the provision of greater mobility tu FW field staff
through the revolving loan fund for vehicles would also be of particular benefit to FW staff
woridng in these tribal areas, and that the project's program for involving NGOs more in Family
Welfare service delivery and IEC would include support to additional efforts by NGOs in tribal
areas, since this has been their area of greatest involvement to date.



179
ANNEX 18
DedW Cost TAbles
Table 4.1 - Cost By Component
at=" Mu  )                                                    v. %     %rtOa
COPN                                                                                           Fak  Bw
Ladl    Fnam          Ttdal      LO1    FLen          Towl    ExChane    Cas
Stenthen Health & F.W. SWer  Deliy            1,559.83    139.15    1,698.98      46.0        4.1      50.1        8%         s%
lmpove QualityofF.W. Serices                   714.06      30.78     744.84       21.1         .9      22.0       4%         23%
lncreagDemandfor F.W. Servces                  339.19       8.83     341.02        10.0        .3       10.3      3%         11%
Management I        n276.92                                21.00     297.92        8.2         .6       8.         7%        9%
lnnovazive Scheme                              134.55       2.76      137.31       4.0         .1       4.1        2%        4%
Totad BASELIE COSTS                            31024.55     202.52   3,227.07       89.2        6.0      95.2        6%       100I
Physical Contingencies                         244.43      20.25     264.68        7.2         .6       7.l        8%        8%
Price Contnene                                 835.52      825       918.06         .2         .7        .8       78%         1%
TOIWPROJECf  CO1                                4,104.49    305.32    ' .'.81       96.6        7.2      103.6       7%        109%
Table 4.2 - Cost by Categories of Expenditure
(Rapt. MIie.                      (JMIUl                      %        % TOal
Foteg       Bar
Loa    Frdga          Teal       Local   Feala        TOWl    Exhange    cow
Inyslsen Coats
Civil Wab (New)                              920.40     102.27   1,022.67       27.2        3.0      30.2       1O%        32%
Civi Works (Itehb & UPgra)                   256.31      28.48     284.79        7.6         .8       8.4       I0%        9%
Furnu                                        102.78      10.17     112.95        3.0         .3       3.3       9%         3X
Equipmen                                     201.60      27.49     229.09        5.9         .8       6.8       12%        7%
Vehild                                       119.97      11.33     133.0         3.5         .4       3.9       10%        4%
Boos                                          10.86U      1.21      12.09         .3         .0        .4       10%         -
Traniegh   Ml                                 49.53          -      49.53        1.5                   1.5                 2%
[EC Mateil & Ativire                         144.88          -     144.88.       4.3                  4.3        -         4%
efalth Kits                                   43.65       4.85      48.0         1.3         .1       1.4       10%        2%
Local TM&nin Servi                           254.69          -     254.69        7.5          -       7.5                  8%
ILocI ConlaInts                               33.30          -      33.30        1.0          -       1.0        -         1%
Innvative Schemes                            111.39          -     111.39        3.3                  3.3                  3%
Vehiclb   r Field Staff (PART 2c)            167.80                167.80        4.9                  4.9        -         5%
GramsntoNGOs                                  70.003                70.00        2.1                  2.1                  2%
GramtstoPhartmv    ituttn                      3.00                  3.00          1                   .1  -       .-
_    Fdloh bps                                15.06          *      15.04         .4          -        .4        *
TOtWl Invutmnet Costs                          2,505.2     187.8    2,693.0      73.90       5.54     79.44        7%        83%
Roennre  Cob
Salari of Additn  Staff                      146.29                146.29        4.3                  4 4.3      -         5%
Honowrium to Coammnity Volues                 95.33                 95.33        2.6          -       2.6        -         3%
T.A./D.A. of Staff                             8.35                  8 8.35       .2          *         .2
Contaahles                                    50.00       5.56      55.56        1.5         .2        1.6      10%        2%
Civi Works Malt                               55.14                 55.14        1.6                  1.6                  2%
Equipmen & Fleet Operdin and Mais             81.63         1- 8.63              2.4          -       2.4                  3%
Medictnes& Medical Maal                       82.58       9.18      91.76        2.4         .3       2.7       10%        3%
Tot Reenrant Co                                 519.3       14.7       534.1      15.32      0.43      15.75       3%        17S
Toad BASLINE COS18                              3,024.55    202.52   3,227.07       89.2        6.0       95.2       6%        IGO%
Phyial Contgnc                               244.43      20.25     264.68        7.2         .6       7.8       8%         8%
Prti  Cnnecles                               8U35.52     82.54     918.06         .2         .7        .8       76%         IS
Ttw PROIECTCOSIS                                4,104.49    305.32   4,409.8l        96.6        7.2     103.8       7%        IO9%



180
Annex 18
Details of Expenditures - Assam State
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(Costs in Rs. Millions)
Foreign
Dasm Colst                                         Exhnge
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    200l         Tota       %      Amount
Civil Works (New)                        16.2    38.9    55.1    64.8    58.3    45.3    45.3         323.8     10%        32.4
Civil Works (Rehab & Upgrade)            7.4    17.8    25.2    29.7    26.7    20.8    20.8          148.4     10%        14.8
Furniture                                1.8      4.4      6.2     7.3      6.6     5.1      5.1       36.5      9%         3.3
Equipmnt                                 5.2    12.6    17.8    21.0    18.9    14.7    14.7          105.0     12%        12.6
Vehicles                                 7.6    15.1    22.7    15.1        7.6     7.6        -       75.6     10%         7.6
Books                                    0.2      0.5      1.0     1.5      1.8      1.8     1.8        8.7     I0%         0.9
Trainin Material                         0.1      0.2     OA       0.6      0.7     0.7      0.7        3.3         -         -
JBC Material & Activities                0.8      2.4     4.8      6.8      8.4     8.4      8.4       39.9        -
Health Kits                              0.1      0.2     0.5      0.7      0.8     0.8      0.8        3.9      10%        0.4
LocalTrain4Services                      2.0      5.9    11.9    16.8    20.8    20.8    20.8          98.9                   -
Local ConsAultans                        0.1      0.2      0.5     0.7      0.8     0.8      0.8        4.0
ave   hemes                              0.1      0.2      OA      0.5      0.6     0.6      0.6        3.0         -         -
Vd fesobr FeldStaff(PART2c)               1.1     3.2      6.3     9.0    11.1    11.1    11.1         52.8
GrantatoNMOs                             0.1      0.4      0.8     1.2      1.5      1.5     1.5        7.0         -         -
Granta to Phannacy nstinnes              0.1      0.2      0.4     0.5      0.6     0.6      0.6        3.0         -         -
elowships                                0.1      0.3     0.6      0.9      1.1     1.1      1.1        5.0        -          -
Total_ vstment Coss                        42.8   102.5   154.5   176.9   166.2   141.7   134.1         918.8       8%       71.9
RenmTent Cost                                 -       -        -                -                '          -          
Salaries of Additional Staff             0.6      2.4      3.9     5.1      6.0     6.0      6.0       30.0
HonoramiuntoCommunityVolumners           0.1      0.6      1.0     1.2      1.5     1.5      1.5        7.3
T.A./D.A. of Staff                       0.1      0.2     0.3      OA       0.5     0.5      0.5        2.5
Consumables                              0.7      2.0     4.0      5.7      7.1     7.1      7 1       33.7     10%         3.4
Civil Works Maim                           -      0.9      1.8     2.6      4.0      4.0     4.2       17.6         -
Equipme  & Fleet Operation and Maim      0.5      1.4     2.8      4.0      5.0     5.0      5.0       23.7
Medicnes & Medical Material              0.0      0.1     0.2      0.3      0.4     0.4      0.4        1.9     10%         0.2
Ttl R         dcurat Costs                  2.0     7.6    14.0    19.5    24.4    24.4    24.6         116.6       3%        3.6
TdoalDSUW COSTS                             44.8   110.1   168.6   196A    190.7   166.1   158.7    1,035.4          7%        75.5
Physal Contingncies                      4.3    10.3    15.5    17.7    16.7    14.3    13.5           92.3      8%         7.5
Pricomingencies                           1.8    12.6    31.1    49.2    60.3    63.8    72.4         291.3      10%       30.4
Tol PROJECT COSTS                           50.9   133.0   215.2   263.3   267.7   244.2   244.7    1,419.0           8%      113.4
Taes                                     3.3      8.2    12.8    15.1    14.3    12.4    12.1          78.3         -         -
ForignExchange                           4.8    12.2    19.0    22.2    20.7    17.5    17.1          113.4



181
Annex 18
Details of E=pedithures - Karnsatnk Sta
Expendit  Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(Costs in Rs. Millions)
- 5    199       19S7    199      1999    2900    2001       Toal       %      Amount
hCwdutenCub
Civ Works (New)                          19.7    47.2    66.9    787       70.8    55.1    55.1       393.5      10%       39.3
Civi Work (Rdub & Upgrade)               3.9      9.4    13.3    15.7    14.1    11.0    11.0          78A       10%        7.8
Furniure                                 3.0      7.3    10.3    12.2    11.0       8.5      8.5       60.9      9%         53
Equizmcut                                3.8      9.1    12.9   1.2    13.7    10.6    10.6           75.9     12%         9.1
Vehicles                                 0.9      1.8     2.6      1.8      0.9     0.9        -        8.8     10%         0.9
books                                    0.0      0.0     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1        0.5     10%         0.1
TaIiong Matl                             0.2      0.5      1.0     1.A      1i       1.8     1.8        8.5                   -
IEC Matei & Acdvtids                     0.8      2.3     4.5      f.4      7.9     7.9      7.9       37.6         -         -
Healft Kis                               0.4      1.2     2.3      3.3      4.1     4.1      4.1       19.3     10%         1.9
Local TraiingSevices                     0.9      2.6     5.2      7.3      9.0     9.0      9.0       43.0                   -
lcal Conslat                             0.3      0.9      1.8     2.5      3.1     3.1      3.1       14.7
hnwvativc Sch4e                          1.5      4.6     9.1    12.9    15.9    15.9    15.9          75.9                   -
VdidcesforFieldStaff(PART2c)             2.1      6.3    12.6    17.9    22.1    22.1    22.1         105.0        -          -
Gran to NOOs                                                                  -                -
orants to Pharmacy hb es-                           -       -        -        -       -        -          -                   -
Pellowdhp                                0.1      0.3     0.6      0.9      1.1     1.1      1.1        5.0         -         -
Tdoalisment cobs                           37.5    93A    143.3   176.1   175A    151.1   1502          927.0       7%       64.6
Reawret Cod                                         '                          '                                       
Salaries of Addiinal Steff               0.9      3.5      5.7     7.5      8.8     8.8      8.8       44.2                   -
HonorarnumtoConmunity Vouaes             1.8      7.0    IIA      15.0    17.6    11.6    17.6         88.0
T.A./D.A. of Staff                         -                                                   -          - -  -
Covsmables                               0.4      1.2     2.3      3.3      4.1     4.1      4.1       19.5     10%         1.9
Civl Works Mam                             -      1.4      2.8     4.2      6.4      6A      6.7       27.9         -         -
EqulPMe & Pfl operaaoanimd O             0.8      2.5      5.0     7.1      8.7     8.7      8.7       41.5
Medcm   Mical Mal                                   -       -        -        -       -        -          -         -         -
Ttda Reamrnt Coa                            3.9    15.6    27.3    37.0    45.7    45.7    45.9         221.1       1%        1.9
TotaBASEL=INCOSTS                           41.4   109.0   170.6   213.1   221.1   196.8   196.2    1,148.1          6%        66.6
Physc Co _igcies                         3.7      9.2    13.9    17.0    16.8    14.4    14.3          89.4      8%         6.7
Prce Contendce                           1.6    12.2    30.8    52.3    68.5    73.9    87.8          327.1      8%        27.3
TOWt PROECT COSIS                           46.7   130.3   215.2   282.5   306.4   285.1   298.3    1,564.5           6%      100.5
Taxes                                    2.8      7.3    11.4    14.4    14.4    12.4    12.9          75.5         -         -
ForPig Excaw                             3.9    10.2    15.7    19.6    18.9    15.8    16.5          100.5



182
Anntex l8
Details of Expeditvres - Ra'siethsn State
Expediture Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(Costs in Rs. Milons)
Fai
DmeCnd                                           Ebngem
1995    196    159?    1996    199L9    2        U6        Tdal       %     Amou_t
1h    mm Costs
civU Wors (Now)                        15.3    36.6    51.9    61.1    55.0    42.7    42.7       305.4      10%       30.5
CivlWouksReb&Upgack)                    2.9     7.0      9.8    11.6    10.4      8.      8.1      S7.9      10%        5.8
P.mduare                                0.8     1.9      2.6     3.1     2.8      2.2     2.2       IS.5      9%        IA
Fquipment                               2.4     5.8      8.2     9.6     8.7      6.7     6.7      48.2      12%        5.8
Vcildes                                 4.9     9.8    14.7      9.8     4.9      4.9       -      49.0      10%        4.9
Docks                                   0.1     0.2     0.3      0.5     0.6      0.6     0.6       2.9      10%        0.3
Taii  Maal                              0.8     2.3     4.5      6.4     7.9      7.9     7.9      37.7         -
[ECMazerlah&Acclic     *                1.3     4.0      8.1    11A     14.1    14.1    14.1       67.3         -
ieal  1Us                               0.5     1.       3.0     4.3     5.3     5.3      5.3      25.3      10%        2.5
Loeal Tainng Sevi                       2.3     6.8    13.5    19.2    23.7    23.7    23.7        112.8        -         -
La  Cosultants                          0.3     0.9      1.8     2.5     3.1      3.1     3.1      14.7         -         -
I        Smovadv_Sdiemas                0.7     2.0      3.9     5.5     6.8     6.8      6.8      32.5
Veu   Ar Field Saff(PART2c)             0.2     0.6      1.2     1.7     2.1     2.1      2.1      10.0
GrantsroNGOs                            1.3     3.8      7.6    10.7    13.2    13.2    13.2       63.0
Gra  to Phumay lutumo                         -            -               -                      -
Felbwsp                                 0.1     0.3     0.6      0.9     1.1      1.1     1.1       5.0         -
Tal4ld bnawm tu C                        33.7    83.3   131.8   158.3   1597   142.6   137.7         847.2      6%       51.2
Rewnot Cotds                                                 -                        -       -                             -
Sala eotAddikmlStdf                     IA      5.8      9.4    12.3    14.4    14.4    14.4       72.2         -         -
Ionrm to Commmity Volnr --   
T.AJD.A. o0Stff                         0.1     0.5      0.8     1.0     1.2      1.2     1.2       5.8         -         -
C      _mumnble                         0.0     0.1      0.3     0.4     0.5      0.5     0.5       2.4      10%        0.2
Cii Work maw                              -     0.5      1.0     IA      2.2      2.2     2.3       9.6         -         -
equp    m & Feet Operation ad Maint     0.3     1.0      2.0     2.8     35       3.5     3.5      16.4         -
Medices & Medial Mrl                    1.8     5.4    10.8    15.3    18.9    18.9    18.9        89.9      10%        9.0
TW Re1mWU   Cub                           3.7    13.2    24.2    33.2    40.7    40.7    40.8        196.4      5%        9.2
Tdd  UASEE  COSTS                          37A     96.6   156.0   191.5   20D.4   183.3   178.5   t.043.6         6%       60.4
Phyi  Continges                         3.3     83      13.0    15.3    15.6    13.9    13.4       83.0       7%        6.0
PriceContingaies                        1.5    10.8    28.2    47.2    62.3    69.3    80.3       299.7       8%       24.9
TCmpRO     SIECST06                        42.2   115.7   197.2   254.2   278.3   266.5   2.2    1.426.2          6%       91.4
Tams                                    2.4     6.3    10.1    123      12.3    11.1    11.0       65.4         -
Fog Exchane                             3.5     9.0    14.4    17A      17.1    15.1    15.0       91A          -



183
Annexl
DonI o andtrs & D
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(Coss in Rs. Mllons)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vdgp
s995    1996   1N97    I9         1999    2009    2S         Ta         %      Amma
kvabimt coa
Civil Wats (New)                        51.1   122.7   173.9   204.5   184.1   143.2   143.2   1,022.7           10%      102.3
Civil Wotk5 (Reinb   Upgrade)           14.2    34.2    48.4    57.0    51.3    39.9    39.9          284.8     10%        283
FIture                                   5.6    13.6    19.2    22.6    20.3   1I.8    15.8           112.9      9%        10.2
Bqupme                                  I1.      27.5    38.9    45.8    41.2    32.1    32.1         229.1     12%        27.5
Veicelsa                                13.3    26.7    40.0    26.7    13.3    13.3           -      133.3     10%        13.3
Vdtlclfor lFd9 Staff(PAiRT2c)            3.4    10.1    20.1    28.5    35.2    35.2    35.2          167.8
Dock                                     0.2      0.7      1.5     2.1      2.5     2.5      2.5       12.1     10%         1.2
T g aterwIl                               1.0     3.0     5.9      84      10.4    10.4    10.4        49.S
IBC Mataria & Actvies                    2.9      8.7    17.4    24.6    30.4    30.4    30A          144.9                   -
Realib KIts                              1.0      2.9      5.8     8.2    10.2    10.2    10.2         48.5     10%         4.8
LocalTTtablnlSavices                     5.1    15.3    30.6    43.3    S3.5    S3.5    53.5          254.7
Lol Comula                               0.7      2.0     4.0      5.7      7.0     7.0      7.0       33.3
Iovative Schms                           2.2      6.7    13A      18.9    23A      23A      23A       111.4
Gtams to NGOs                            IA      4.2     8.4    11.9    14.7    14.7    14.7          70.0        -          -
anumto Pbm alm aum                       0.1      02       0.4     0.5      0.6     0.6      0.6        3.0
Fiowdbp                                  0.3      0.9      1.8     2.6      3.2     3.2      3.2       15.0
*        11ala.rn cinia                   114.0   279.2   429.6   511.3   SOIA    435.4   422.1    2,693.0          7%      187.8
Recrnw Code
SablrieaofAddonalStaff                   2.9    11.7    19.0    24.9    29.3    29.3    29.3          146.3
Hon  axlum to Coaan ty Volutrs           1.9      7.6    12.4    16.2    19.1    19.1    19.1          93.3
T.A.D.A. of Staff                        0.2      0.7      1.1     IA       1.7     1.7      1.7        8.3
Comwnbles                                 1.1     3.3      6.7     9A      11.7    11.7    11.7        55.6     10%         5.6
Civil Works Maim                           -      2.8      5.5     8.3    12.7    12.7    13.2         55.1
Equpamm&PentOperatoaandMai                1.6     4.9     9.8    13.9    17.1    17.1    17.1          81.6
Medcie&MedIclMadrial                      1.8     5.5    11.0    15.6    19.3    19.3    19.3          91.8     10%         9.2
TOW  a*luz t com                            9.6    36.5    65.5    89.7   110.8   110.8   111.3         534.1       3%       14.7
TdcdAseBCOSS                                123.6   315.7   495.1   6D1.0   612.1   546.2   533A        3W7.1        6%       202S
Phydal Cend_ -18,11.3    27.8    42.4    50.3    49.1    42.5    41.2                                 264.7      8%        20.3
PricCongicies                            5.0    35.6    90.1   148.8   191.1   207.1   240.5          918.1      9%         2
Totl  RojUCTOSIS                            139.8   379.0   627.6   800.0   852.4   79S.8   815.2    4,409.8          7%      305.3
Tas                                      85      21.8    34.3    41.8    41.1    35.9    36.0         219.2
PFreip Uxcmg                            12.1    31A       49.1    59.1    56.7    48.4    48.5        305.3



184
Annex 19
Disbursement Accounts by Fhianciers
(Total Cost In US$ Mlion)
GOI                iDD                 TOW                Fer.  (IL Dow &
Amount       lb    A,_m        f     Am_              S       Et l     Td.N)      1I
CIvl Woks                                         4.28     10%       38.50     90%        4278      41%        4.67    35.12      2.9
Gran,  IlPeas.F ip &LoculCamltam                  0.75      5%       14.17     95%.       14.92     14%           -    14.92
Punur                                             0.74     20%        2.9      WS          3.69     4%         036      3.07      0.26
Eqpm &Heftblts                                    1.82     20%        7.29     SD%         9.12     9%         1.16    7.32       064
TllnIMarhIa& Boka                                 0.10      5%        1.92     95%         2.02      2%       0.04      1.        0.10
v'da                                              0.86    20%         3.43     SDS         4.29     4%         .46      3.52      0.30
MC mai & Acavil                                   0.95     20%        3.79     80%         4.74     5%            -    4.50       0.24
Hoewarluuto CuumultyVoutous                       0.74     26%        2.09     74%         2.13      3%           -    2.83
SalArofMAddoalo Staff                             1.19     26%        3.37     74%         4.56      4%           -    4.56
VdeiJoImw PANdStaff(PART2c)                       1.10    20%         4.39     80%         5S        5%           -    5.21       0.21
Camamabh                                          0.49     27%        1.35     7j%         1.84      2%        0.20     1.51       .33
MedIcu& MbdeI  Mterials                           0.81     27%        2.22    73%          3.04     3s        0.33      2.49      0.21
Equ1i_ilaFIetb opdoaMaint                         0.68     27%        1.87    73%          2.55     3%                 2.42       0.13
Clvi Wob maintnance                               0.49     2S%        1.24     72%         1.73      2%                 I.64      0.09
T.AJD.A. o(Stiff                                  0.27    100%           -        -        0.27     0%            -    0.27
Totdal                                               15.26     15%       8.58      83%       103I84    100%        7.23    91.26      5.35



185
ANNEX 19
Expenditure Accounts by Project Compoments
(Coss in US$ Millions)
Hea& _mo  Iwaiq  Swm
F.W.    QuRy    D_md for    F.W.                                      Wqd.l
Seric    olF.W.    J.W.         Prop.        areaC __
Dlwy   Sevi   sServi Me                      Selumed         ToTda    S
hm_ Cds
CIvU Wek (New)                           22.38     3.59           -        3.88        0.32       30.17    10.0C    3.
CIvi Waft tRobb & Upgrade)                4.88     3.34                    0.18                   8.40    10.00    06
Furnue                                    2.66     0.62                    0.6            -       333    10.00    0M
qulpzue.t                               3.11      0.30        1.77        1.33        02S        6.76    10.00    0.S
Vehiles                                   2.79     0.44        0.46        0.04        020         3.93    10.00    039
Books                                       _      0.36           -                       '       0.36    10.00    0.08
Talne MaeI                                   -     1.46           -           -           -        1.46    10.00    0.15
MC Mala & AcdviWes                           -        -        4.27           -                   4.27    10.00      A43
Heft Kis                                  1.41     0.02                                   -        1.43    10.00    0.14
Locd  Tinin Savices                          -     7.32                    0.19           -       751       5.00    0.38
1  Comatn_                                   -     0.13        0.05        0.80                   0.93      5.00    0.A
_a     e S-e                                          -           -                    329         3.29
Vdddiesb fo    d Staff(PART 2)            4.95        -           *           -           -       4.95    10.60     0.49
Grans toNGOs                                 -        -        2.06                                2.06        -
Grams to Pharmacy lsdt                                            _      0.09  -                   0.09
Felwshps                                     -     0.44           .                       -       0.44
WIeta Iedimn  0C0e                         42.18     18.11       8.62        6.48        4.05       79.44     8.70    6.93
3.mCOt                                                  -                                               .        .  
Slaies of AddJidal Staff                  0.10     2.45        033         1.43           -       4.32      5.00    0.22
Honeoarium to C   anly Vouers             2.30     0.01           -                       -       2.81
T.AJID.A of Staff                                  0.S         0.02        0.07           -       0.25    10.       0.02
Com _asbes                                0.75     0.42        0.02        0.45           -        I.o4    10.00    0.16
Civi WoYk main                            1.13     0.50           -           -                    1.63     5.00    0.08
Eipme & FleetOpeMn aMadIm                 0.45     0.33        1.28        0.36           -       2.41      5.00    0.12
Mecms & Media Mateal                      2.71        -           -           -                   2.71    10.00    0.27
Tldd Reeirnat Coe                           7.94     3.86        1.65        2.31           -       15.75     5.60    0.88
TdeBlASUNCOSIM                               50.12    21.97       10.27       83.9         4.65       95.19      .20    7.1
hyica Co _ngncIe                          4.65     1.61        0.74        0.74        0.Q8       7.81         -
Price Cont _cIes                          0.46     0.19        0.08        0.08        0.63       0.84      7.70    0.6
Tdal lOJEf COSTI                             55.23    23.76       11.08        9.61        4.16      103.84     7.60    7.87



186
Anne 12
Project Components by Year
(Base Costs in Rs. Million)
1995     1996     1997     1996     1999     200   2001       TOWal
SIt Im Humh& F.W. Srvice Divery                 74.4   183.9   277.1   324.5   312.6   267.8   258.7    1.699.0
ulrw Qtaity offP.W. Servkis                     23.7    64.3   105.9   134.7   146.3   135.6   134.3          744.8
hreaslirft Deaa4 for F.W. Srvices               10.0    26.9    47.7    61.4    69.4    67.0    65.5          S48.0
Mlanagemntpf    rent                            11.6    30.2    45.8    56.2    56.4    49.0    48.8          297.9
Innovative Schemes                               3.9    10.3    18.7    24.1    27.5    26.7    26.1          137.3
Totdl ASUEINK COSTS                              123.6   315.7   495.1   601.0   612.1   546.2   533.4    3;2,.1
lysldacairagalews                               11.3    27.8    42.4    50.3    49.1    42.5    41.2          264.7
PrIce ComningendIs                               5.0    35.6    9G.1   148.8   191.1   207.1   240.5          918.1
Totld PROIKCT CoS                                139.8   379.0   627.6   800.0   852.4   795.8   815.2    4.409.8



187
Annex12
Project Components by Finciers
(Tot Costs in US$ Million)
GOI                 RlD                TOal             For.   (xd. Dies &
Amou_        l     Amoent       %      Aumt          %           hL  Taxes)    Taxes
0 Sugengd  Healt & F.W. Service DDveqy             8.59   15.6%      46.64   84.4%        55.23   53.2%       4.97    46.74      3.52
bmprove Qualiy of F.W. Services                  2.80   11.8%      20.96   88.2%        23.76   22.9%       1.10    21.84      0.82
bnrasn Demand for F.W. Services                  2.03   18.3%       9.05   81.7%        11.08   10.7%       0.31    10.29      0.48
Managm n mprovement                              1.53   15.9%       8.08   84.1%         9.61    9.3%       0.75     8.38      ).48
hmovative SchQm                                  0.30    7.2%       3.86   92.8%        4.16    4.0%        0.10     4.00      0.06
To-al Dlb _rsaut                                  1S.26   14.7%      88.58   85.3%       103.84  100.0%       7.23    91.26      5.35



188
Annex I
Procurement Arrangements
C(otal Costs In US$ Mfllions)
.~  ~ ~ hun               ,gbo
W*_            llArd
VOWpSUUT      cdueuth.   Local          Direr      Fore
swan           Bg                               Aeog C d   _  N.S.F.    Tetal
CIVIL WORIKS
CivD Works                                     -           36.19         -           -         6.60        -        42.78
(S2.S7)                            (5.94)               (38.50)
GOODS
Veidces                                      3.99            -         0.30                                         4.29
'3.19)                    (0.24)                                      (3.43)
M?opos. Bkycles for Feld Staff                 -             -         5.48                                         5.48
(4.39)                                      (4.39)
FPuau                                                       2.71       0.98                     -          -        3.69
(217)      (0.79)                                       (2.9
Eqipmt & Healh Kits                            -            6.69       2.43          -          -                   9.12
(5.35)     (1.94)                                       (7.29)
Ttrsnl  Matcrtl & Booc                         -             -          1.51       0.15         -          -         1.67
(1.44)     (0.13)                           (1.57)
Cosbles                                        -             -          1.4         -           -          -        1.84
(1-35)                                      (1.35)
Mde     & Medis Matral                                                 3.04                     -          -        3.04
(2.22)
TECHNCAL ASSJANCE
Projec Prpatt  & laplmni.                                                          15.67                            15.67
S-o  clue Gram, Inatv Schm)                                                       (14.92)                          (14.92)
Pr*CePMPKram &lmplemeo                         .                                   1.30         -          -        1.30
St-,opM (Publy Seve)                                                              (1.04)                           (1.04)
lstzloa Do nat incd                            .             -           -         3.04         -          -        3.04
IEC & tain)                                                                        2.3S)                           (2.35)
MISCELLANEUS
Saaries of Additonal Staff                     -             -           -         4.56         -          -        4.56
(337)                           (3.37)
Hloorain to Commm_ty Voue                                    -           -         2.83         -          -        2.83
(2.09)                           (2.09)
T.A./D.A. of Staff                             -                                    -           -         027       0.27
Civi WorkaOpenasl&Mahi                                                             1.73         -          -        1.3
(1.24)                           (1.24)
Eqp & Flet Opmtien & Maint                     -             -           -         2.55         -          -        2.55
(187)                           (1sn
Total                                          3.99          45.S8       15.58      31.82       6.60       0.27      103.84
(3.19)       (40.0       (12.36)    (27.01)      (5.94)               (88.58)
Naot: FWig  n parentes me  repect eawm  fhneed by MDA (b)iw ofCMMenu)



189
AmEX 19
DA FSaW Year                Semester     CSmmulatie
$US Milon--
FY95
Ist (Jul94 - Dec 94)                    1.93           1.93          3.00            3.00
2nd (Jan 95 - Jun 95)                   1.93           3.86           0.37           3.37
FY96
Ist (Jul95 - Dec 95)                   4.91           8.78           4.30           7.66
2nd(Jan96-Jun96)                        4.91          13.69           4.30          11.96
FY97
Ist (Jul96 - Dec 96)                   7.76          21.44           6.49           18.45
2nd (Jan 97 - Jun 3a)                   7.76          29.20           6.49          24.94
FY98
lst (Jul97 - Dec 97)                   9.56           38.76          7.96           32.90
2nd (Jan 98- Jun 98)                    9.56          48.32           7.96          40.87
FY99
Ist (Jul 98- Dec 98)                   9.84          58.16           8.20           49.07
2nd (Jan 99 - Jun 99)                   9.84          68.00           8.20          57.27
FY200
lst (Ju 99 - Dec 99)                    8.96         76.96           7.08           64.35
2nd(Jan2000-Jun2000)                    8.96          85.92           7.08          71.43
FY2001
1st (Jul 2000 - Dec 2000)               8.96         94.88           7.08           78.51
2nd (Jan 2001 - Jun 2001)               8.96         103.84           7.08          85.58
FY2002
Ist (Jul 2001 - Dec 2001)               0.00         103.84           3.00          88.58



a ~   ~    ~      5     3               liii If  f              l|||              
- 9                                              2v;;{ 
3'0~~~~ ~~~~~                                      3BS3tj2
lt t = k > 0 0 S S 9 f t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iX _' _$ | _ | | _ iE ; _ ; 
3;~       _      _                             slsf          *jg __ 
I!~~ ~~ Ii----                                                 E



191                               Annex 19
CS   ASSAM
Cil W- W. New
cmkmw ~ ~ ~~mumdCs MA
37
C1%
- 2%CiW WaftR
3%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
Mc                                               1, 
..  .. __ ___. _V/80o



192                             Annex12
Recufrrt Costs: ASSAM
TA/DA & WHP
19/                               Staf
Consmuables/
Drep 2W,8%adMan
26%
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



193                                               AnwrJLi
IwMestnt Costs: ASSAM (Rupee Millions)
200        ------- .............. ...............-.---.......................................................
180         *Civil Wors New
0 ~~              ~           ~~~~~~ Civil Work
160 .                                                                             Re..ab.
/\  -- ¢    Furn./EquipiKits
140   
/~~~~~~~>                                           Vehicls
120                                    .........   -*---- Trn gjBoks
/ .JEC haterial
100   0..... -
80   *-----/                                                         L      i                7 §   +  X ¢ve-<  * X   h+* *  in+e
40                                .............
0
1        2        3         4        5        6         7



L                     9                      S                                           £                      Z                     I
0
................................                .            .            .001
.._=...- .                                                   .....       ...... ....                                                  o_
................................... -   . . . .  ...................... ...... . ..                     WS                              ot
................................................................... .......................... of
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*qpqo *w -j---   081m
........................ o.   ........ ............                      ............ ..L0
(uo!1np uodnF nsss :slo )n IWSAUJ
............................. .......................... . . . . ..... . . ..,     . . .   .. .                                         O
....................................................... ............ ........ .........  .............. . .  ........... ...........................   ;jOOt
. .......  .......................                                                                            MOZI
...........                                             ......    .  .   .  ...... .. ...    ..   ....................              09
..........I...............................---.---- qm-   -pA  ---   - -                                                       -             -   -j-IWD)  0  1
(uot, SS :swo3 Yuusasvul
61 xu"v 



195                                                                          An= 12
Recurrent Costs: ASSAM (Rupee Million)
Staff
35                                                                                   ............ ................... .........................--...........................
3 0                Build./Maint.
2 5                                                                  ..                                            ......     .......................... ........,3
*    Consumables/Drugs                                               _
25 ....  ;  
20  TI TADA & WHP
10  .w .. ...........                                          ........................................-.................................................... ...................................
I ....                            ....                             .. ...................    .......       ................................................................. ,;
1                        2                        3                         4                        5                        6                         7
Total Costs: ASSAM
600- . 
400- / s-
300- -_
200/- 
100
Recunrnt Cos6
1995                   1996                   1997                    1998                   1999                  2000                    2001



196                                             Annex 19
RAJASTHAN
fnvesentn Cosu: Rajas5ha
Civil Works New
36%
Civil Works Rehab.
2%                                                                                7%
IW S            _   __  _ 
5%
Tm&iBooks
I  -  | 11 -    I |1 I I-  7    0 



197                                 Annex 19
Rcurrent Costs: Rajasdian
TA/DA & WHP
3%
Consumables/
Drugs 47%0/



L                9                S                t
01
MU~~IjO9 ~UTq  ~~                                   *               -           - .-*--
0£
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................................ _ ............... ..............  -OZ
i~~111  .4o                                       X-          XI
wao p                       ..........      o                     . .. .......... .........                                        .........                    ...
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. X. .......................................................................                                                  ................. .. . .. ....... 
s|             w dm       arPP         ...........                      .......   . ...      ..    .............        ...      ..........                 .......... --  .- -OS
m    4BatlY4  s      n                                                            ._ ...........                                .......      ......................... ............    - 09
(uoqw d)UmB :sMD wuAIw
UUUUv                                                                                                    961



L                                         9                                         S                                                                                   £                                         Z
F                                          I____ -UiW -fi -0I--_--
01
...........................    .... _..                                                                  .......................                                                                   Sl
a................................. .....                                      .....................................    -^                                                                                  -           --                ;          _ sw   OZ
.................................. ........... ................---------:----'WD........ ......................................                                                     *     m      s    V                  -                            ......    OZ
.................. ................. ........ ....... .......... ....... ... .... ......                                                      .............           S                                                                            .......       O£
.............................. .................... . .                                     ...... 
1~~~~
(UObtM  usqlse.tekT :slso3 suaunsa u
L                                         9                                        S                                                                                   E                                                      
_                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
.......... . ....  ...................  ......................  .....  .....  ....  .. ...    .                                                                                         .... .....                                                              oz
................................ .............................................................................. .. .. . ......                                             .-.      ...............           .     ..... . ... ...... . ....... .. .......    /:.O£
.................................................................... .................. ........ ................ ...... .........                                                                                                                              .  t
MNrq-MPAiD---                                                               O
..............                                                                                        ..........-.....................-.. . .....                                                                                                 ...          0S
...................... ..................................... ,,z_.... ..........                                                                                          v      H       -A         W                                                          09
...................... .....................I....................                    ................................  ............  ...            ...                   . ..          N          P°l!D .                                                    OL
(uot.!1 **&dl) ueqmeh :S)soa l uounsmul
I1 in"U                                                                                                                                             661



^1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66    166
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
.~..
..... ... ... . .   .... 
...."".'-.".....                                                                            1
.*     . ....        . ....9.
.....~~~...... ... .    ... ... 
00g~~~~~~~~~~~
.........  ...........  ..........
.    .....................    .    ...................
.~~~~~~~~...............
.    . .    . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .   . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .



201                                  Annex 19
KARNATAKA
IwsnoCos. Kamtk
Civil Woks Now
42r
2%
Civil WoabRehab.
21%
16%
62oo V0%



202                                    Annex 12
Recunt Costs: Kamataka
Staff
40%o
Consumables/
Drugs 9%



203                                                                       Annex 19
Illvestment Costs: Karnataka (Rtupee Million)
so0        .......... .........................................................................  ..... ...............
It\\  F   -            *    Civil Works New
70--  y   .                             }Civil Works
Rehab.
60   --------------             ....................................                                                    Furn./Equip./Kits
----Vehicles
SO - ----- ------                .......................................................                                 - i'mg.A3ooks
/ EEC Material
40       -....................................................... .,1.......
-*/---t- Grants/Fellowship
30   .-........ ........                   ....................                                                         Inn. Scheme
-X- Conswtants
120  -- .......................__...
0.
1            2              3             4             5            6              7



204                                                               Annex I
Investment Costs: Kamataka (Rupee Million)
80            -             C l Works Now           ..... ................................... - -               -...........-
70               0-         Cvi Wor  Rehab.                   .....-...............................
---- ~~FumfiEquwpAIlts
6 0                                                 .........................  .................................   ............................... ..... ....:
40 -         ;..Ve7cl/
30   ,____                     ==_______=_
40                 1 .  g cC .................-
20
1                    2                     3                     4                     5                     6                     7
Imtestme  ,Costs: Kamnataka (Rupee Million)
-Ue----- TrnBoks
,S ~   -IZI---  IEC Material                                                                                                   -- 
30    .             $         Grants/Fellowls                                              ................................... .  .
25  -   --                      =  S   l   e.....................................................................
2,0 ]-  * osu 
10    :3=
1                    2                      3                    4                     S                     6                     7



205                                                                           AnIne
Recurrent Costs: Karnataka (Rupee Million)
18               *Staff                                         .....    - - .-.--..--..-.._ =A .......           ...... .......                      .........
16        {     0               Build/Maint.                    ............   ....             .... 
14                                                                                                                           ...... .. .....   .- -.......... .... ..............
12                              Co s m D u s                       ........                                 ........... .. .. ...... ..........I......-..-............
10                 0            TAIDA  &    WHP                                ............. .......  ...I.......... .... . .-........  ......-............ .........
6     ..................                          ..  ........ ..                                                      ...........   ....    .    ......   ... .... ....
4                             /                              ............. ..    ...    .....  -   .    .                            .   .....,........ 
2                        ------                                     ...........    .....   ....    ...  ..   .............    ..     ...   .     .................   ...........     .....
O
1                        2                         3                        4                        S67
Total Costs: Kamnatak:a (Rupee Mfillion)
100 
Recuffet Costs
10
.199S                     1996                   1997                   1998                   1999                   2000                   2001



206                               A n
Smmv Analyse of Sustatnabiliy of Poect Iynyto,"
And Recumnt Cost fmpilcatlons
Assam. Ranasthan and Kanataka
A summary of the results of the sustainability analysis is shown in Table A.20.1.
Table A.20.1
Recurrent   Recurret Cost   Total
Tota RB     Recurrent Costs   Cost after   after Completon    Non-Plan    Roecart
Project Costs               Completion   w/Contiwgues  H&FW Budget  Cost as 1
(Rn. Million)  Total   As %   (Per Annm)   (Per Amum)    by Yr 2000   of Budt
AIssam      1,035.4   116.6   1 11.2%  24.6          34.3        1,306.0       2A%
XlKarnataka    1,148.1    221.1  19.2%  45.9         63.9        3,700.0       1.7%
l asthn     1,043.6  L 196.4_j 18.8%   40.8          56.8        1,418.0/a     4.0%
/a VIM aid Non-Plan FW Budget
1.        The project foresees total project cost witlhout contingencies of Rs 1,035.4 million
of which approx. Rs 117 million or 11.2 percent ar recurrent costs. During its final year in
2000, it would require Rs 24.6 million annua}ly in recurrent costs at present values; if
contingencies are computed, recurrent costs after project completion by the year 2000 will
amount to Rs 34.3 million annually.
2.        The efforts to sustain project activities after completion are worth special mentoning
in Assam. Maintenance of buildings below the PHC level will be ensured through community
contributions and through programmes which are part of the development plan of the state, as
well as utilistation of untied funds at the disr qsal of the Deputy Commissioners. Main
of other buildings are computed at 2 percenL of construction cost (or Rs 35 milion for up
gradation of state dispensaries into PHCs) and reach a level of Rs 0.7 million anually only.
Personnel of the construction cell will be borroved from Public Works Departmeit and after
project completion, staff would be reverted back leaving only skeleton staff to be absorbed by
the Health department This holds also true for other personnel in the project directoat which
is to be constituted for the duration of the project on the basis of deputation from the main health
deprtt. At the end of the project they would go back to their parent organistion.
3.        Rs. 0.65 million annually have been quantified to cater for staff created by the
project after completion. As far as taining and IEC are concemned, annual recurrent costs will
amount to Rs 10 million to make sure that acdvities can be sustained at high levels beyond the



207                             Annex20
project life.
4.        Rs 24.6 million would also accommodate the additional recurrent cost incurred for
the improvement of logistics. Still, annual recurrent costs are at a comparatively low level,
thas to the special and innovative efforts to sustain project activities.
S.       It is impossible to tell at this time whether (01 will continue to maintain Fanily
Welfi as a 100 percent centrally-financed program. It is possible that part or all of the
progam's financing may be transferred to become a state responsibility, even if that is highly
improbable for the State of Assam which is a special category state enjoying special dispention
as far as plan funds are concmned.
6.       In order to assess the future financial burden on the State of Assam and thus, the
s_sanability of the recurrent costs generated by the project after its completion, the annual
recrt costs will be held against the non-plan state budget of Health and Family Welfare in
compatibility with other states covered by IPP IX. However, a more realistic sustainabiity
analysis would also have to take into account the centrally-sponsored Family Welfare schemes
within the plan Health Budget where about 45 percent or Rs 270 million of the total budget for
1993/94 of Rs 601 million is set aside for Family Welfare. It should also be mentioned that
Assam enjoys special attention for the hill areas for which an additional provision is made in the
plan and non-plan health budgets of approx. Rs 50 million (Rs 18 million for Family Welfre)
and Rs 41 million (Rs 0.4 million for Family Welfare) p.a. respectively.
7.        The State of Assam's combined Health and Family Welfre budget amounts to non-
plan expenditures of approx. Rs 670 million in the year 1993/94 of which approx. Rs. 13 million
go to Family Welfare. It is claimed that the expenditure on Health and Family Welfare bas
reached a more than 12 percent real growth over the last 7 years. For the present analysis, a
more consevative real growth rate of 10 percent annually will be computed. Accordingly, non-
plan exenditures under the combined Health and Family Welfare budget would amount to Rs
1306 miUion by the year 2000, and expenditures for Family Welfare to Rs 26 million.
8.       In the project proposal, the recurrent cost implication of the project after completion
would be 2.6 percent of the total combined non-plan Health and Family Welfare budget of
Assam (without taking into account the additional resources of Rs 42 million in 1993/94 for hill
areas). If recurrent costs are only held against the non-plan Family Welfare budget, the recurrent
cost implications would lie in the order of more than 100 percent. An increase of 2.6 percent
can be considered as insignificant and the burden created by the project as minor. But an
increase of more than 100 percent of the non-plan Family Welfre budget - or more than
doubling - seems difficult to reach and therefore it might be concluded that only if funds from
the general health budget could be transferred for Family Welfare activities, would the State of
Assam be able to sustain project activities beyond the project's life without taldng into account
centrally financed schemes.



208                             Anug.20
9.        The project foresees total project cost without contingencies of Rs 1,043.6 million
of which approx. Rs 196.4 million or 18.8 percent are recurrent costs. During its final year in
2000, it would requie approx. Rs 40.8 million annually in recurent costs at present values; if
condngencies are computed, recnt costs after project completion after the year 2000 will
amount to approx. RS 56.8 million anually. (Recurrent cost after project completion are
computed as follows: 1. State Institute of Health and Family Welfare: Rs 3.12 miliion, 2. New
H.F.W.T.C.: Rs 2.0 million, 3. Two existing H.F.W.T.C.: 0.64 mifflion, 4. DTC: Rs 14.38
milion, 5. HMIS: Rs 0.86 million, 6. IEC: Rs 1.5S mon annually).
10.      If part or all of the program's financing may be transferred to become a state
responsibility, the future financial burden on the State of Rajasthan has to be assessed and thus,
the susainability of the recurrent costs created by the project beyond the prqect's life.
Therefore, the annual recrt expenditure will have to be held against the estmated state's
budget resources available for Family Welfare in the State's FW budget as weUll as within the
Stte's health budget. However, realstically, centrally-sponsored schemes should also be tae
int account to assess fitmre sustinabilit.
iI.      For the year 1993/94, the budget esdmates on Family Welfare reached Rs 711
million on plan expenditures and Rs 49 million on non-plan expenditures. Assuming a future
annual nominal growth rate of 10 percent, non-plan expenditures by the year 2000 will reach
Rs 95 million. The total Family Welfare budget including centally-financed resources will
amount to Rs 1418 million.
12.      The recurent cost implication of the project after completion would be 60 percent
of the total non-plan expenditure for Family Welfire. This means that if the annual recurrent
costs would have to be covered by the state non-plan budget alone, the impact would be
consderable. If recuret costs are held against the combined plan and non-plan Family Welfre
expenditures, the impct would be in the order of 4.0 pent  This burden is relatively
insificant and the project can be considered as sustinable.
KMRN&TAM
13.      The proect proposal foresees total project cost without contingencies of Rs 1148. 1
million of which 19.2 percent or Rs 221 million are recuret costs. When the project will be
completed by the year 2000, it would require Rs 45.9 million annually in recuent costs at
present values; if contngencies are computed, recunent costs after project completion by the
year 2000 will amount to Rs 63.9 million.
14.      It is impossible to tell at this time whether GOI will continue to maintain Family
Welfare as an almost 100 percent centrally-financed progam. It is possible that part or all of
the program's financing may be transfed to become a state responsibility. In order to assess
the future financial burden on the State of Kamataka and thus thie sustinability of the recurent



AAO9                           An=2
costs geneated by the project beyond the project's life, the annual recurring exediture will
have to be held against the estimated non-plan state budget resources available for Family
Welfae in the Stae's Family Welfare budget as well as within tfie State's Health budget. Two
thirds of the State's non-plan Health budget arn claimed to be spent on Family Welfe
expenditures acoording to the Secretay of Health.
15.      For the year 1992/93, the expenditure on Family Welfare reached Rs 563 million
on plan exenditures and Rs 38 miion on non-plan e tures over Rs 508 million and Rs
29 million respectively for the previous year representing an increase of 12 and 13 percent
respecively. Assuming a future annual growth rate of 10 pecent, non-plan expendius by the
year 2000 will reach Rs 74 million. The total Family Welfare budget will amount to Rs 1171
milion. Strictly, the sustainability analysis would have to limit itself to the implications on state
budgets and disregard centrally-funded progams; however, it should be assumed, as in the case
of Assam and Rajasthan, tat at least patt of the burden will be carmied by 001 and therefore,
plan expenditures will be kn  into account.
16.      The Stabt of Karnatass combned Health and FW  Budget amounts to Plan
expenditures of Rs 1,478 million and non-plan expenditure of Rs 2,848 million or a total of Rs
4326 milion for the year 1993/94 which repents 4.66 percent of total state expediue. It
is claimed that the expenditure on Health and Family Wehe has been growing at a compound
rate of 14.4 percent since 1983. For the present analysis, a more consevative growth rate of
10 pert p.a. will be computed. Accodiny, non-plan expenditures would amount to Rs 5550
million by the year 2000. If two thirds of this amount are spent on Family Welfae expenditures,
an amount of apprx. Rs 3,630 would be available by the year 2000 for Family WeLfare within
the Health and FW Budget of Kanataka. The total resources of the Family Wfre budget of
Rs 74 million and of the Family Welfae component of the Health Budget amount to Rs 3,700
miion by the year 2000.
17.      The recont cost impHcation of the project after completion would be approx. 1.7
percent of the total non-plan cxpenditure for Family Welfare, provided two thirds of the Health
Budget are acbually available for Family Welare. Ihis increase is rlatively insignificant and
the burden created by the prqect can be considered as sustainable. However, if the annual
recrent cost after project completion had to be financed by the non-plan state budget for
Family Welfare solely, the impact of over 100 percent would be drmatic, as resources would
have to be more than doubled.



210                                      Annex 21
Lists of Staff/Comnittee Members and Orfanigrams
Of Project Management Structure
Assam. Ralasthan and Karnataka
Assam
Empowered Committee
* Minister of Health
*  Additional Chief Secremty & Special Comnussioner & Special Secretay (Health & Family WeLfare
Deparment)
*  Additional Chief Sertary, P & D Department
*  Commissione, Finance
*  Commissioner, PWD
* Secretary, Health & Family WeLfare
*  Representative of GOT. MOH&FW
* Project Director
Project Management Committee (PMC)
*  Additional Chief Secrety & Special Commissioner & Special Secretaty Health & Family Welfare
Dqertm
*  Secretay, Health & Family Welfare
 Director, Health Services
*  Director, Health Services (Family Welfare)
*  Project Director
Project Directorate                                      *  Medical Officers and Nurse
Trainers
x  Project Director                                      *  AU para-medical & Community
Constrction Cell                                     Health Workers
*  Superintending Engineer
*  Architect                                     Monitoring & Evaluation Cell
*  Executive Engineer                            *  Deputized pet'sonnel from
*  Assistant Engineer                                Dqeament
*  Section Officer
*  Drafts man                                    IEC Cell
*  UD Assistant                                  *  Senior Consultant
*  LD Assistant cum Typist
*  Steno-Typist                                  Materials Management Cell
*  Grade IV staff                                *  Deputized personnel from
*  Diver                                             Depant
Consucion Ceol - Field office            District Level Project Management
*  Executive Engineer                            District Project Coordination
*  Assnt Engineer                                Committee
*  Section Officer                               *  Deputy Commissioner
*  LD Assistant cum Typist                       *  Project Director, DRDA
*  Grade IV staff                                *  Additional Deputy Commissioner
*  Driver                                            (Dev.)
*  Executive Engineer (CiviliWater
CM&HO)
Healh Manpower Development Coil                  *  Additional, CM&HO Public Health
*  Senior Consultant                                 Enginering (Water Supply)
* Tutor Consulants



211                                            Anmex2
IPP-IX Project Management
A S S A M
Empowered               Project
Cowmmi ttee           Management
CC tniettee
Project
Director
I
Project
D irectorate
Construction        ealth Manpower| Monitoring &                               Materials
Cell           DeveloPment         Evaluation          IEC Cell          Management
c Cel                                                     Cell
Dist. Proj.           Construction         District             HMIS
Mgmt.                .- Field         Trng. Centre        Information
Committee               office
_ ~~~~~& Hlh .. 
SDM&NO          U!P Officer           D
Heat



212                                     Annex 21
Karnataka
Project Governing Board (PGB)
* The Chief Secrtary to the Gowernment
* Representative of the Government of India
*  The Secretary to Government. Finance Depaumen
*  The Secretary to Go aermet Health & Family Welfare Dqeatm
* The Director of Health & Family Welfire Seavices
* The Additional Director (Family Welfiae & MCH)
* The Project Coordinator
PGB Steerng Committee
*  Secretary to Govement. Health & Family Welfare Departmnt
*  Secretay to Govenment, Finance Depatment
*  Additional Secrtary Health & Family Welfire
*  Director of Health & Famiy Welfare Services
* Additional Director (Family Welfare & MCH)
* Additional Director, Projects
Intra Departmental Committee
*  Secrr, Health & Family Welfire
*  Additional Secretary, Health & Family Welfre
*  Ditector, Health & Family Welfire Services
* Director, Population Centre
* Additional Director, Family Welfare & MCH
* Additional Director, Projeas
Institute for Health & Family Welfare           *  Deputy Director Information
*  Director                                     *  Deputy Director Field Operations
3  Joint Director                               *  Deputy Director Publicity
* Deputy Director
*  First Division Assistant
* Second Division Assistants
Drivs
* class IV
Engineering Wing
*  Superintding Engineer
* Assislant Executive Engineer
* Assistant Engineer
* Draughts man
* Traces
JAIES
* Deputy Director
* Senior Systems Analyst
* Hardware Engineer
* FDA
* District - FDA
IEC Cell
* Joint Director IEC



213                                 Annex 21
IPP-IX Kamataka
Project           steering
Governing          Committee
Board
bry 81   IntrM
Health & D epartmental
FW              Commfflee
{:Addl. Sec.8
;'Director 
ILH8FW    J
Add. Dir                                  Adi D jXr.A



214                                     AUL= 21
IWaasthan
Empowered Commite (EC)
Monitorn Committee (MC)
Disrict Coordination Committee (DCC)
Secretariat:
*  Health Sccetary > Chief Coordinator
*  Specia Secry> Additional Chief Codiator
*  Deput Se ay  Proje Coonato
Straegc Maagement Unit (SMU)
Directorate:
*    iror Medical Health Services -> Additional Project Dirtor
Disict:
*  Chief Medcl Health Officer -> Distict project officer
Human Resoures Development Commiftee (HRDC)
-Diector Family Welfare
* Additional Director HRD
* Pnpal, SOWW
* Prject Director
Zonal Level Training Coordinating Committee
-  Jot Director
District Traning Coordinato
-Principals of District Training Centers
Integated Statistiacal Unit                     *  Medica Lecturer
- Joint Dirctor Statistics                      *  Management Lectu
ProgramImer                                    *  Behavioral Science Lecturer
*DaftaEntry                                   *  Health ComnctonLecturer
*  Statstica Officer
State Institute of Health & Family Welfare      *  Social Science Instructor
(S771HF)                                            PHN1 Instructor
*Principal Staff CMB)                         *Extension and Publicity Officer
*Accounts Officer                             *Research Assistant
*COMPUte Programmer                            *Field Investigtor
*Library-cum-Docunientation Office
*OffieSueitedn                                *  Officer Sprnedn
*Accountant                                   *  Clark-sum-Accountant-cunm-Store Keeper
*  ographer                         *~~~~~~~ Steno-Typist
*UDC                                          *  Laboratory technician
*Driver                                       *  Artist-cumi.draftsman
*Class-IV'                                    *  Clerk-cum-typist
* Laboratory Assistan
Healt & Family Welfare Training Cenftrs         *  Projectionist
*  Principal (Deputy Director level                 Pleon



215                                            Annex 21
*   Driver-cum-mechanic                                 *   Health Communications Instructor
*   Sweer                                               *    Mnagement Istructor
*   Cleaner                                             *   Nursing Tutor
*   Chowkidar-cum-mali                                  *   Soca Science Instructor
*   LDC                                                 *   PHN Instrcors
*   Librarian Assistant                                 *   UDC
*   Driver                                              *   Junior Accounts Officer
*   Record Keper                                        *   LDCrrypist
*Class IV
Dirict Training Centers (DTC)                           *   Driver
*   Senior Medical Officer
IPP-IX Project Management
Rajasthan
E_owe_ ed          monitoring                               NEel
Comittee            Committee          Secretarat         Secretary
Str _lgic         SOeputayr            Spca
i Unitw (sm          Coordinator
f -       >   ~~Hunan Resources|      integrated   |Zonal Trafning
Health & Familyt      District
welfare          Tr ining
Trainino Center        Centers



216                          Annex 22
LIst of Additional Posts Created under the Project
Ams Raaa and           ka
SUJbDARY OF ADDMlONAL POSTS POOE
FOR CREATIQN UNDE13R JIPP ISK PROJECT
STATES                 TOTAL NO. OF POSTS
1.  Assam                      90
2.  Kamnataka                 163
3.  Rajastha                  228
4.  Department of               5
Family We1tr
TOTAL NUMBER OF POSTS  486



217
LIS OF ADDMO-NAL STF PROPOED
L A%
HA  Or NI                           DlBSIONATON                                      NOF POltS
A.    Projea Directos                     1. Projea diret                                            1
Offico                             2. Steno-typist                                            1
3. U.D. Asstt.                                             I
4. Grade IV                                                1
4
B.    Financial Mansan                    1. Sr. Fmnancial Adviser                                   1
2. Accountant 
3. Cashir 
4. L.D.A. cum typist                                       I
4
C.    Constrcati  CCU                     1. Supdt. Engineer                                         I
2. Exective Engineer                                      5
3. Asistant Engincer                                      5
4. Archict 
5. Section Oficer                                          1
6. Drdtasman 
7. Steo-typist                                             I
S. LD. Asst.-cumypirt                                     6
9. Grade IV                                               6
35
D.    Moaitosing Cea                      1. Sr. Remearch Officer
2. Research Officer                                        I
3. Reserch Asstt.                                          I
3
L.    Heath Manpower                      1. Sr. Consultant                                          I
Development CeU                    2. Sr. Consult                                             2
3. Stno-typist                                             I
4. Grde IV                                                 I
P.     Mc Cll                             1. Sr. Consulant
2. Astt. Edtor                                             I
3. Steo-typist                                             1
4. Gade IV                                                 I
4
G.    MatalManagem                        1. Store Offier                                            I
Cdl                                2. U.D. cum sto keaper                                     1
3. Paker                                                   2
4. Grade IV                                                I
5. Night Chowkidar                                         I
6



218                                        A  2L
N or UNIT                    D13SIGNMTON                                    N, OFSl
H.    HMIS CAMl                        1. Pm   mer
2. Prrmme AtL                                         2
3
Tlaun                           Dim for nw voes                                      26
TOTAL NO. OF POST6S 
AdmIaliratlon                  1.Jit Drect                                           1
2.  Iq.aeumas
A br                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
AsM Enginee
Daann                                                2
Trams                                                2
3.     MIIs                            Dy. Direor                                            I
St. Sy_   alyst                                      2
HNrdwm Eogioe
Coputer Opea   (FDA)                                 23
27
4.     MIc                             Dy. direcor (dd Operation)                            I
sooW S                                                alia
Dy. D.H.E.O.                                         2
AitI
First Dhim Aa&                                        I
Onop D                                                i
Group D 
9
S.    ImW                              Dirr                                                  I
IL Drecr                                              I
Dy. Dieco                                            10
Anti Dior                                             1
Fr Dhii Ase.                                         2
Second Division Asf.                                  2
Drven                                                4
Group D                                              2
23
6.     DiM   Troiog                    'ock                                                 19
Ceatr 19 CAM                   Group D                                              76
'S
An tibd                                                                            ita



219                                          Amna 2
m           -.A
NI_ofl DUati                                                                             No. ofPos
A.      S.I.N,P.W.                       1. Principal 
2. Accouts Officor                                       1
3. Analyst cutt Porammer
4. Lbarin                                                I
S. OfMice Supdt.
6. Accountant
7. Stawo.
S. UDC                                                   3
9. LDC                                                   2
1O.Drivcr                                                2
1I.ClasaslV                                              4
I2.Sodot Faculty                                         3
13.Faculty                                               3
14Ju1nior Faculty                                        4
1S.ReserchOffice                                         2
16.Research Investigator                                 2
7.Stenoghaper                                            2
34
D.      HFWTC                            1. Pdncipa                                                1
2. M.L.D.C.                                              I
3. Communication Officer                                 1
4. Lectrer                                               1
S. E.P.O.                                                2
6. Soc. Sc. Instructor                                   1
7. Stat Offtcer                                          I
S. P.H.N. Insuctor                                       1
9. Office Supd.                                          I
10. aekAcc/senghr                                        1
II. Stno-typist 
12. Lab. Tochnicin                                       I
13. Computer                                             1
14. Ar/Draftsman 
is. aerTypist 
16. Lab. AsaaI
17. Class IV                                             3
18. Driver-cum-Moch.                                     I
19. Chowia dar-cum-Mali                                  I
20. Lecrer in Management                                 3
21. Lect. in Behaviourd Sc.                              3
22. Resarch AsstL                                        3
23. Field  veigaor                                       3
24. LDC                                                  3
25. LbaianAAstn.                                         3
26. Record Keeper                                        3
43



220                                           AnKhL
Name of Unit                      Deal                                                 m  of Pam
C.      D.T.C.                            1. Sr. Modica Offcer                                      IS
2. HUalth Communlctou  ht  W
3. LDCtrypist                                             1
4. ManSement Instructor                                   IS
5. Udo/Jr. Accounts
75
D.      PROjECT MANAGEMENT
1. Mananenicut Utins
1. ProJect Director-cum Depuy SectY                        I
2. kt. Director                                            I
3. Section Officer                                         1
4. Aslt. Accounts Offcer                                   I
S. Addl. Director (Proet)                                  1
6. Jt. Direcor (Servieo Ddeveay)                           I
7. Dy. Diretor (Project)                                   I
8. Accounts Officer                                        I
9. Accountant                                              I
10. Stenograpber                                          3
1 1. Stat. Asiant                                          I
12. Stat. inspetr                                          1
13. U.D.C.                                                4
14. L.D.C.                                                4
1S. aaa IV                                                2
16. Drvr                                                  4
28
H. 1aji3n
1. Jt. Director                                            1
2. Snogapher                                               1
3. Driver                                                  1
4. Caa IV                                                  I
4
M.HMIS Section
1. Dy. Dirctor (Mon.)                                      1
2. StaL Officer
3. Stat AamuL                                              2
4. Aalyi-cum-Ptogrlr                                       2
S. Programmer                                              2
6. Data Enty Opeaor (In. Coenatn 2)                        4
11
IV. Construction Wina
1. Ex5ective Eaginsr                                       1
2. Dy. Arcict                                              1
3. AMs. Arcliect                                           2
4. Draftsm                                                 2
5. LDC                                                     1
6. Driver 
7



221                     2         2
P.M  of Unit                     12slonmo.o
B.      I.EC.
1. Dkor ([AS)
2. Jt. Direcor                                           I
3. Dy. Dirctor                                           I
4. Ast Dirctor                                           3
S. DocumentecoOffier                                     I
6. D ibutian Ocer                                        1
7. Jr. Accountant                                        I
S. Sutopher                                              3
9. UDC                                                   2
10. Eecrician                                            I
11. A.V. Tecnician                                       1
12. LDC                                                  2
13. Sound Recordef                                       I
14. Driver                                               2
15. CIaaIV                                               4
16. Packer                                               I
26
TOTAL POST S
IV. Dentt.f F&mUX Wda&e
1. Desk OffcerI
2. Stenogapher (Gr.1)                                    I
3. Progaer                                               1
4. DMtaEntry Operato 
s. Peon 
S
Tota No. of Pes oo the dw "a: U+1a+22+S  dU



222                             AnnexL3
utline of &ope and Metbodology
For BaseUne Suvneys and Other Evaluative Survens and Studies
1.        Theprogess and impact of the project will be measured in tenrs of the agreed key
proct indicators, as well as other indicators contained in the full indicator matrix (Annex 3).
Routine implementation of the project will be monitored through: (a) MIS tracling (Annex 14);
(b) six-monthly progress reports prepared by the state project management units (Annexes 26
and 27); (c) the Midterm Review (Annex 25). Evaluation of the project's effectiveness and
impact will be canried out through a series of studies and surveys, namely a set of baseline
surveys, mid-term studies and surveys, and various evaluative studies surveys including end-
project surveys. This Annex outlines the scope and methodology required for the base-line, mid-
term and end-project and other evaluative surveys and studies.
Baseline Surveys and Studies
2.        Population-based sample Baseline Surveys are required for all three states, to
provide a set of baseline values for the project indicators of health and Family Welfare status,
cens and uptake of services, and quality of services. In Assam, t& o results of the National
Health and Family Welfare Survey held in 1993 will be used as the statelevel baseline survey
if available, but a matching separate new baseline survey for the tribal poplion would then
be carried out within the first year of the project. If the NFWS results are not available to the
ate, en a new baseline survey for the entire state would have to be held within the same time-
fiame. New baseline surveys should be carried out in Rajasthan and Karnataka within the first
sx months of the proect. For the migratory population in Rajasthan, a special longitudinal study
Is in progress Xt will track migratory groups through the annual migration cycle; because of
dhe logistcal difficulties of surveying this population adequately, it will serve as both baseline
suey and beneficiary needs assessment. For all states, a fuU analysis and final report of the
baseline survey should be ready by the end of the project's first year.
3.        Detailed design of the corntent and methodology of the Baseline Surveys will be the
responsibility of each state, and shouid incorporate local concerns and conditions to the extent
posible. However, it is recomm.ended that the NFWS design in each state be used as a model
fo the basline survey, since it reflects state-of-the-art survey methodology and has been
ucssfuly applied world-wide. The basis would be interviews of a sample of households and
individual women witiin the households, with a sample size large enough to be disaggregated
in analysis down to whatever level is chosen as suitable and feasible for the purpose of
evaluating progress in the project and in the Family Welfare program. The district, or clusters
of districts, might be suitable analytic units. However the design must also permit the evaluation
of progress in tribal populations vis-a-vis non-tribal populations in each state, which will
probably entail over-sampling of tribal groups in all states in order to yield sufficiently large
tibal samples.
4.        The Baseline Survey questionnaire, again following the NFWS model, would cover



223                              Annyx 23
such topics as: fertility histories including child survival; knowledge, attitudes and prctce of
all types of family planning method; place of last delivery and type of attendance at delivery;
source and scope of antenatal care, including tetanus toxoid immunisation and iron
supplementation; breastfeeding and infant feeding practices; incidence and treatment of
diarrhoea, fever and acute respiratory infections among children; immunisation status of
children; height and weight of children; treatment of children with vitamin A; etc.
5.        To these core questions could be added modules dealing with access to and quality
of Family Welfare services, such as: distance and travel time to nearest FW and health facilities;
waiting times at facilities; services, staff and supplies available at facilities; attitudes of and
towards FW staff; home visits from FW staff; use of private medical practitioners; etc. Such
questions can be put to individual households and women, and also asked of community
representatives under a separate Access to Services module. Additional modules could also be
added as desired, to deal with such topics as: male attitudes and practices regarding Family
Welfare services, particularly family planning; knowledge, attitudes, practices and available
services for MTP; maternal mortality and morbidity; exposure to various IEC channels and
messages; etc.
6.        The analysis and report of the Baseline Surveys would aim to present a coherent
picture of current levels, past trends and current differentials in:
-the health and Family Welfare status of each state's population
-access to health and Family Welfare services, including FW IEC
-quality of FW services, including FW IEC
7.        Values for as many as possible of key project impact indicators would be estimated,
as well as for other indicators in the entire matrix of indicators. These would serve as
benchmarks to measure subsequent project impact. Particular attention would also be paid to
differenils between tribal and non-tribal populations and to trends in districts covered by the
prect's civil works program (in Rajasthan and Karnataka).
8.        In addition to the Baseline Surveys, other initial studies will be carried out as needed
to establish baselines and benchmarks for the project. Examples would be further in-depth
studies of tribal groups where the initial beneficiary assessments have indicated a need for them,
and supplementary studies of training or IEC program needs.
End-iftject livaluative Studies
9.        In the final year of the project, population-based Final Evaluation Surveys would
be caried out in all three states. These would consist of a repeat of each state's Baseline Survey.
In Assam, this might entail a two-part survey, one covering the non-tribal population and one
the trbal population, if this is needed to match the original baselines. In Rajasthan, it would
include a repeat of the longitudinal migratory group study. The analysis of the final evaluative
surveys would repeat the analysis for the Baseline Surveys, but add an analysis of trends in



224                             ADD23
health and fmily planing status and service access, based on values for key indicators, which
would seek to establish the impact of the project on them. Particular attention will be paid to
trends in tribal and migratory areas, in differentials between tribal and non-tribal groups, and
in project civil works districts (in Rajasthan and Karnataka).
10.      In addition, f;nal evaluative studies of all new programs and aprroaches
ploeered under the project will be carried out towards the close of the project, in order to
determine their value and effectiveness. These would include any innovadve programs or
approaches covered under the four main components of the project and any innovative schemes
that have survived their initial testing and evaluation period. No model design or methodology
can be laid down for this type of study, since each will need to be tailored to individual
circumstances and requirements.
The Mid-term Review
11.      ITe Mid-tenn Review of the project will be carried out by the states appoximately
half way through the project period, and is described in Annex 25 which lays out the superviion
plan for the project. Its main objective will be to determine whether the project is on course or
not, and whether any major adjustments need to be made in order to ensure that project funds
will be fully utilised within the project period and the major goals of the proect will be
achieved. Its core content, described in Annex 25, includes no studies or surveys.
12.       However, in addition to the core content of the Review various studies and surveys
may be carried out, if IDA and the states agree that it could usefully be done at that point (see
Annex 25). These could include a repeat of the Baseline surveys, which could always at a
minimum provide a useful picture of background trends in key indicators, even if proiect
progress has been too slow to expect any specific impact of project activities on them. If
progress has been fast, such a repeat might also give early indications of project impact. Repeats
of the taining and communication needs assessments conducted as part of project preparton
may also be carried out at this point. These would be used to assess the effectiveness and impact
of the project in improving training and IEC programs. In addition, spcial in-depth evauative
studies of any new and innovative prograns, approaches or schemes that appear particularly
promising or problematic from field reports or their regular evaluation may be carried out. The
design and methodology for these will again be tailored to the individual requirements of each
study.



225                                    Am=
Outline of Layout and Content for Si-MOlnthl   lm enorta
Sample IPP-IX
Six-Monthly Project Report
This sample report is provided to gie pojeCtS an outine to follow in the preparation of six-monthly
repos fo submission to the World Bank and for use in inerl project rview ad evaluaui
Executive Summary:
InstJUCQIons:   Proide a general ovevew of projea activities within the last six months; iclud
* Summuary of activities
* Budget
* Project successes
*  Probms encountered
Project Activities (Last six months)
nstructions:    Provide a geneal overview of acities completed.
Aci'tiles Completed
Instuctions:   Provide a bief ovemew of the major actvities completed during the past period.
Problems Encountered
Instructions:    All problems encounterod by the project during the past period should be outlined in
dhiL
lswes to be addnssed dwing review
Inst tions:    Specific isses which need to be addsessed by the project and suron  minsons
should be outined.
Paoned Activities (Next six months)
Insructions:   Provide a geneal overw of activites to be completed duing the next period. This
section should also ecplain how the planned activities directly eblte to goals of the project
Project Budget:
Ins_uctions:    The goal of the prject budget summary is to asses the curt le  of fandig for
difrent categones of actives, and to evauate the mtes of spendig vs budgtd iems For each of the
items the budget figumes should be provided. Addonal commen  regarng under and over speing
should be provied and discussed in the itl section
Comments on Budgnt
ntucons:   Specific comments readg the budget and epedtur  should be povided (ie. 1imds
VWre not released for certin activaies eady enough for aoa).



226                                     AM=   2it
Ptojed Expeditures by Category
item           Total      Total    Amount      Amount       Differe     Amount  Budget
Budget   Spent   Budgeted    Spent Last                 next 6 months
Est PIT  PFM       last     6  6 Months
.__________             months
Civl Work
Furniture       _                .
Computers             .     -
Trinin       _  ___   _____ _____ ______   _,                              ____ __ _
etc_             .      __        .         ___'_____                   _________-__
etc.
(0) Project To Date (PTD)
Graphs of BadgertExpend%res
1)     (Bar Chart)
Total Budgeted for category to date
Total Spent for category to date
2)     (Bar Chart)
Total Budgeted this period
Total Spent this period
Budget for next penod
3)     (Pie Chart)
Expdiurs this period by catey
Specific Achievements/Activities (This period)
Ilstructions:    Complete a matrix of all activities which w ere planned for the previous six monkt
and the staus of the activity.
Training       MO Traiuing for new group of Complted           New   materials   wre
officers under proect                           dveloped  for taining
_   ____course. 
HMIS Trining for District bealth  On.Gon        New forms were gnen to
personnel                                       CHMO    at   training
__ __ __ ___   ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __                  sessions_
Constucio      10 new PHC's to be sted         8 PHCs stated  Unable to locate adeqte
duringperiod    site in vilIge for two
.________  .________________   _ ___       PHCs
Complete 20 PHCs               17 Completed    Three PHCs are waiutg
for materials prior to
._ _ __ _ _  . _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _   __   _ _ _  _ _  com pletion
Projct         Complete prject staffing        AUl     P
_ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        been  filled
ETC.             _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _     _  _  _  _ _     _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _



227                                    Az24
Activities Planned (Next Period)
Instructions:    A worksheet should be prepared outlining all activities that are to be compleWd in the
next 6 months. This plan should be developed to specify activities, and other project related information
as a blueprint for action. Categories can be any gruping of activities the project wishes to iden*. The
categories should match those used for reporting completed activities as shown in the prvious worksheet
Construction    Complete     proposal Contuction      Rainy Season  Inldude    revised
review of NGO design  Cel, Architect, starts in two  blueprints for all
for SCs                NGO             months        SCs being cr
IEC            KAP Survey for new  EEC Cell, local Personnel not Covea   of suvey
radio campaign        radio   station, available  for should    indude
IlHMR          sui            tribal populations as
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _a     sub-s
Quick survey of Tribal EEC Cel        TrPjals   are  Ideni      specific
Needs Assessment                       migiatozy     factors relaed  to
__________ _______________                     duwing period   heath cue access.
ETC.          I_                   + -
Key Indicators
Insuctions:   Inoron on key indicators should be provided based on available information. The
physical completon targes should be reported on a six-monty basis. Additdonaly, any appropite
project process indicators should be included m the report A full analysis of indicator status should be
maintained and presented witiin the annmal reporl
# planned to be  # completed  %  of Number to be  #        to  Total
completed  ths  thisperiod    Target completed next complete  Completed
pperiod                              period-        in  project
SC's             .___           _      __                          ___L
PHC's__             _  _  _  _ _  _    _  _
Training
institutions
Boat Clinics                                                                            L
Mobile Clinics
Etc..          _



228                                    Annex 24
Compliance with Major Covenants
Section    Type of      Status    Original    Revised    Description of Covenant                   Comment
Covenant               Date       Date
7.1                                                      Assurances from 001
GOI provided an assurance that it would:
7.1(a)     F                                             Carry out with IDA in December of each
year a review of the actual expenditures
incurred under the project during that fiscal
year, azid by March 31 of each year a review
of the resources required for the project for
the following fiscal year, in order to
determine that there will be full provision for
that year's planned project activities.
7.1(b)     T                                             Implement the Action Plan for Revamping
the Family Welfare Program.
7.2        F                                             Joint Assurance from 001 and the States of
Assam. Raiasthan and Karataka
During negotiations, 001 and the States of
Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka provided
assurances that they would: prepare and have
audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, accounts and financial statements for
the project for each fiscal year; maintain
statements of expenditure according to sound
accounting practices, retain them for at least
one year after completion of the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was
made, and include a separate opinion on
them in the annual audit; and furnish copies
of these accounts to IDA as soon as possible,
but not later than nine months after the end
of each fiscal year.
7.3        M                                             Assurances from the States of Assam.
Raiasthan and Karnataka
The States of Assam, Rajasthan and
Karnataka also provided assurances that they
would:
7.3(a)                                                   Establish the full project management
structure, including all Comminttees and
technical units by October 30, 1994.
7.3(b)                                                   Engage all other key additional personnel to
be recruited under the project by December
31, 1994.



229                                       Annex 24
7.3(c)                                                       Ensure that the Empowered Project
Committees hold regular meetings at a
frequency adequate for effective project
direction and supervision, but in any case at
least twice a year.
7.3(d)                                                       Prepare and submit to IDA for approval by
January 31 of each year, annual civil works,
training, IEC, MIS and service delivery
plans for the following fiscal year
substantially in accordance with content and
timetables embodied in Annex 26.
7.3(e)                                                       Six-monthly progress reports to IDA in
conformity With the format and timetable
laid out in Annex 24.
7.3(f)                                                       Carry out, in each state, a baseline survey, a
Midterm Review, and final evaluative studies
and surveys according to the protocols,
methodologies and timetables laid out in
Annex 23.
7.3(g)                                                       Adhere to the selection criteria for location
and siting of sub-centre buildings laid out in
Annex 6 in the construction of all sub-
centres during the project period under either
l_________    _______    _________    _________    project or non-project funding.
7.3(h)                                                       Ensure that adequate resources are provided
on a timely basis, through a series of
measures agreed with the Association, for
the maintenance of Family Welfare facilities
and will ensure that the facilities are
l _______                 _______   ________    ________    adequately  maintained.
7.3(i)                                                       Ensure that adequate supplies of drugs and
other medical materials are made available to
sub-centres, PHCs and FRUs on a timely
basis, by, inter alia: (a) establishing an
essential drugs list for Family Welfare
program drug purchases by December 31,
1994; (b) from January 1, 1995 onwards,
purchasing all drugs for the Family Welfare
program, under either project or non-project
funding, solely from among items on the
essential drugs list; and (c) mobilising
incremental resources for drugs and other
medical supplies for Family Welfare
facilities.
7.3)                                                   _     Implement the State Action Plans.



230                                   Amm 24
7.3(k)                                                 Utilise the key project indicators laid out in
Annex 3, and related to national and state
Action Plan goals and objectives, for project
monitoring and evaluation of project
__________                                   implementation and imapact.
7.3Q)                                                  Implement fully their tribal strategies as laid
out in Annex 17.
7.3(m)                                                 Select NGOs for participation in the project
in accordance with criteria and procedures
-            -     ________ ________  ~~~~~~agreed with the Associationi.-
7.3(n)                                                 Obtain approval from the Association for
selection of innovative schemes to be carried
out under the project.
7.4                                                    State of
The State of Karnataa also provided an
assurance during negotiations that it would:
Begin by July 1, 1995 implemertation of a
progam, to be funded out of state non-
project funds, of adequate rehabilitation of
Family Welfare facilit. s constructed prior to
the project, whicb wiil be carried out
according to a timetable agreed with the
Association; and furnish to the Association
evidence of satisfactory implementation of
the rebabilitation program.
-ype or Covennt
OK:   Covenat complied with
Soon:  Compliance expected in reasonably short time
NYD:  Not yet due
ACT:  Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
RVS:  Needs to be tevised
M:  Mamaga
F:     Financial
T:     Technical
E:     Economic



231                                   Annex
Annexes: (Materials for Report)
Contacts and Physicl Progress
Provide informaton on construion contcs and progress of work on contracts.
Consrucion Saus Workheet
Guwahati  PHC   Comrletd   100%          I         Jan. 95
on ""    |SC      Foundation   30%                SJue 95
comiletd
.JEt Lcf-                          =    1
Penonne Staflng Workshe
aing   programs in
_thesummer.
Etc.     
IC Worksee
Film shows       Health Posts    Awareness of Services  126       27,733
available at SC% and
Etc.                            PHCIS
Traning Planing Worksee



232
Other Materials to be Induded:
* Special Reports
* Survey Studies
*  HMIS Summaty Rqps
*  IEC Mateials Produced
*  Detailed budgt PReports
*  Etc.
Sample Budget Report (Six-Monthly)
Civil Works              5000     4000    -1000     1000      800      -200     400
Fumiture                 1000      800     -200      200      200        0      200
Equipment                2000     1000    -1000      600      500      -100     600
Computers                 500      300     -200      100      100        0t      100
Vehides                  1000      700     -300      200      100      -100     200
materials                 500      200     -300      100       75       -25     100
Training                 2000     1500     -500     1000      900      -100     1000
Grants to NGOs            500      200     -300      100      :80       -20      100
Totals:   12500    8700    -3800      3300    2755      -545     3700



233                                  AnneiL24
Sample Poject To Date (PTD) Graph
Grants to NGO's                                                           -
.                     * ~~~~~Towa Spent FM 
Training       _
. ATouta Budgete ne
Materas   L__ 
Vehides_L                 
Com0uteost
Equipment
Furnturen
Civil Works
0    500  4ooo   1520060250 800 3000   3500  4000   5000
Sample Graph: This Period
Grants to NG'sm__
Training                                    - 
M.t al                                 Amount Budgete next6 
Vehicles                                  months|
Computers        w                           Amount Spent last 6 Months|
Equipment ~~~~ 's                    Amount Budgeted last 6 
Equiprnent e   . 8    =j        ~Months 
Fumiture                                                           |
Civil Works
0      200      400      600     800      10,00    12,00    140



234                                  Annex 24
Sample Graph: Expenditures this Period
Amount Spent last 6 Months
Fumiur
Civil Wors                            r/O
290%                                            Equipm_
18%
Gfants to NGOes  l                                             ces  4%
, ) illl 11111 i _ M*ineals 3%
Trining
3I%



235                              Annex 2S
Supeision Plan
General Rouffne Sunervison
1.        The core of the routine supervision process will be the six-monthly Bank supevsion
missions. An indispensable basis for this will be the six-monthly progrss reports to be
submitted by each state project directorate (see below for an outine of their format and content).
In addition, the large, costly and complex civil works component will be covered by a specidal
extra system of locally-based supervision.
2.        Mission Frequency. Scheduling. Programs: Regular Bank supervision missions wil
visit the project approximately every six months. Thus if the project is launched in mid-1994,
supervision missions would be scheduled between November, 1994 and January, 1995 and
between May and July, 1995; and so on for each year of the project.
3.        On each supervision mission there will be a joint meeting of all three state project
teams either in Delhi or in one of the state capitals (on a rotation basis). At this meeting, the
three project directors will present their six-monthly progress reports for review and discussion.
This meeting will also serve the purpose of disseminating and sharing experience between the
three states on a regular basis.
4.        On each supervision mission one of the project states will also be visited by the
mission, again on a rotation basis. The general meeting would normally be held in that state if
it is not held in Delhi. The visit would include field trips for the mission architect (see below)
and for other missions members as appropriate. Trbal or nomadic areas in every state will be
visited at least once every two years. In Assam, the distncts with autonomous district
development councils will be visited at least twice during the life of the project, at least once
in the first half and at least once in the second half; the councils will also be invited to
participate in any general project meeting held in Assam.
5.        Composition of Missions: The missions will be led by the Bank task manager and
will always include an architect (see below). In prnciple, the mission teams will also always
include specialists in public health, training, IEC and related areas, management, logistics and
MIS, but if this is not possible for any reason, a specialist from each of these areas will
participate in supervision missions at least once a year, including visits to each state at least once
in every two years. Or alternatively, if more convenient, specialists may visit the states
separately and individually by prior arrangement between the task manager and the project
directrates and MOHFW, in order to fulfil the requirement of technical supervision in each
technical area in each state at least once every two years. In addition, specialists in other areas
may occasionally be included in missions as needed.
0.        Additional Missions: In addition to the above, the task manager may visit states,
with or without specialist colleagues, in between routine supervision missions as needed for



236                               An= 25
trouble-shooting or emergencies, or during the first year of the project ir order to help ensure
that project implementation gets off to a smooth start. The task manager may also, by prior
arrangement with the project directorates and MOHFW, authorize individual specialists to make
separate between-mission visits to the states for similar puiposes.
7.        Special Arrangements fQr Civil Works: The civil works component in all states is
large and costly and covers more than eight hundred buildings of varyng types. It therefore
cannot be adequately supervised in the field by an architect visiting twice a year for a couple of
weeks. A pyramidal, locally-based system of field monitoring for this component will therefore
supplement the supervision anrangements described above. There will be three layers, as
follows:
(a)  The frst layer will be the maintenance of a civil works archi"e in the Human
Resources Unit (HRO) of the Bank's Delhi office, under the day-to-day supervision
of one of the HRO staff members. Project directorates will send particulars of each
new building for which construction begins to this archive. This will include final
as-buiit drawings and contracts entered into for the construction of one-off
buildings; and, for sub-centres, maps showing its placement in the network of
Family Welfare facilities of its district and its siting within the village (see the
model shown in Annex 6), plus a note describing how it responds to the list of
crntena for community and site selection given in Annex 6 and what the justification
is for any departure froiil the criteria.
(b) The second layer will consist of local architect consultants, preferably a firm, who
will report to the project task manager and will:
(1) review new arrivals in the archives once a month or once every two months,
depending on the volume of arrivals, and screen them for any departres from
cnteria or other features agreed upon at appraisal
(ii) approximately once every six months in each state, just prior to the regular
Bank supervision missions and under a briefing from the mission leader, visit
the state to al discuss cases departing from criteria with the project directorate
and b/ make. site visits to an appropriate sample of sub-centres buildings
departing from criteria plus a small random sample, drawn by the consultants,
of all other subcentres, first referral units and training facilities under
construction
(iii) after these visits, report their findings to the project directorate concerned and
to the regular mission architect at the start of the supervision mission, as well
as filing a report of the findings in the project archives
(c) The third layer will consist of the regular supervision missions. At the start of each
mission, the mission architect will review the reports of the local architect



237                             An= 25
consultants and discusF. them with the project directorate. The architect will then
make site visits, in the state visited by the mission, to any identified problem
buildings plus a random sample, drawn by him/her, of the buildings reviewed by
the local consultants during the previous six months.
8.        Design of the Six-Monthly Project Progress Report: A detailed format for the six-
monthly proect progress report, including dummy tables, is given in Annex 24. Its major
sections are summarised below. Corresponding computer software will be provided to the
management units of the project directorates for use in report preparation. This format will be
followed as is for the first year of the project. It will then be evaluated by the project
directorates in time for the third supervision mission, discussed at the joint meeting, and revised
as necessary by agreement between the project directorates and the mission team.
Ibe Ml-Tenn Project Review
9.        The Mid-Term Review of project progress will be carried out by the project
directorates, with a separate sub-review in each state, and submitted to IDA approximately half
way though the project period; if the project is launched in mid-1994, this point would be
approximately end-1997. The entire Review process should take two to three months. The
findings of the Review would then be discussed during the next regular supervision mission.
This mission would first hold a general meeting of all three states in Delh to discuss the
findings of the Review in all ftree states and then visit each state briefly for follow-up
discussions on the spot.
10.       The principal aim of the Mid-Term Review is to determine if there re any major
problems or issues in the project which necessitate re-thinking the original project design and
naing mid-ourse corrections. It also may be used for a preliminary evaluation of the impact
of the project, if the project has progressed sufficiently to expect any impact (see below).
11.       The Mid-Term Review will consist in each state of three core parts, plus opdonal
additional parts as appropriate. The rst part will consist of an internal stocktaking from the
project records and MIS of the progress of project activities as measured against the original
program and time schedule set out in the SAR and Implementation Volume (see Annex 26).
Notes should be included on the status of fulfillment of project agreements, on the reslts of the
evaluation of any project schemes that were launched on a pilot basis, and on progress with the
strategies for improving services to tribal and nomadic groups. The stocktaking may also
include indicators of the expansion and improvement of Family Welfare program services, as
measured through the program MIS, if the project has advanced fast enough for significant
improvement in these indicators to be expected; in this case data for tribal and nomadic groups
should be separated out and reported on in a special note.
12.       The second part will consist of an external review of project progress, caried out
in each state by visiting teams from the project directorates of the other two states. They would
review the results of the stocktaking above with the project directorate of the state under review,



238                             Annex2
and also make field trips as considered appropriate. This part of the Review will provide an
extemal view of progress, and also allow fuller transfer of experience between states.
13.       The third part will consist of a synthesis of the first two parts, in the form of a final
Mid-Term Review Report to be submitted to IDA and discussed with the following supervision
misson. It should highlight any major problems, issues, bottlenecks or delays in the project and
the prospects for resolving them and completing the project on time.
14.       The Mid-Term Review may be extended beyond these core three parts in any state
if this is considered appropriate and useful. The project directorates would decide upon the full
Review content, in consultation with IDA, at the beginning of planning for the Review. Further
elements of the Review could include:
(a)  a repeat of the training and communication needs assessments carried out as part of
project preparation; this should be done unless project implementation in these areas
has been so slow as to render a repeat useless at that point
(b)  a repeat of the baseline surveys (see Annex 23); this should be done if project
implementation has been rapid enough to generate an expected impact on baseine
indicators, and in any case if a picture of background trends during the first half of
the project period is wanted
(c)  special in-depth evaluative studies of any new schemes that appear particularly
promising or problematic from field reports or their regular evaluation
(d) reviews of project and/or FW program progress by an external agency, such as a
specialist consulting agency; such reviews were commissioned by the IPP V project
directorates on their own initiative, and were found usefil, but would be at the
discretion of each project directorate.
Role of the Resident Mission
15.       The human resources group of the New Delhi office has been strengthened to carry
out an increasing share of the supervision work for human resources projects in India. This
group will play an important role in this project. First, our senior public health adviser in Delhi
will participate in missions and follow-up on fundamental issues. Our local public health
specialist in Delhi will help monitor the project on a regular basis, follow-up on key
implementation issues, and trouble shoot in the field, as needed. He will be assisted by a local
staff specializing in the administration of projects. Procurement will be handled by the Deli
Office Prourement and Accounting Group. That same group will handle accounting, auditing,
disbursement, and flow of funds issues. These actions will be part of the overall supervision
program noted above.



239                             AnnL2
Qutlh of lbe Iamlmagnion Volume ad 1!m
1.       The Implementaton Volume' is a follow-up document to the Staff Appraisal
Report. It is intended to serve as a detailed guide to day-to-day implementaton of the project
and is preared in its final form by the implementing agencies  elves between negotiations
and prqect effectveness. An implementation volume' consists basically of a compilation of all
usefu background matris put together in the course of proect prearation, together with a
summary time-bound implementation plan for the entire project and detailed time-bound annual
implementation plans for at least the first year or two of acdvities. It may be better viewed not
as a single document, but as a set of files contining al neoessary referce materls as well
as a basic blueprint for implementation planning. In this project, the Stas of Assam, Rajasdhan
and Kamrataka would each prepare their own Imnplementin Voume.
2.        What follows is an indicative outline of the contents of each of the three
Implementaion Volumes that would be put together by Assam, Rajasthan and Karnatak
respectvely, for ue as a guide to their preparation.
The Summar ImplMOemnain Plan for the Projec
3.        The core of this implementation plan would be a timetable of major project
actvities, along the lines of a Gant chart, Pert chart or CPM. For the summary plan, time need
only be shown hi blocks of months, say quarters of a year, and activities in each component of
the project can be summarised in broad categories. This plan timetable should be kept
permanntly on the project management unit's computer system and updated continuosly by
management and MIS staff. Print-outs could then be produced at regular intervals, say every six
months, for information and use by other project staff. To supplement the timetable, a text
would be added describing the major features of the plan, together with any notes needed on
deails of its content.
4.        The Implementation Volume itself would contain only the first plan timetable and
text produced at the begining of the project, which would set the foma to be used. The latest
print-out would then be included in each six-monthly progress report submitted to IDA (see
Annex 24). An indicative example of a summary plan/timetable, using a Gantt chart format, is
shown in Table A:28.1.
ThAe Detailed Annal Imn*a=f  Plans
S.        The core of the annual implementation plan would be a set of timetables for each
year of the project, covering all activities planned under each component of the project, again
in the form of a Gantt chart, Pert chart, CPM etc. Again, the timetables should be supplemented
by as detailed a text as is necessary.
6.        For planning purposes, the timetables should be prepared at the end of each project
or fiscal year (whichever is more convenient) for rolling time-periods of two years, ie., a



240                             An6
plan/timetable for the fist two years should be prpre at the beginnig of the project; then at
the end of the first year, the plan/timetable for the second year should be revised in the light of
the achievements of the first year and a plan/timetable for the third year added; then at the
beginning of the third year the plan/timetable for the second year should be reWsed and a
plan/timetable for the fourth year added; and so on.
7.        Again, these plans/timetables should be permanently kept on the project management
unit computer and updated continuously by management and NIS staff. Only the first two-year
plan/timetable should be included in the Implementadon Volume for reference, and to set the
format Print-outs should then be produced at regular intervals, say once or twice a year, for
information and use by other proect staff. For sx-monthly progress reports to be submitted to
IlDA, a year's time-slice should be produced and included in the report, showing the
plan/timetable for the previous six months and for the following six months. An indicative
example of a year's detailed implementation plan, using a Gantt chart format, is shown in Table
A: 28.2.
Suggted Bamksm2kMaterials
For Each State:
8.        Ihe consolidated final project proposal prepared by the State (mcluding any changes
or additions agreed to at or after appraisal.
9.        Reports of background studies or needs assessments carried out as part of project
preparation, including the Training Needs Assessment, the Communicaton Needs Assessment,
the Beneficiary Needs Assessment, any additional studies of tribal or migratory areas, and the
Logistics Study.
10.      The Bank Staff Appraisal Report.
11.       Detailed cost tables for the State, as prepared by IDA.
12.       The national Action Plan and the State Action Plan.
13.       Building plans or model building plans for civil works under the project.
14.       Any other supporting documentation from project prepartion that would be useful
as a guide during implementation which is not included in any of the above documents.
15.      IDA procurement guidelines.



241                                    AnDIL26
1uwmwllPa an_Tme
Project Manaunt: Seven Year Plans
Sevn Year Implemenvaion Tne-Limne
Project mangement includes the plannmg and tadng of all activities. The initial step in project planning
u to prepare an ovwall timeline for the prjt This time-line should include an outlne of al genral
actvities and "milestones" which will oca  during the project
The seven year time-line forms the basis of the annul plan pepaatk  for the project An integral part of
the seven yea plan will be the projection of intmediat indicators for the whole project, scaled for
appropriate goals for each year of the project
The fomal time-line should be prepad in sch a way as to allow for easy modifications as project activities
are completed. Computerized time-lines should be used for l acdvikies whih are to be completed under
the project.
Projection ofProject Acies mpact
The preparon of the sven year time-line should focus on the key cagories of activities which will occu.
specific project actviies, notably those which significantly eft the implementation of other acivities,
such as the completion of ting faciities por to omement of tning progams, should be detailed.
The intemediate idicators should be defined retve to the overall goals of the project, and possible project
unpact Wbthin the seven year plan the  temediate idtrs should be proritid and linked to specific
activies and project objectives.
TrackhgandAna/Iyss ofProject Act vtr and Draw&
The intermediate indiatrs are the stg  point for the trakg and analysis of project activities and
impacts. Additionally, thse indicts will be used for the development of the amnual implemention plan
to be prepared eacb year. Each of the indicators dsould be projected based on past experience for the
dumtion of the projecL  Actual actvites will be tracked agamst the projected values and modified as
necessary based on project actvies and monitoing ifmat
The development of models for the impact of project activities should be reflected m the seven year
projecdons for the intermediate india   Addi, a model should be prepared outling the expected
relation betweon the different intermediate indicatos and project activities. Tese models do not have to
necessarily be quantatve in nae, but rather should reflect the interaction of expected project acvities
and possible  mpacts in services deliver, et.



SAMPLE: SEVEN YEAR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1994             1996               1996              1997             198               199               2000
10  hamN"                              Oaon   011021Q3104 a1102 Q3 -04  01Q20Q3lQ4  011021Q30314  01 02  03  04 01  02   0304  0  102103
I  PROJECT SUPERVISION                   1979d    .                                                                                                              -ft--
2       AppbII                              04    *
3       SAR Piepaal                        44d      _
4       Elfecnvenes                         0d4
ccofw Conference                   14d
6       EVALUATIONS                       1914d   .
t IPROJECT MANAGEMENT                     2555d                                                                                                                  -
t2      Pfec Impemenl     Plas            26564                                                                                                            _ 
20      PoecIStaff AssIgnments             36..
26      Pboed Staff Trabinin               5804 .
26  CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS                 15174                               t_
27      TraInng FaceS                      45.                                                    .
33      fRU Cons _n                        820.
38      PHC Costructo                     13974                            .                                                                                     -
43      PlC Upade                         13974                                                                                                                  -
48      Sub-Cet ConstuctI                 1397d .4 
63  HMISIMIS PROJECTS                      3004                              w
-    IECACTTIMES                           390d         V
66  INNOVATNE SCHEMES                     1397d
S9  TRtAIMNiN  IMPLWEMETATIOH4             4074
70         wkeqlap   Trannt Ilnlk*hfure    3k64          -                v
78      Iwo  TNin Qualy                    265d
as  StreglenTrab*tgMm emetd            1894
so  Ta-t  - -1    f 
60   TrainIng   Programs  2804        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_



Task Name          Duration    Qi      Q2 1                                    Q3    -
Project kmplementation143m
Pre-Project Activities      3.00 mE
Construction Contrac      2.00 m     _
Project Staff Prepar      3.00 mC
Equipment Constracts      8.40 w
Project Effectiveness       0.00 W            A
Di-Yearly supervision       0.00 w
Annual supervision          0.00 w
Pnoect Activites              14.60m in             n          _0yw
Project Management          4.00 mr
Project Staff Descri      2.00 m_
Project Staff Appoin      2.00 m                    _
Construction Projects      11.48 m                                I_
Contract Advertizeme      2.00 w
Proposal Review           2.00 m
Selection of Bids         1.00 m_
Construction Comence      0.00 w
On-Going Constructio      6.00 m                           won= inDw                         w
Training Programs           5.26 m
ANM Training              5.26 m
Plan Training Mate      5.60 w
Schedule Trainings      3.80 w
Arrange Training S      4.80 w
Training Class          2.00 m
MO Training               3.39 m
HMIS Implementation         8.16 m_
Print Registers           2.00 w
District MO orientat      2.00 w
Train District Healt      5.40 w
Train NICNET Personn      2.00 w
Collection of Inform      6.00 m
Review of HNIS            2.00 w
IEC Activities             14.50 m                                                                I-----
Equipment Purchases         2.00 a
I 



244                                     Anpa 26
Project Management: Annual Plans
Project Time-Line of Activities & Annual Implementation Plans
Annual Implementation Plans
The goal of the Annual Plan is to prepare a working document for the next year which will guide all project
activities. The plan should include all goals and objectives for the year. As part of the prepartion of the
Annual Plan a time-line of key project activities should be prepared. Additionally, analysis of current targets
and indicators should be reviewed to determine the effectiveness of past activities.
Annual plans will be submitted by the project within the first month of the project year.
Project Activities and Goals
All activities for the year should be specified in detail and related to overall project goals.
Descriptions of activities should be prepared in "Action Plan" format including:
* Category of activity
*  How activity addresses project goals
-  Description of activity
p Dates for specific activities (i.e. training programs, etc.)
-  Person(s) responsible for activities
- Constraints to implementation
Project Budget Estimation
Budgets for all activities should be submited. Budget submissions should include:
- Costs for all planned activities;
- Graphically presented distribution of expected expenses;
- Graphically presented planned expenditures vs. past expenses for project activities;
Time-Lnes
To facilitate the implementation of activities relevant time-lines should be systematically
maitained using a computerized system. Computerizion of time-lines can be maintained in either
a specific "Project Management" software system, or within a activity specific computer system
(e.g. project construction tracking software system).
Time-lines should be prepared and maintained for a two year period including the past and current
years. Information should be maintained on planned and actual dates for activities. "Critical Path"
activities (i.e. need for training centre to be completed prior to commencement of tamining) should
be maintained within the project management system.
"Gant" charts should be submited with the Annual PlanL Additionally, all critical path reports
should be submitted with a discussion of possible project impact, and methods for ensuring activity
completion.
Anaeysis of Targets
The Annual Plan should include a detailed analysis of intermediat project indicators. Whero
appropriate analysis should include:
* Trends analysis (i.e. linear regressions, see example)
* Graphical representation of information
* Statistically demonstrable relation between project activities and changes in indicators
All targets should be represented as either "coverage" of actual popuation groups or as relative rates
of change, rather than percentage of "estimated" targets.



245                                        Annelx2
Project Management Information Strategies
Project management information systems as a tern is applied to a variety of different computer and paper
based systems. This continually leads to confusion in definitions and purposes in specifying the type of
project systems should would best be put in place for tracking specific project activities.
"Project Management" Software
These systems are used for tracking specific activities based on an established model of the linkages between
activities and times for the activities. Project Management systems are highly structuied software systems
which allow for the definition of activities, start dates, etc. and thereby allow for the projection of activity
completion, and impact of delays for the overall projeet based on delays for specific activities.
The best example of these systems are the ones which use Time-Line charts, and CPM. The display of the
information is usually limited to the activities and their relations, without substantial reporting capacities for
numeric reports (e.g. number of ANMs trained in the last year).
These systems are best suited for activities which are highly structured, and time critical. (i.e. many activities
are related in such a way so that if one activity is delayed, the other activities will be effected.)
Project Management Systems
Another type of project management systems are those which are designed to track a specific category of
activity (i.e. construction , training participation, etc.). Even though these systems are considered "Project
Management" they differ substantially in the type of information gathered, and the potentials for information
manipulation and presentation.
Whereas the Time-Line systems show the relationship between activities, Activity information systems
define information for specific activities, such as training program information (i.e. location, # trained, etc.).



246                                         Annex26i
SAMPLE Annual Implementation Plan
Budget Estimations
llnvestment Costs                                 1996 Total
CviilWorks (New)                       38.2       38.
Cti Works (Rehab.)                     17.8       17.8
vehtlos                                15.1       15.1
Eq2dpirion                             13.6       13.6
Local Training                          5.9      _5.8
Furnthre                               4.4         4.4
Revolvng Funds for Staff Mobility       3.2        3.2
IEC Materials & Activites               2.4        2.4
Grants to NGOs                          0.4        0.4
Books                                   0.3        0.3
Feflowshs                               0.3        0.3
Trn  Mabt                               0.2         0.2
Hsea  Kis                               0.2        0.2
Local Conas                             0.2        0.2
rnovtha scthems                         0.2         0.2
Grants to Phmacy Insuts                 0.2        0.2
Total Investment Costs               102.6       102.6
[Rojcurnt Costs                               ._99_
Salaries of Addional Staff              2.4        2.4
Consumabes                              2.0        2.0
Equipmt & Fl eet                        1.4 M      1.4
CiGl Works Malntence               1        _ 0. _    0.8
lnnoentiwe to WHP                  0___    0_____
TA/DA                               _      0.2|    0.2
Drugs IMCH Supplies                     0.1        0.1
I Total Recurrent                        7.6        7.B
ITotal Base Costs                                1102        110.2



247                                               AMDCLZ2
Amnu  Plan 1996: 1_atnn Cos
Grubtsto Phamacy Idfntit
hmnoutiw Sun
Lod 
Heallh KIts
Trainng Marials
Bok
Grarns to NGOs
IEC Materials& Adivitle
Reolving Fund fo Staff Mbility
LocalTrainig   a______
F   .d  -   .  I               .
Vees              ,         ,_       _
Civil Woft e(Rheab.)                             ,           .                _
Civil W s (New)         -_,_                   ,      _     __r_                             a
0.0       5.0      10.0      15.0      20.0      25.0      30.0      3S.0       40.0
Rupee M ain
AnnulPla 1996: R fCost
Comaumables
Salatis of Additiona Staffu
0.0              0.5              1.0             1.5              2.02.
Rupee MLflion



248                                   Ann=  26
bwso Com:
Ima Sch=cnduW 0%
Ttmgb    Xi_\  Civil Works New 3S%
12%A
8%
.!            ~~ ~~~FumbEupKt                      CivlWorksRdm
147%                                16%
Rcrnt Costs:
TAMDA & WHP
8°/e                      Staff
Consumables/Drug
30%o
BUUldMaint
36%



249                                                               Annex 26
-i---  Cil Works New                              Investment Costs:
70  T                    Civil Works Rehab                                                   . 
60 t-l          *-  1Fum'vqPth
50            L  Vehicles
40                                        ..                                         ........ ........ ........................  .......... ...................=
20                                                                       ..............
0o 
1                     2                     3                     4                     5                    6                      7
{   -   -   -  Investment Costs:
*Trrg /Books
25           {         IEC Material.                                  .. ..... ............     ............     ........ .......................................
20                      GraCtWFellowships         .                               ........
tUL    iaSChemC, ..... ... .. ..........I.......................... ........... ........................ .........................
10  --*--   oslants
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-i          - *  StaffRecurent Costs:
1                       2      M4 TAII                                                                                   A .     ....................................................................................................................
I    0        Consuma                                                   ...  .t.
6
1              ~          ~ ~                   ~ ~                   ~~2  3  4   5                    6                      7



250                                    Annex 26
Total Costs:
500-  t rInvestmnt Costs
1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001
Anmual Implementation Plan
Key Project Indicators
Prolect imnact Indicators
State       __._.
Base-Line   Current  Projecte
d
CBR (er 1000)               27.5        25       21
CPR % (Total)               29.3        35       60
CPR % Pernanent Methods   X             _
CPR % TemporaryAMethods
Total Fertility Rate (TFR)            _   .
IMR (per 1000)              77.0        60       50
MMR (per 100,000)           40          30       20
CMR (per 1O)i               41.2        20      15



251                                    Annex 26
Physical Completion Tarmets
STATE                    # to complete in  # to complete  Total completed
________________________  Project       this vear      under project
SC's
PHC's
Training Institutions
Boat Clinics
Mobile Clinics
FRU 's                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ __.
CHC to FRU
Dispensary to PHC
SC, Rehabilitated
PHC's Rehabilitated_
CHC's Rehabilitated                  .
Intennediate Indicators for Annual Plan
Indicator                               Base-      Current  Planned  PrJeced
Line
Health/FW Status & Services
%/ Coverage Maternal Immunizations                 ___
% Coverage Children Immunizations                 _
% Temporay contractiwve use
% Permanent contraceptive use
# Children ORT Treatment                           ___    __
# ANM Resident                                     _        _
% ANM Resident                 _                   _______      _
# Visits/Month byANM A___   _
% SC's with own building                _ __  _



252                                       AgM26
% Institutional Births                        .
% Births at FRU
% Births aended by health staff                               _
% Pregnant with ANC care
% Children Vit-a Supplements _  _
% Pregnant Women getting Iron    i:____                       _
ProLect/Program Manaaement Indicators
% Comnplete project staffing (vacant positions
/ person months)_    ..
% and $ Project Expenditre vs. Buyget (by
component I.II,.,IV, Innovative Schemes)
$ allocated in     SAR / Sancdoned by GOI_
% FW Plvgram Posts filled by levellCatego y
% Coverage of available Supplies
Training Indicators
% and # MO's Trained
%o/ and # ANdas Trained (by type of mtrinsng)
%  EC and #    gHVa Trened (by ape of twedng)r
% and # WNosn Tained (ba tvPe of saining)
% and  # Paramedicals  Trained (by type of
traininR)
% Sell level by (Category of stariSkig s to be
specified)
_   _    ~~EC Indicators                                  X_      _
% of items in annual EEC plan comoleted_
%/ of $ eqxpnded a,gainst target for nmaterials
% IEC message awvareness by targeted groups
(per IEC Plan) ___
% awareness Non-Terminal Methods
X % awarenes.s Small Family Norms_
.  °/awareness Lgal age of Marriage
% awareness Non-Terminal Methods
NGO/Innovative Schemes_______                                     ___
Number of innovative schemes imElemented
# NGO's participating
Estimated NGO Population Coverage
Infrastructure Indicators
# & % Facilities under construction &
Completed (by category, % completed)
S over/under budget (bf type of facilites)
% facilities commissioned and completed                           .
SCs
PHCs
Warehouses                                                   _
Training Institutions                    _                              _
Boat Clinics
Mobile Clinics                                  .
% facilities upgraded to new category
CHC to FRU                                                 .



253                                     Annex 26
Disp. to PHC                                                   .
% facilities rebabilitatedluPgraded.           _   .
SC                _                                                -
PHHC,i_                                                 __
CHC__                                                    _  _  _  _  _   __  _    _
Training Institutions              ,_._._
% facilities fully equipped, staffed and
functioning                                                      _
SC                                                  _                     _
PHC                                _...=                                ii
FRU)_                                       _  _  _  _ _  _               _  _  _
CHC                                      _                              . _
Warehouses
Mobile Clinics
Boat clinics__________



sioOBel yjodwj ol uopaofo[d nseull Bujsn fo aldwSx3  O10N
POInoIeM               ,                r  Uid ;1PJCd   I
%99            0M8s             00Z              S0009    000                        sOJIg isuolInpISul #
%t %_t                          %9v               %09    %99                        s4)jwg euonisuo           %
peaedx3                euwu 
WOJJ   Sl41 Joj   Wsa Jo  )qDJqL    aun
eauoJeM,a pepafojd sI )uWAljn  -pu______________
S-unfll-g   00-ueI-& "l ue$-U9J9.                       SOwa OUJo@Jog j
00?             000?             666- S6                           MG               966&.            988.               8             £661             ?81.                  1._,
IOO            OOO              6S6             866              L68               08[             S[S                                 SI             Z6
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0?
.......................  ......  ........    ................. ................................................................... .......... ............... .............................................................. ...........................o
ffi................................................... ...  ...................... ......... ............I................I.................................................. .............................   ..........   ..........   ........o
(%4
.......   ..........   ..   ..............  ........  ........   ...  ..................................................................................  ....................  ...........I........................ .............  .............................................. 
Z 19           t 6t    9WD'                    8'St   '              Z Zt *0* 9V SW                                9,9              St            Z-£t    UOIswee
Z-£t   uolaewui
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 8-   edolS
01.            6               8                .        9           9 S'                         s 8             Z                               0             das
9t              9£               0£              8              St                               eSw  WON
Aq poput*4w lstI %
WO00           000Z            888S             881.  L81    681    881.                          *88;1    £68Z1    ,81                           1.81                 ;              ~       iopq
sisAieu uo, sseJfie
sspAouy )9e5  uDJodoSj JowsoJpuul .idwes



255                                  Annex 26
Demostration Construction Target Model
Year     Planned    Planned       Actual      Actual     % Years  % of Cumulative
Cumulative   Constructed Cumulative Target   Target
1994         50           50          10          10      20%            20°h
1995        100          10         100         110     100%            73%
1998        120          270         120         230     100%            85%
1997        120          390         100         330      83%            85%
1998        120          510         105         435      88%            85%
1999        120          630          80         515      67%            82%
2000         70          700         100         615     143%             88%
Total:           700                      6151
0                                           umvPlanned vs. Actual Constmcted  Planed
120                                                 Actlilll :C_o;n=gZ lwll Actual Cumltve
20.,'o ~   ~      97  99  20
j~~ ~~~19           1995/   199    1997 1998t  I  199    200011il
,          1994   l~~~995  19>9619  19978 98 199 20 
600~ ~ ~~~~~~20



Annual Implementation Plan
Project Activities and Goals
Category of   How Addresses        Desctiption of Activity               Start  End   Office/Persons       Constraints to
Activity      Prolect Goals                                              Date   Date   Responsible         Implementation
____-  _ _____   _ __                           _      _     _     _                   __ __ ____ _ 



SAMPLE 1ST YEAR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1994                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1995
ID  Name                                Duration  Jun  Jul  Ag S    Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb| Mar  Apr May  Jun   Jul                sep  Oct Nov  Dec  Jan  feb Iar
1  PROJECT SUPERVISION                    1979d
2       Appaisal                             Od
3       SAR Preparation                     44d
4       Effectveness                         Od   .
5       KIckof Conference                   14d       _
6       EVALUATIONS                       1914d     -
7           Mid-Term Evaluon               848d
8           End of Project E_alion         719d
9           Project Impact Evauation       324d
10          Project Complet                  Id
I1  PROJECT MANAGEMENT                    255Sd
12      Project Implementatlon Plans      255d .
13          Year One Pkn              365d
14          Year Two Plan                  365d
15          Year Three Plan                365d
16          Year Four Plan                 365d
I17         Year Five Plan                 35
la          Year Sbk Plan                  365d 
I19         Year Seven Pbn                 365d                                                                                                                                   s
_ ~ ~      _ _ _ _ _ __                                                                                                                                                         -
20      Prlec tSaffAsWris-                #^t _ 3_  ,5d. 
21          HRD Cell                       153d                                          -
22          MIS Cell                       153d
23          Constucbon Cell                261d
24          Project Peronnel StaffIg       365d
25      Project Staff TraInntg             580d
26  CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS                 1517d_
27      Tran* Faclles                      4L5d
28          Contract Oenon                  30d
29          Coltrad Tenders                  Od
30          Tender RevIwAwards              30d
31          SIHFW Consuction               365d
32          District Trabfg Centr Const    150d                                                                                                             -
33      FRU ConstructIon                   820d
34          Contract DefinItion             30d
35          Coract Tenders                                                                           .                                                                            ;6OdP
,. . ' - .Pop|
pvt                                                                    R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



SAMPLE 1 ST YEAR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
"14                                                           1996
ID Nane                _uUO  JunA Ju I Aua I Sep  Oct I Nov I Dec jan I Feb IMasr  Apr May Ju-n I Jtd |Au   S    Oct Nov                          Jan Feb Mar
36          Tentler Review Awaerds        30d
37          FRU Conution                 700d
38       PHC Conbuon                     1397d
39          Cotact De lons                30d
40          Contract Tenders              sod
4t          Tentder Review Awards         30d
42          PHC ConsVuciortl            1277d
43      PHC Up-rade                     1397d
44          Contract Defninllons          30Sd 
45          Coftrd  Tender                GOd
46          Tender Review Award           30d
47          PHC UP-Grades               1277d
48      Sub-Center Consbw               1397d
49          Contract Den                  30d
So          Contract Tenders              60d                                                              _                                                               00
5t          Tender Review Awards          30d
2           SSub-Center ConbuctIon      1277d
53  HMtSAMtS PROJECTS                    300d
64      Report Fom PrintdM                30d
_5      HMtS OrIetation                   30d                -
so      NIC Staff Trin                    30d
67      Oti  Staff Traint g                m                                        _
58      HMIS Dat Coetdon Testin          120d
50      HMtS Sytem EvalatIon              30d 
60  IEC ACTMTtES                         3Od .
e1      KAP Survey                         0id
62      IEC Stratgy Ienta                 30i ,d
6t      Materbias Devepment 
64      Focus Group Testig                3_
65      MatrIal Produtin                  30d
es      Co Y _uti  Distfrbti n150d_
07      IEC Srategy Evauation             30d
6S  INNOVATIVE SCHEMES                   1397d
69  TRAINING IMPLEMENTATION               407d
70       eelopet Train  Inrastrutre I__                                             |                                                            



SAMPILE 1ST YEAR IMPtEMENTATION PLAN
.194                                                    1995
ID  NM*                           Duation Ju nJI Aug Sep Oct INO          cJonFab        Ar       Jun  IF Aug Sep OdtN    DeCeI
71         Ren Staul for HRD Cal      30d
-          TrIin CiiWs Connmen    3d
73         Equlp.Aluiii* Procureei    75d
74            Proue Tr     ads akt .   0                                           __
75_  Pro Urx  Books                   30d
-             Proeue VeNd.. for 81H   7_                                                      _
7t            Pmoue fiawb  fo rSIH    _Od
78    IMVroe TraiWng QulaftS5
79         Cu        u eb b          120d
80         Omlopaep Mis for Trainr     Od_
el         Ttaln Tt_m f HFWTC         3Od
82         TRb ablo  iwd OIaU Tw      90d---
63         W9S*e Tra" fbr Fautay      _W
84         FM  d atbf T_V    E Od_
as      _ -wrnh  Trakibwgmnnt        18W
so         AppoWi lobtk Id D TabTd    SWd
67         IbbiWAnmaPlmigPire         _W
as         Deom Trll*ib*rm   30    Dd
s9     TrIng Proams                  2
OD        aGNU Tr.b*0                 _W
91         Cm.mum  PremooTrtl T0d                      _
92         TM" d Dbbbl _sta           8Wd
93         lIclin Tri for MPWm        am
94          4uaeid  Tranng for MPWI   -W----_---__-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



260                             Anex2
Selected Documents in Project Fles
1.   Action Plan for Revamping the Family Welfare Programme in India. Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi.
2.    Family Welfare and Child Survival & Safe Motherhood Action Plan fOr 1994-95.
3.    Technical Notes - Assam.
4.    Aide Memoire, World Bank Review Mission (Assam), September 28-October 6,
1993.
5.    World Bank Assisted Rajasthan Health and Family Welfare Project. Ninth Population
Project, Rajasthan Proposal for the Appraisal Mission. Department of Medical,
Health and Family Welfre, Government of Rajasthan, April 1993.
6.    Strengthening of Family Welfare and Mternal and Child Health Sevices. Prect
Proposal. Health and Family Welfare Deptment, Karnataka, August 1993.



