Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23855
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26300)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 62.7 MILLION (US$88.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
FAMILY WELFARE (ASSAM, RAJASTHAN AND KARNATAKA) PROJECT
June 21, 2002
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.0204
US$ 1.00 = Rupee 48.95
FISCAL YEAR
April     - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANM                              Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
CBR                              Crude Birth Rate
CDR                              Crude Death Rate
CHC                              Community Health Centre
CPR                              Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CVs                              Community Volunteers
EFC                              Expenditure and Finance Committee (GOD
FAQ                              Frenquently Asked Questions
FRU                              First Referral Unit
FW                               Family Welfare
GOI                              Govemment of India
HFWTC                            Health and Family Welfare Training Centre
HMIS                             Health Management Information System
ICB                              Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                              Intemational Development Association
IEC                              Information, Education, Communication
IMR                              Infant Mortality Rate
IPP                              India Population Project (I through IX)
LCB                              Local Competitive Bidding
LHV                              Lady Health Visitor
MCH                              Matemal and Child Health (care, services, program)
MIS                              Management Information System
MTR                              Mid-term Review
MTFP                             Mid-term Fiscal Plan
NGO                              Non-Govenmmental Organization
PDS                              Public Distribution System
PHC                              Primary Health Centre
PHN                              Public Health Nurse
PMIS                             Project Management Information System
PRIM                             Panchayat Raj Institution Members
RCH                              Reproductive and Child Health Project
SCHAC                            Sub-Centre Health Advisory Committee
SMO                              Senior Medical Officer
TBA                              Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR                              Total Fertility Rate
Vice President:     Meiko Nishimizu
Country Director:      Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:     Charles C. Griffin
Task Teamn Leader       Sadia Afroze Chowdhury



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
POPULATION IX
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                              18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
Annex 8. Government's Contribution to ICR                                               35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010457                                      Project Name: Family Welfare Project
Team Leader: Sadia Afroze Chowdhury                      TL Unit. SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 21, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Family Welfare Project                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-26300
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Child Health
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/31/1992                             Effective: 09/22/1994        09/20/1994
Appraisal:  12/15/1993                               MTR: 12/18/1998            12/18/1998
Approval:  06/16/1994                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOI/TBD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President       Mieko Nishimizu                          Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Anabela Abreu                             Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:  Sadia Afroze Chowdhury                   Althea Hill
ICR Primary Author:  Laura Kiang; Tazim Mawji
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had two original objectives as stated in the SAR: (1) To strengthen and improve the
functioning of the Family Welfare programs in Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka; and (2) To lower the
current levels of fertility, and maternal and childhood mortality in the three states.
The project's goal was to provide further support to the Govemment of India (GOI), national Family
Welfare Program in three focus states (Assamn, Karnataka, and Rajasthan). The objectives of the project
were realistic and consistent with the needs in the Farnily Welfare sector, as detailed in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), and the national and state Action Plans for revamping the Family Welfare
Program. The implementation arrangements were consistent with the capacities of each state, however,
during the project preparation process, it was noted that the risks of implementation varied across the
states. Many of the approaches and strategies to be implemented by the project such as those related to the
outreach and community linkage schemes, and logistics component were new, innovative and untested in
the Family Welfare Program. In addition, in Assam, there was a lingering security concern, the control of
which was beyond the scope of the project. However, the objectives were clear to the GOI and the
implementing states and commitments regarding implementation of the action plan were obtained from
them during appraisal and negotiations.
Both childhood mortality and fertility rates in India had fallen significantly during the 1980s. The
contraceptive prevalence rate had risen to more than 40% and immunization coverage had reached 85%.
Despite these achievements, the national Family Welfare Program continued to suffer from long-standing
implementation problems such as inadequate financing, weak and over centralized management, inadequate
supervision, low quality training, and inadequate attention to activities for demand generation, outreach and
community linkages. If not addressed, these threatened further progress in reducing fertility, and matemal
and childhood mortality.
To address these issues, the GOI launched efforts to restructure the Family Welfare Program through its
"Action Plan for Revamping the Family Welfare Program in India". This plan included a central strategy
for improving the performance and impact of the entire program, as well as state plans reflecting the central
strategy. Major assistance for putting the strategy into operation was support by IDA including the 4th,
5th, 6th and 7th Population Projects, the Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project, and the national Child
Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM) Project. This project provided support to the Action Plan in
Assam, Karnataka and Rajasthan and increased outreach and coverage to the underserved and rural
communities in the entire state of Assam, and the 10 and 13 most underserved districts in Rajasthan and
Kamataka respectively. It also helped to develop the state's physical infrastructure and facilities to provide
improved quality of health and family welfare services to mostly poor beneficiaries.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No changes were made to the original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The following lists the components as originally stated in the SAR:
1)     Strengthening Facilities for Delivery of Family Welfare Services (US$55.2 million) through (a)
extension and upgrading of Family Welfare infrastructure in underserved areas including rehabilitation of
existing facilities, establishment of ancillary mobile clinics, transport for outreach and supervision; and (b)
strengthening of outreach and commnunity linkages and participation systems using community volunteers.
-2 -



2)    Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services (US$23.8 million) through (a)
strengthening and rationalization of training institutions and programs; (b) improvements in logistics
systems for medical supplies and transport; (c) the provision adequate drugs and medical supplies; and (d)
involvement of Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) and private medical practitioners (PMPs).
3)     Strengthening of Demand Generation Activities (US$ 11.1 million) through (a) strengthening and
rationalization of Information, Education and Communication (IEC) institutions and programs; (b) lEC
training for service providers and community volunteers; (c) EEC materials production; and (d) selected
IEC activities.
4)     Strengthening Family Welfare Program Management (US$9.6 million) through (a) development
of states Management Information System (MIS) and planning capabilities; (b) development and
monitoring of service delivery strategies for populations with special needs; (c) an office building for the
Assam Department of Family Welfare; and (d) upgrading of staffing and equipment in the Ministry of
Health and Famnily Welfare (MOHFW)'s Area Projects Division.
5)    Innovative Schemes and Preparation of Future Investments (US$4.2 million) through (a) small
pilot innovative schemes to improve service delivery; and (b) preparation of proposals for Family Welfare
investment in the heavily tribal and underdeveloped states of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura in the Northeast.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were revised several times over the life of the project. There was a change in the
scope of civil works being supported by the project. Another was the diversion of funds for the Gujarat
Emergency Earthquake Assistance Project. And a third revision was the agreement at Mid Term to closely
integrate the implementation of the training, EEC and community mobilization activities planned under this
project with that supported through the IDA assisted Reproductive and Child Health project.
The mid-term review (MTR) identified a price escalation in civil works which was much higher than that
was anticipated at project appraisal. This was also aggravated by a slippage of the planned works from the
earlier to later years. The MTR recommended an additional provision for civil works to provide for
escalation and cost over-runs to complete the number of works, and the other software activities in
accordance with the project objectives. To accommodate this, and also avoid a disproportionate increase in
the category, the total number of works in the three states were reduced and the amount of the IDA credit
between expenditure categories in the Schedule I form of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were
adjusted.
The steady devaluation of the Rupee against the US Dollar during the project period (the Rupee devalued
from Rs. 33.9 per USD at appraisal to Rs. 48.95 per USD at project completion), led to project savings.
After the earthquake in Gujarat in 2001, US$10.0 million (SDR 7.8 million equivalent) of the project
savings was reallocated for the IDA supported Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Assistance Project.
Recognizing that the activities of this project and the IDA supported RCH projects were quite similar and
focussed towards the same audience - the woman and child at the household level - and also the fact that
management capacity at the states was limited, it was agreed, that the training, IEC, and community
mobilization activities would be integrated and closely coordinated so as to orient the community to the
paradigm shift from a vertical family planning concept to the integrated reproductive health and rights
based approach, to avoid duplication of efforts, and, to produce a demonstrable impact on health and
-3 -



fertility. The training targets were subsequently revised with the load for awareness generation training
being incorporated in the RCH project, and the content of the skill development training under this project
being revised to reflect the same training undertaken by the RCH project.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
The project was designed before routine quality assessments at entry were initiated and so there was no
formal QAG rating. However, as the program fitted well with both the Bank and the borrower strategies,
and the GOI and the participating states had given their commitments during appraisal and negotiations
that the project's components were appropriate to their institutional capacities, the project's quality at entry
is rated as satisfactory for the purposes of this report.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of both objectives was satisfactory.
The first objective, which was to strengthen and improve the functioning of the Family Welfare program in
the three states, was satisfactory. The project provided for an expansion in the Family Welfare service
delivery system in the participating states through the construction, equipping and upgrading of 2,655
sub-centers, 125 PHCs, 433 staff quarters, 316 FRUs (with the addition of an operating theatre), 29 drug
warehouses, and 46 state and district level training institutions. Most of the planned civil works were
completed as planned, except in Rajasthan where 6% of the facilities remain incomplete.
96,739 medical and paramedical professionals were provided with in-service training to upgrade their
skills. In terms of IEC, the project provided support to the ongoing activities being implemented by the
Family Welfare IEC Bureau in each state. Although planned, due to the limited capacity in the states,
efforts to develop and implement innovative initiatives for demand generation, especially through the
private sector, were constrained.
The IDA supported national Reproductive and Child Health Project also started during the life of the
project (1997). This provided support in all states for the development of management and specialized
technical skills, access to services for the under-served population, and demand-generation through
innovative initiatives. Therefore, it was decided at the MTR that the efforts of the two projects would be
coordinated in the three participating states, and the targets and resources (in training, IEC and social
mobilization), would be combined. This prevented duplication of efforts and provided a strengthened focus
on training and IEC, especially during the last three years of the project, as well as led to a revision of
outcome indicators for training and EEC in the three states.
The second objective was to lower the levels of fertility, and maternal and childhood mortality. During the
seven and a half year life of the project, all three states showed moderate to significant improvements in
these indicators (see Annex 1). Direct attribution of the project to these outcomes is difficult as there were
other simultaneous development efforts in the health and family welfare sector, as well as in education,
water and sanitation, and rural development. However, it is reasonable to infer that the improvements in
the Family Welfare sector in the three states, sponsored by the project, contributed to the improvement in
outcomes for fertility, contraceptive prevalence, and infant and child mortality.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project aimed to improve the performance of the currently weak family welfare programn in the three
focus states through the strengthening of program infrastructure and support systems necessary to
maximize the program coverage, accessibility and quality as well as the many innovative initiatives to
- 4 -



improve upon current service approaches in conformity with the action plan strategy. This project was
envisaged as a bridging operation between the series of projects designed to build family welfare
infrastructure and support systems in needy states and a future program of policy based lending.
4.2.1 Strengthening Facilities for Delivery of Family Welfare Services
In light of the outlined risks of irnplementation, including the low capacity of the states, the progress in this
civil works sub-component was commendable and is satisfactory. Assam completed all the targeted
construction, renovation and upgradation of facilities. This included 1,316 service facilities, 54 training
facilities, 163 living quarters for the staff, and 6 Central and Regional Drug Warehouses. Rajasthan
completed all of the planned works including 929 service facilities, 32 district and state level training
facilities, I computer site, 27 Major and Minor Drug Warehouses, and I Drug Testing laboratory. In
Karnataka, 1,120 of the planned 1,127 service facilities and training centers were completed, and 1,760
service facilities were renovated and upgraded in place of the planned 1,652. In addition, 2,500 Family
Welfare facilities constructed through the First and Third IDA supported Population Projects, were
upgraded in Karnataka with state funds, in compliance with the project covenant. All the works, as per the
revised plans of the project, have been completed and have been handed over to the district health
authorities for use. All the new facilities and a large number of existing ones were fully equipped and
furnished, and provided with essential supplies ranging from daily consumables to essential instruments. In
Rajasthan, however, procurement remained incomplete mainly due to delays in decision making of the State
Empowered Commnittee. As a result, the necessary furniture and equipment and equipment for the State
Institute for Health and Family Welfare in Jaipur and the Health and Family Welfare Training Center in
Jodhpur could not be procured. 88% of the facilities are being fully utilized, and the remainder are being
utilized partially. Based on an independent survey, the quality of works in Assam has been rated as good,
and in Karnataka and Rajasthan, as satisfactory.
As a whole, the progress in this sub-component for awareness generation was marginally satisfactory. The
MTR in late 1998, showed that the states had made very little progress with this sub-component. In all
three states, the bulk of the effort and project investments concentrated on the hardware components. This
emphasis prevented due attention on the software components, and so the breadth of community based
mobilization envisaged by this project was not fully achieved. Assam and Rajasthan had implemented
mobile clinic and health camp approaches in limited areas, through the use of boats and vans, but had not
monitored the activity or assessed its output. Karnataka had not implemented this sub component.
Therefore, it was agreed that all three states would invest special attention to enhance this strategy during
the remaining project time. This would be done by improving outreach and community linkage activities in
the designated intensive action districts, establish monitoring systems and reporting regularly on progress.
The achievement discussed below is for the period between the latter part of 1998 and the end of the project
in December 2001.
Moped and bicycle loan schemes to increase mobility of the outreach workers had a poor response in all
states. It was stopped in Karnataka due to failure to establish procedures to receive loan re-payments.
Rajasthan replaced the scheme with an increased travel allowance for ANMs, but utilization of this
allowance was only 35%.
5,026 mobile health camps were conducted in Rajasthan, through the public system as well as through
NGOs, providing services to over 600,000 people. In Karnataka, mobile health camps were conducted by
14 NGOs who had been contracted to provide services for the population in the remote tribal areas and
poor performing districts. This is described in detail in section 4.2.5. In Assam, 4 mobile teams were
created to conduct outreach health activities in two districts where two boats clinics were used to transport
service providers, drugs and equipment for the camps.
- 5-



Several pre-existing community based volunteer schemes were supported and taken to scale, especially in
Rajasthan. These community based schemes involved community members and eligible couples
volunteering as depot holders for contraceptives and basic drugs, and to provide contraceptive information
to the conmmunity. This activity was financed in 25 districts, where 7,754 couples were trained against a
target of 11,065 and 7,396 of them functioned in the field. Due to the prevailing law and order situation in
Assam, the activities under this sub-component were delayed until 1998, and the achievements were
limited. Of the planned training for 75,000 Women Health Promoters to disseminate health education
information to the community, 44,967 (60%) were ultimately appointed and trained. The End line Surveys
revealed that the actual number of those who worked as volunteers was much lower. During the course of
the project, Karnataka decided that it would not pursue the planned activity of utilizing the Village Health
Guides as the link volunteers in the commrunity. This was due to the fact that the state had made this
activity redundant based on its assessment of the scheme. Instead, the state decided to train the available
Anganwadi Workers (AWW), and support them to function as link workers, supplementing the work of the
Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs). 25,000 Anganwadi Workers were trained and appointed as link
workers for Family Welfare activities in the project districts.
4.2.2 Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services
The objective for the training activity was to create 48 training facilities, and train service providers,
community based providers and members. The achievement was satisfactory; the project was successful in
developing a network of training infrastructure, with a total of 46 newly built or renovated institutions.
This component resulted in the construction of a new State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
(SIHFW) and an Apex training institution in Rajasthan, and the extension and renovation of the SIBFWs in
the other two states. It also led to the construction and upgrading of a network of Health and Family
Welfare Training Centers, District Training Centers (DTCs) and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife Training
Centers (ANMTCs) in each state to facilitate in-service training to the para-medical staff for ensuring the
up-to-date knowledge and skills required for better and effective service dispensation. This ensured
decentralization of training to the districts.
As mentioned earlier in section 3.4, during the MTR, it had been decided that the training under this project
would be integrated with that of the on-going RCH project. The awareness generation training would be
shifted to the RCH project and the clinical skills development training would be revised in line with the
guidelines of the RCH project. The original training target for the project was to complete training of
1,142,649 medical and paramedical staff, and community members. The total training load of this project
was revised to 229,000, and a total of 183,000 medical and paramedical staff from the sub-centres and
PHCs as well as community members in the three states were trained through this project. Therefore,
about 80% of the revised training targets were achieved. The project's performance in training is rated as
satisfactory.
The End Line surveys in the three states show that the training material utilized by the states was focussed
on the needs of the trainees, and the courses were structured appropriately in terms of the aim of the
training sub- component and category of health personnel. Through the project, the training curriculum has
been upgraded for various categories, with increased emphasis on participatory learning methods.
Linkages have been made with clinical training sites to establish clinical skills training. More than 80% of
the health personnel working in PHCs and Sub-Centers have received training during the project period,
which seems to have improved their general ability to provide services. Another achievement of this
component was the large number of community members who were trained and oriented for family welfare
and public health. This assisted in implementing the innovative schemes with community participation.
- 6 -



The appointment of critical academic teaching staff in the training institutions in all three states remained
unsatisfactory during the project. Procurement of equipment was also problematic and slow, as capacity
for managing procurement was weak both in Rajasthan and Kamataka. The SIHFW in Rajasthan has been
completed after a long delay due to indecision of the Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare,
on the need for this facility. This indecision also hampered the pace of procurement. As a result, the
SIHFW and some of the district training facilities had not been fully furnished by the close of the project,
and were not utilized to full capacity.
During project preparation there was a felt need to examine the whole issue of drug availability, logistics,
quality and supply, as well as the development of infrastructure. The construction and rehabilitation, as
well as the equipping of the drug warehouses were successfully completed in Rajasthan and Assam.
However, the warehouses were not utilized to their full capacity due to staff shortages and incomplete
implementation of the logistics management system. The logistics support, including software, computer
hardware and training, is being provided by the MOHFW with assistance from the IDA supported India
Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project. It is anticipated that when the system is in place, an enhanced level
of functioning of the drug warehouses will be achieved. The issue of drug availability and supply is being
addressed by the Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) project. An essential drugs list has also been
established by each state.
4.2.3 Strengthening Demand Generation Activities
From the outset, it was acknowledged that there were implementation risks, given the weak capacity of the
states to plan and provide guidance for district specific IEC activities. At the MTR, the IEC survey
revealed that IEC efforts had been ad-hoc, and the first year action plans developed for each state based on
the beneficiary needs assessments and a corresponding communications needs assessment during project
preparation did not appear to have been utilized to support the development of the targeted IEC efforts
envisaged in the project. There had been no inputs from either Assam or Karnataka, and the capacity of
the Rajasthan IEC bureau was weak. After the MTR, the focus on this component increased and targeted
state focused IEC activities were started. Therefore, on the whole, this component is rated as
unsatisfactory. In light of the experience gained from this project, it is important to note that equal
emphasis must be given to the supervision of both hardware and software project activities.
Given the project management structure in the three states, it was difficult to strengthen state IEC
institutions. In Assam, the IEC activities took place through the [EC cell in the autonomous project
implementation agency, which had very tenuous links with the State Family Welfare IEC Bureau. As a
result, it was not possible to impact the capacity of the State Bureau or to mainstream IEC activities. Even
in Rajasthan and Karnataka, where the project worked with the State IEC Directorate, it was difficult to
change the traditional approach of providing information into the more modem approach of communicating
to achieve behavior change.
Even though it is difficult to gauge the precise impact of the investments done under this component, it is
possible to enumerate several achievements in the specific state focused IEC activities. A variety of IEC
materials were developed and a range of IEC activities, such as awareness generation through high profile
public events and competitions, and use of the print and electronic media, took place. The awareness
generation training of service providers and community volunteers was carried out and, as indicated earlier,
this was later subsumed under the RCH project from 1999. Karnataka was successful in contracting out
IEC activities in two underserved districts to NGOs, and in several other districts to a private sector
communication firm in Bangalore. These organizations used video vans and street plays to increase
awareness of health issues. In both cases, IEC activities were conceptualized and delivered in a very
effective manner. This will continue to be supported through the Bank funded RCH project. The
- 7 -



newsletter of the Kamataka Family Welfare Department has been restarted with support from this project,
and the Family Welfare Department printing press strengthened. District level NGO engagement in the
project for awareness generation was significant, and is detailed in sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.5. In Rajasthan,
the IEC activities continued to be conducted solely through the IEC Bureau of the Family Welfare
Directorate, with less community participation and NGO involvement than initially envisioned. The IEC
activities have been of a more traditional nature and included radio and television spots and the distribution
of print material such as posters and leaflets. In Assam, due to the law and order situation, the original
emphasis on commnunity-level activities with community involvement did not transpire as planned. In the
later part of the project, the awareness generation activities took place in seven districts with the assistance
of 10 NGOs.
4.2.4 Strengthening Family Welfare Program Management
This component has been marginally satisfactory. Achievements include the construction and equipping of
a new office building for the Family Welfare Department in Assam, as well as varying levels of fulfilLnent
of the state based plans for upgrading computer facilities, installation and maintenance of systems and
training of staff in line with the state based plans. Assamn has also set up a computer unit within the Project
Office for activity planning and reporting of project progress. Karnataka upgraded the computer center of
the Family Welfare Department with an additional supply of computers coupled with a new Community
Needs Assessment (CNA) software platform. They also employed a senior management consultant for
support and trouble shooting and implemented a Management Information Systems (MIS) for work
planning for the comrnunity needs assessment (CNA) under the RCH program. In Rajasthan, district based
computer systems were installed and 41% of the planned staff are in position. The remaining staff will be
supported by the RCH project and other on-going assistance to the national RCH program. Though
planned, the integration of the information systems and the collection and use of data for program planning
purposes has not been done through the project. It has been planned that the states will complete
implementation of the HMIS through the IDA supported RCH project.
With respect to the project plan to strengthen the Area Projects Division of the MOHFW, the project
upgraded the division's computer departrnent. This upgrading will likely benefit project reporting and
financial management of all projects managed by the Area Projects. The strengthening of the Area Project
Division's capacity through the addition of 5 posts was not fully realized. Given that the resulting
strengthening of the Division, especially in the area of project monitoring, would have positively affected
this as, it would be important to examine and address the systemic issues that inhibited this achievement.
4.2.5 Innovative Schemes and Preparation of Future Investments
During project preparation this component was left quite loosely defined so that states would have the
flexibility to develop activities feasible within their respective contexts and capacity. Innovations have also
been extended to the other components described under 4.2.1 and 4.2.3. Given the limited institutional
capacity of the states to implement such schemes, this component has been satisfactory.
Karnataka was able to implement several innovative schemes through partnership with the private sector-
contracting of NGOs in order to provide access to services in the remote and tribal areas of the state. It also
contracted a private communication firm to implement the IEC strategy in the poor perforrning districts.
Two NGOs were contracted to provide family welfare services through 2 PHCs and 10 sub-centres in tribal
areas thereby increasing access to family welfare services in remote and underserved areas to a population
of approximately 50,000. 37 tribal girls were also trained as ANMs and certified to work in the tribal
areas. The contracting of PHCs to NGOs in the tribal areas of Karnataka has been very successfil. This
has been extended by the Government of Karnataka for an additional 10 years and expanded to other poor
performing districts.
-8 -



Rajasthan used community members as depot holders for contraceptives as well as to provide information
on basic health care. 426,401 eligible couples received services from them in 25 districts. In addition, 14
NGOs were funded to provide information to community members on contraception, spacing and
pregnancy related care. 376 mobile health camps were conducted in the desert districts for delivery of
family welfare services. Assain contracted 10 NGOs already working in 7 hilly and tribal districts to
create greater awareness of contraception, ante natal care, institutional deliveries, and full immunization
coverage. The other component which involved the extension of support of Family Welfare services to the
North Eastern states was not done through this project. It is now being supported through the Bank
assisted RCH project. The expenditure in this component was only 30% of the amount originally budgeted,
indicating that the role of NGOs in this project has not been fully utilized. The role of NGOs in project
implementation could have been enhanced with more focus on this from the implementing agencies.
4.2.6 Emergency Earthquake Assistance for Reconstruction in Gujarat
This component has been satisfactory. Following the earthquake in Gujarat in 2001, funds were made
available to the Gujarat Emergency Programn by internal reallocation of the proceeds of the Loans/Credits
under twelve projects, one of which was this project. For this purpose, a new project objective and a new
part Z for Gujarat earthquake reconstruction and rehabilitation was added to the project description
schedule of the legal agreements for this project. To reflect these reallocation, new categories 97-100 for
part Z were inserted in the disbursement schedules of the legal agreements for the existing projects in which
the reallocation were made. SDR 7.802 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) was reallocated from this
project to the Gujaat Emergency component. SDR 7.51 million (US$9.53 million equivaient) have been
disbursed only under Category 97 (Civil Works) for the Housing Component No disbursement have been
made against any other category. The funds were spent on reconstruction of fully collapsed houses and
repair of partially damaged houses in earthquake affected area.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's contribution to the development of institutional infrastructure through expansion of physical
infrastructure in all three states, human resources capacity development, increased access to care especially
in low performing and difficult to access districts; are detailed in earlier sections.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. r Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The law and order situation in Assam, which was identified as a potential project risk delayed the
implementation of the community based activities. Overall however, Assam managed its risks so well it
was able to surpass the other states in terms of implementation results.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were two main factors that affected implementation at the GOI level; the limited capacity of the Area
Projects division of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to provide adequate supervision and the
disconnect between the commitment to the project by the GOI and the respective states. The Area Projects
division was effective in its ability to provide oversight on financial matters; it was not however, able to
provide the project states with critical on-site monitoring and the technical supervision necessary to identify
-9-



and address implementation issues, due to lack of adequate manpower. The provision made under this
component to hire five consultants to strengthen the division, was not utilized. In addition, although there
was a firn conunitment from the GOI to IDA for the project, the same level of commnitment was not evident
at the state level, especially in Rajasthan and Karnataka. This point is addressed further below.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
This project was part of a large centrally sponsored national Family Welfare Program. As such, states
received 90 percent of the funds as grants-in-aid from GOI and contributed 10 percent themselves. The
project interventions were designed by MOHFW after detailed consultation with states and the World
Bank, and implemented by the states. This approach was beneficial from an equity viewpoint since it
provided relatively protected funds for critical interventions for the poor, which would otherwise probably
not be received by the states. The states were to ensure that these funds were protected and utilized at the
appropriate time, solely for the purposes of the project. Karnataka and Assam ensured this, however,
Rajasthan failed to adhere to this thus the funds flow problem persisted until the last 2 years of the project.
Due to a critical ways and means situation in the state, project monies were not always immediately
available for activities supported by the project. This also contributed to a delay in implementation of
activities.
In Rajasthan and Karnataka, the lack of commitment resulted in weak management and slow
implementation of project activities. This was evidenced by a high turnover in project directors and key
project management unit staff (there were eleven project directors in Rajasthan and nine in Karnataka over
the life of the project) and, inadequate delegation of financial and administrative powers to the project
directors. Rajasthan was especially plagued by delays in decision making by the State Empowered
Committee, particularly in relation to procurement and civil works. This was complicated by a decision to
repeat the facility survey for assessing the need for civil works, goods and equipment. This resulted in the
state having to forgo the procurement of a significant number of items of furniture and equipment, and
unnecessary delay in completion of the construction of the State Institute of Health and Family Welfare
(SIHFW).
In Assam, this project represented the only donor inputs in the health sector, and as such the state had a
commitment to make it work. In order to ensure that the project was implemented without obstruction and
delays, the Government of Assam created a separate autonomous society as the project implementing
agency, guided by the state level Empowered Committee. The autonomy given to the society and the
stability of the project leadership (one project director for the full project period) was instrumental in
ensuring that all project activities were implemented in time.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the seven-year project at appraisal was estimated at US$103.8 million (Rs. 4,409.8
million equivalent). Of that, US$88.6 million (SDR 62.7 million equivalent) was to be financed by an IDA
Credit and US$15.2 million by the GOI. At the project closing, the GOI estimated that the total project
expenditure was Rs.3,841.76 million. This was 87% of the original project cost estimates in rupee terms.
The total project expenditure was financed by a Government contribution of US$18.91 million (exceeding
the above committed amount), and an IDA credit of US$81.6 million including the Gujarat Emergency
Earthquake Assistance. Due to steady devaluation of the Rupee against the US Dollars and the US Dollar
appreciation against SDR (the SDR 62.7 million is currently equal to US$ 83.0 million equivalent), there
remains a undisbursed amount of US$1.4 million (SDR 1. I million equivalent), of the IDA Credit at the
end of project period. Details are given in Annex 2.
- 10 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project interventions in all states is likely. The issue of sustainability in the context
of the evolving demands of the family welfare program in India, needs to be approached with realism and
as a process which goes much beyond the limited horizon of this project. This also needs special attention
in the context of the relative isolation of project efforts from mainstream activities in family welfare during
implementation. Nevertheless, significant strides have been made toward setting up a large network of
infrastructure and staff development for enhanced training and service delivery. The challenge for
sustainability will however be in ensuring that the service facilities created under the project are fully
utilized and maintained; quality and coverage of the training is ensured; and the trained manpower continue
to be appropriately utilized in the Family Welfare Program in the three states by making adequate
provisions for salaries in the budget and supervision to ensure and enhance quality of their performance.
All the states have assured considerable additional support to bring the investments made under the project
to full fruition. The states have already initiated steps in this direction by making adequate provision in the
state budget, and by coordinating with the other program been funded by the state/GOI, such as the RCH
project.
The project has also been successful in making the states seek out alternatives to ensure access to services
in remote and tribal areas, through partnership with the private sector. The achievements through these
strategies have differed in the three states, with Kamataka now going on to develop policies with their
experience, while Rajasthan and Assam have recognized these as options which need to be tested and
replicated for greater access. In addition sustainability of the efforts will also be affected by the on-going
Reproductive and Child Health Project, covering all the states, as this will continue and expand the
activities of this project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All three states have developed a plan for the sustainability of the software activities initiated under the
project Starting with a strategy for the hand-over of the project activities to the State Family Welfare
Directorate, this plan includes continuation of all training, IEC and innovations in service delivery in the
states under the RCH program. The states have also initiated steps to make adequate provisions in the
state budget for family welfare for the continuation of staff positions and activities created under the
project.
The prospects for mainstreaming the project initiatives seem to be the best in Kamataka where several
steps have already been taken by the state Government. For example, Karnataka has discussed and
initiated steps to make sustainable 19 DTCs and the SIHFW by creating a regular higher position of
Director, SIHFW and making a provision of separate budget head of training for SIHFW and DTCs before
January 2002. Salaries and allowances of staff working in DTCs and SIHFW up to March 2002 was
provided by the Steering Committee resolutions. Budget estimates for payment of salary and allowances,
office expenses and POL, amounting to about Rs. 17 million annually, has been provided under State
Family Welfare plan head as per commitment by the state. Maintenance of facilities created under the
project is also adequately provided for by increasing the non-wage non-plan budget for 2002-2003 through
the Mid-Term fiscal plan.
The Government of Rajasthan and Assam are also in the process of making requisite financial provisions in
the state budget to sustain the efforts made in the project. However, the prospects for accommodating the
salary for the new positions of faculty/staff in the training institutions and the drug warehouses, and the
maintenance of these facilities in Assam and Rajasthan, are less certain as these states have financial
- 1 1 -



constraints. Even though a decision has been taken to hand over all assets of the project to the State Family
Welfare Directorate, and continue all current activities of the project through the same, further support and
attention from the GOI will be necessary to ensure that these project initiatives are mainstreamed in the two
states.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. I Lending:
The overall Bank performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is satisfactory. During
the preparation phase the Bank provided extensive preparation assistance which resulted in the project
fulfilling several criteria for readiness at entry. Although these criteria are now standard practice they were
less common at the time. The Bank also ensured that the project was targeted to the poorest and most
underserved areas for extension and upgrading of the Family Welfare Program infrastructure, and that the
project supported the GOI's Action Plan for revamping the Family Welfare Program.
The project fulfilled the criteria with Operational Directive 4.20 at entry. The project covered states whose
populations are 4-16 percent tribal (plus 2 percent nomadic in Rajasthan). Based on a beneficiary needs
assessments, the project focused on: special tribal/nomad service strategies, service delivery to the
underserved and poor women and children through mobile services, improving transport for providers,
experiments with smaller coverage norms, and relaxation of staffing norms.
There was a clear awareness of the project risks by the preparation team. These risks were identified as (a)
the possibility of poor implementation in all three states; (b) the potential that project-created infrastructure
and programs will not be maintained; (c) that many of the proposed approaches and programs were new
and untested, particularly the outreach and community linkage schemes; and (d) the unpredictable security
situation in Assam may make various schemes difficult to implement.
7.2 Stupervision:
Overall, the Bank's performance in supervision is rated as unsatisfactory. Frequent changes in task
management (seven task managers over the life of the project) and inadequately equipped task teams that
were unable to provide appropriate support and advice to the client negatively affected project
implementation and supervision. In 1997, a Quality of Supervision assessment of this project deemed the
overall quality of supervision as marginal. The report found that project supervision did not adequately
address the developmental impact of the project. It identified issues such as lack of attention in providing
the client appropriate advice and solutions on project related matters and inadequate level of
appropriateness and speed of follow-up limited the impact and effectiveness of the Bank's actions.
Following the QAG review and the Mid-Term Review, Bank supervision improved substantially with the
formation of a more cluster based approach in project supervision and the addition of adequate technical
expertise in the team. The Bank team recognized the need to be more supportive of the client's need and
also hold the client more accountable for factors affecting implementation. Supervision was done in a
systematic and holistic manner simultaneously with other Bank supported projects in the three states, i.e.
the Population and State Health Systems Development projects, to better coordinate project inputs and
provide the state health/family welfare authorities an opportunity to look at the outcomes in a holistic
manner. This integration of efforts also allowed the team to be pro-active and have an opportunity for a
stronger and effective dialogue with the states, challenging them to move away from infrastructure
orientation in order to achieve the development objectives. An example of this was the downgrading of the
project from satisfactory to unsatisfactory in 1999. This down grading of project status had the salutary
effect of making the state implementing agencies become more committed and focussed in completing
- 12 -



project implementation. The project status was later upgraded to satisfactory in 2000 when key
benchmarks affecting project implementation were met. The work of the team was appreciated by the
MOHFW, who also used it as an opportunity to hold the states accountable for their performance.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was satisfactory with respect to project preparation. The performance of the
three states was satisfactory during preparation although the tasks appeared to have overwhelmed them at
times notably in Kamataka and Rajasthan. Experience of implementation has shown that the initial plans
and cost estimates underestimated the difficulties of construction in the project areas. Project scope in
terms of overall size and number of components was ambitious. As a result, the start-up phase took longer
than expected due to problems in setting up the management structure including the high-level state
Empowered Committee. Additionally, it took considerable time for project staff to familiarize themselves
with Bank procedures such as the procurement guidelines and the financial reporting requirements and the
auditing authority.
7.5 Government inmplementation performance:
The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory, however with varying levels of perfornance
between the states, and between the center and the respective states. The level of willingness to implement
this project varied between the MOHFW, which had a high level of commitment, and the states
(specifically Karnataka and Rajasthan), which showed lower levels of commitment. The level of dedication
by the MOHFW resulted in good supervision of the financial matters. The provision of oversight and
on-site monitoring of the states, however, remained inadequate. Had the MOHFW been more pro-active in
this area, a lot of the implementation problems at the state level could have been avoided or addressed
earlier. There was a provision made within the project to strengthen the Area Projects Division for
improved on site supervision. The MOHFW did not utilize this provision.
At the state level, the lack of political commitment led to the persistence of many issues including the high
staff turnover, weak procurement capacity, fund flow problems, inadequate delegation of financial and
administrative powers to project directors. In addition in Rajasthan, delays of the State Empowered
Committee to make key decisions affected project implementation specially in regards to procurement and
civil works. The audits reports were generally received after the due date (December 31) and had major
disallowances in case of Rajasthan basically on account of advances having been claimed from IDA.
Although this systemic weakness prevailed throughout, Rajasthan, at the end of the credit period, Rajasthan
was able to get the disallowed amounts recertified from the auditor to a major extent and reclaim them back
from IDA. Similarly Kamataka was also able to get the audit disallowances recertified and claim them
back from IDA. Due to non-receipt of audit report, SOEs were discontinued for Rajasthan and Assamn for
the years 1997 and 1999.
The covenants have all been met, with some delays especially in Karnataka, where the covenant relating to
maintenance of civil works built under the Population One and Three projects were not complied with until
after the MTR.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
It was satisfactory in Assam and Karnataka, and marginally satisfactory in Rajasthan. Given the special
nature of the project management structure in Assam, namely that the project management was undertaken
- 13 -



by an autonomous body that operated independently from the Family Welfare Directorate and also enjoyed
significant financial independence, many of the implementation issues were circumvented. However, long
term sustainability remains pertinent in Assam (articulated in section 5 and 6 of this report). In Rajasthan
and Karnataka, where the project management unit was an integral part of the Family Welfare Directorate,
the lack of ownership and limited project management capacity led to slow project implementation in the
early years. Karnataka over came this problem by upgrading the position of Project Director after the
MTR to that of full time IAS officer with the rank and status of Special Secretary, Department of Health
and Family Welfare. Thus, the project implementation unit was mainstreamed and this significantly
enhanced the financial and management authority of the Project Director. This also assisted in focusing the
attention of the state machinery in completing project activities. The main issues in Rajasthan, included
poor delegation of authority to the project implementation staff, failure to appoint critical and appropriate
staff to the project management, inappropriate fund flow mechanism and weak procurement capacity
compounded by the perennial delays in the decision-making processes of the State Empowered Committee.
This situation in Rajasthan improved to some extent during the latter part of the project life.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Some of the key lessons learnt from project implementation include:
Management
Political commitment at both the state and GOI level is critical for state ownership, successful
implementation and project sustainability. It is imperative that states play an active role in the design and
monitoring of projects and there is clarity in the roles and responsibilities, between the GOI and the states,
in order to foster ownership and accountability of outcomes. In addition extemal inputs may not be
sustainable unless the states themselves realize the critical needs for such institutions. Thus a shared vision
binding functionaries together for unified and dedicated implementation can also lead to a sense of
ownership
Continuity of the core project team, as well as the Project Director and critical staff in all key positions
such as those working on IEC and training, is pivotal for the successful implementation of time bound
projects. Adherence to this has been key in ensuring the timely completion of all project activities in
Assam, and conversely, has led to hampered progress in Karnataka and Rajasthan. An examnple of this
lack of continuity includes the fact that there were eleven project directors in Rajasthan and nine in
Karnataka over the seven and a half year life of the project. There needs to be an agreement to this effect
with the Borrower and the implementing agency in order to limit disruptions and delays in project
implementation.
Management structures and implementation arrangements for the project need to be relevant to the state
context and environment With a unstable law and order situation and security in Assam, the
implementation of the project activities without an autonomous project implementation agency, would have
been difficult. This was not necessary in Karnataka and Rajasthan, where an Empowered Committee
headed by the Minister, Health and Family Welfare or Secretary, Medical, Health and Family Welfare,
provided guidance on project implementation.
Ensuring adequate funds flow is critical for smooth implementation of the project. Therefore routing of
- 14 -



funds through a mechanism separate from the state treasury, was vital in Rajasthan to ensure that project
funds were readily made available for project activities. This however, did not become an issue in
Karnataka where project fimds were also channeled through the treasury.
Presence of program staff from the Family Welfare Departments in the project Empowered Committees did
not bring about closer alignment of the project with the Family Welfare Directorate. A conscious effort to
forge coUlaboration and build linkages and relationships with the parent body/department, as has been done
in Karnataka, is critical. This requires an understanding of the role of the project in the overal context of
health and development and ensuring having a shared vision and common understanding of the project goal
and objective among all stake holders.
While decentralization is desirable for timely and effective implementation, there are certain activities, such
as civil works and procurement, requiring a high level of accountability and follow-up, and effective
monitoring systems, are better done through a centralized unit and system.
Training
The large work force in the health sector justifies the need to have in-house training capacity and facilities.
The training institutions should explore options to contract external experts to broaden the skill base of the
trainers. They should also explore opportunities to market their services outside the Family Welfare sector:
This will help to improve training quality and generate revenue.
AU the training in the health sector should be part of a human resource development strategy. This strategy
should incorporate all training; training that occurs within projects such as this, as well as the standard
training offered by the Family Welfare Directorate. Additionally, an ongoing evaluation of training
outcomes including the appropriate placement of personnel and their performance, follow up training and
supervision of on-the-job training, should be conducted in order to gauge the effectiveness of the training
component.
Public Private Roles and Partnership
Strategic choices regarding the roles of the public and private sectors, need to be made based on the core
strengths of the sectors, institutional needs and the current capacity of the sector. The participating states
have learnt that the training of large numbers of para-medical staff requires in-house capacity and
resources, while the implementation and management of a behavior change strategy may best be done by a
private sector firm. Similarly, the utilization of the PVO/NGO sector may not be the answer for all
proposed interventions because they may not have the expertise to deliver the types of services required by
the target population or the capacity to monitor and ensure results. This sort of analysis needs to inform
the choices ultimately made.
There have been in the project several opportunities for public private partnerships; (i) in planning and
implementing behavior change communication strategies. This has been demonstrated in Karnataka, where
a private sector communication firm has successfully implemented the behavior change strategy; and (ii)
increasing access to health service to the marginalized and tribal population, through innovations. These
have been explained earlier in Section 6.
Community Involvement
Involvement of the community in project implementation has been limited, even though it could have had a
- 15 -



greater impact for the project. One experience has been that involving the local conmnunity in sighting of
health facilities is crucial in ensuring access. This approach has helped Assam ensure that the facilities are
central and accessible for the community. To achieve this both the Bank and the Borrower needed to reach
a common understanding on community participation, ways to achieve this, as well as developing the
capacity for guiding this.
Project Design
It is imperative that the role of supervision by both the Bank and the GOI be heightened in order to yield
better project outcomes. From the side of the GOI, regular monitoring and oversight of the project
components, especially some of the software components, is crucial in order to provide support during
implementation. From the Bank, a greater level of engagement with the client and pro-activity, along the
lines of what occurred in the later stages of project implementation is necessary to ensure that impediments
are removed in time and all planned activities are completed.
The capacity for effective management of the procurement and financial aspects is critical in ensuring that
all project activities are completed in time. In this project too the lack of these aspects in the participating
states resulted in implementation delays. Project preparation needs to give adequate attention to ensuring
that the project implementing units are fully conversant with and are fully equipped with necessary
expertise in procurement and financial management. In particular, the finance and procurement functions
for this project should have been paid adequate attention and professionals with skills in budgeting,
accounting, financial management and reporting as well procurement management should have been
deployed in the states from the early stages.
In Assam and Karnataka, the irnplementation of civil works component progressed relatively smoothly,
while in Rajasthan however, there were several issues. The construction of the sub-centres had been
contracted to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). This led to delays throughout the construction process
of civil works. The contract was given to a body that was not held accountable for its performance, and the
PRIs are part of a department different from the Family Welfare. Therefore there was no urgency to
ensure timely completion. The PRIs were also responsible for site selection. In some cases selection of
sites took a very long time and led to delays in the commencement of civil works, while in others the site
selection was poor resulting in the construction of sub-centres away from the village.
Coordination between project financed activities and non project Family Welfare activities was difficult to
establish. In each state, project implementation was the responsibility of a unit that was separate from the
state's Family Welfare Directorate. Although the project was expected to strengthen the Family Welfare
program activities, there was poor coordination and as a result there were many difficulties in
mainstreaming and coordinating activities. This again brings out the need to have a shared vision between
all stake holders to ensure that the project can achieve the stated outcomes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR is listed in the Annex 8. Below is a letter from the Project
Director, commenting on the draft ICR dated April 30, 2002.
D.O.No.L.19013/17/2001-APS (Vol.I)
June 14, 2002.
- 16 -



Dear Dr.
Kindly refer to your letter dated May 1, 2002 forwarding therewith the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) of the World Bank assisted Ninth India Population Project for comments of this Ministry.
While ICR is quite comprehensive, the following observations/points may be noted:-
i.     Para 3.1 states that the 3 States Assam, Karnataka and Rajasthan were not previously covered
under other India Population Projects does not seem to be correct as Karnataka was covered under IPP-I
and IPP-III also.
ii.    The World Bank has rated both the achievement of objectives and outputs as satisfactory and to
support this the latest data has been referred to. (para 4.1) We suggest that the latest data as revealed by
the State-wise end-line survey reports may be utilized so as to make it more accurate
iii.   Para 4.2.1 regarding extension and upgradation of Family Welfare infrastructure of the State refers
that about 2% buildings are under construction in Rajasthan. We suggest that the final data as revealed by
the States ICR reports may be taken into account for working out percentages of the buildings completed
and handed over.
iv.    Para 5.4 dealing with cost and financing, refers the cost at appraisal at Rs.440.98 crores and the
likely expenditure at Rs.390.84 crores. In this connection, it is pointed out that the original cost of the
project was Rs.335 crores, which was, enhanced to Rs.414.06 crores in May, 2000 and Rs.422.59 crores
in January, 2001 and the expenditure reported upto April, 2002 is Rs.377.45 crores. Therefore, figures in
para 5.4 may be replaced with these figures and percentage may be calculated accordingly.
v.     The World Bank report contains the Project Implementation Assessment, which is the draft
Implementation Completion Report furmished by GOI in December (pages 17-27 of the report). There has
been a lot of changes during the last 4 months and with the results of end-line survey already published and
submission of the ICR by the State Government, we suggest that the final ICR report of the GOI should
form a part of the ICR report of the World Bank. The final ICR report is under preparation.
vi.   In para 7.0 relating to assessment of outcome and in annexure 1 concerning key performance
indicator, we suggest that the Word Bank may use the latest estimates of various indicators as revealed by
end-line survey reports instead of taking the latest/1999 esfimates. Similarly, annexure-2 concerning project
cost and financing may be prepared by taking the latest final expenditure figures so that the percentage of
appraisal column in page 34 of the report may be more realistic.
vii.   The ICR has correctly identified non-fulfillment of the software components. It will also be useful
to compare the achievements in the hardware sector with the less focused software sector as the project
design does talk about the objective to strengthen and improve the functioning of the Family Welfare
Programs of Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka and to lower the levels of fertility and maternal and
childhood mortality in the three states.
viii.  It is a fact that considerable hardware inputs have been put in place in the area of Training starting
with ambitiously built and well equipped SIIHFWs. The moot question is the State's ownership of the same.
The case of Rajasthan and Assam are cited as evidence where for most of the time regular faculty was not
in place. Another issue is convergence with the overall RCH training. One lesson leamt is that external
inputs may not be sustainable unless the states themselves realise the critical need for such institutions.
- 17 -



ix.    There is a reference to interruptions in the training program of awareness generation program. The
critical issue is one of designing training inputs for effecting behavioral change. From the ELS findings, it
is clear that involvement of community, barring site selections has been limited. Another question is
whether these interventions led to actual behavioral change. The contentions of the concluding sentence of
this section namely that equal emphasis be given to supervision of both software and hardware activities of
this project is relevant.
x.     One crucial issue is the preparedness of the project in the context of the implementing state. In the
Rajasthan case, it has been admitted that as the knowledge of the state level functionaries on Bank
procedures is often insufficient, the project must provide some preparatory time before launching the
project and provide mechanisms that ensure that the project be implemented fully rather than partially.
There is also a reference that the project design right formn the outset should incorporate mechanisms to
develop common understanding of the project objectives, approaches, systems and procedures. This should
also take care of induction of leadership changes with the concept and components of the project.
xi.    One lesson leamt that has come up from the ELS Rajasthan is that all future Area Projects should
include an in built component of sustainability both in terms of infrastructure as well as staff salaries under
the project. As a first step towards sustainability, the program needs to be accepted by the states and the
sustainability dialogue should start halfway through the project.
xii.   The ICR has recomrnended the progress of civil works as commendable; this could be better
substantiated with data on utilization of the assets created.
xiii.  The ICR may consider incorporating the need to have a Shared Vision which binds functionaries
together for unified and dedicated implementation and also leads to a sense of ownership of effects created
by the project.
xiv.   A finding of the ICR has been that modest interest has been shown by the community workers
when deployed in an unpaid voluntary position. This finding may be substantiated by other country/project
experiences or otherwise so as to enable pragmatic lesson learning from the project.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(A.K. MEHRA)
(1) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduce Crude Birth Rate (CBR )(per 1000) Assam: 21                        Assam:
1994: 27.5
1999: 21.8 (NFHS)
1999: 25.8 (RCH-all districts)
2001: 27.19 (Endline Survey)
Kamataka: 20                         Kanataka:
1994: 20.4
1999:20.4 (NFHS)
1999: 22.6 (RCH-all districts)
2001: 20.6 (Endline Survey)
Rajasthan: 21
Rajasfthn:
1994: 33.7
1999: 29.9 (NFHS)
1999: 26.6 (RCH-all districts)
2001: 32.25 (Endline Survey)
Raise Contraeptive Prevalence Rates  Assam: 60                             Assam:
(CPR) % (Total)                                                            1994: 29.3
1999: 43.3 (NFHS)
1999: 27.7 (RCH-all districts)
2001: 44.3 (Endline Survey)
Kamataka: 60                         Kamataka:
1994: 47
1999: 58.3 (NFHS)
1999: 65.6 (RCH-all districts)
Rajasthan: 60                        2001: 60.8 (Endline Survey)
Rajasthan:
1994: 30.7
1999: 40.3 (NFHS)
1999: 43.5 (RCH-ali districts)
2001: 41.1 (Endline Survey)
Reduce Total FerUlity Rate (TFR)     Data not available                    Assam:
1994: 3.5
1999: 2.3 (NFHS)
1999: 3.34 (RCH-aII districts)
2001: 3.05 (Endline Survey)
Kanataka:
1994: 3.1
1999: 2.13 (NFHS)
1999: 2.44 (RCH-all districts)
2001: 2.2 (Endllne Survey)
Rajasthan:
1994: 4.6
1999: 3.78 (NFHS)
1999: 3.47 (RCH-all districts)
2001: 4.7 (EndUrne Survey)
Reduce Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) (per  Assam: 50                         Assam:
1000) live births                                                          1994: 77
1999: 69.5 (NFHS)
2001: 61.61 (EndUine Survey)
Karnataka: 71                         Kamataka:
1994: 71
1999: 55.2 (NFHS)
2001: 40.2 (Endline Survey)
- 19-



Rajasthan: 60
Rajasthan:
1994: 81
1999: 80.4 (NFHS)
2001: 39.0 (Endline Survey) 1/
Reduce Child Mortality Rate (CMR) (Per  Assam: >10                         Assam:
1000)                                                                      1994: 41.2
1999: 21.4 (NFHS)
Karnataka: Data not avaiable         1994 23.3
1999: 19.3 (NFHS)
Rajasthan: Data not available         Rajashthan:
1994: n.a.
1999: 37.6(NFHS)
Reduce Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) (Per Assam: 20                       State and nationa data not found to be
100,000) live birtis                 Kamataka: 20                         reiable.
Rajasthan: 20
Source: National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) 1998-1999.
Reproductive Child Project - Household Survey (RCH) 1999.
1/ Endline Survey data: based on a very small sample and need to be interpreted carefully.
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of fadlMes complted/renovated and  State of Assam:                  All planned fadlities In Assam have been
handed over.                        800 new sub-centers; 50 renovated   completed and have been handed over. The
sub-centers; 100 PHCs upgraded State  regbnal drug warehouses has also been
Dispensaries; 88 ANM quarter at PHCs  completed, but Is yet to be fumished. The
75 Grade IV quarter at PHCs.; 76 FRUs  quality of completed works has been good.
UpgradhIg/Renovations
State of Kamataka:                  In Kamata, an average of 93 percent of
1,133 new sub-centers and PHCs; 2,587  pinned fadilIes have been completed and
renovated sub-oanters/PHC/CHs;      are fully functioning. These indude 932
271 Medical Offlcers quarter at PHCs  sub-centers (new), 1,264 (renovation), 90
72 FRUs Upgrading/Renovations       PHCs (new) 464 (upgraded) and 19
upgraded CHCa, and 250 Medical Officer
Quarters. Based on an independent survey,
the quality of completed works has been
found to be generally satisfactory.
State of Rajasthan:                 In Rajasthan, out of 810 sub-centers
860 sub-centers; 100 labour Room; 30  planned, 808 were completed and 804 have
delivery room;31 Dnrg Ware House;   been handed over to PWD. The water and
10 upgradatlon of PHCt to CHC       electrdty connection for some of works are
stUIl to be completed.
No. of mobile clinics planned       Data not avalable                   In the State of Kamata, 12 NGOs are
currently providing mobile Reproductive and
ChUd (RCH) services. This is more than 4
planned.
In Rajasthan, 318 mobile health camps were
organized by India Red Cross Society.
25,775 persons have accessed the services
provided through these camps.
Success of community based vdunteer  Data not available                 The project had dedded In the early years not
scheme.                                                                 to continue this activities In Assam, due to
the law and order situation prevailing in the
State.
Hcowver, In Karnataka, 25,000 Angawadi
Workers were appointed as link workers, and
miUlon population reached through
conmunity linkages.
In Rajasthan, health camps have been
organized in 25 districts where the RCH
services are not available. These camps
were held on fixed dates and places. Dunng
the project period, 5,026 camps have been
conducted and RCH services and treatment
of RTUSTD have been provided.
No. of trained staff and faculty in posIton  State of Assam:            Assam has signflfcantly expanded trainin,g
9,835 Health Worker FemaUANM; 1,507  and exceeded all planned training target
Health Asstant F/LHV; 2892 General  During the project period a total of 96,739
Nurse; 170 Bbck Extnesion Education; 250  health personnel inCluding MSS, WHP,
training faculty; 4,305 medical officers; 3,000 TBAs and vilage laders have been trained.
pMvt med pracL 590 Sr. Physidcans/ Superv;
30,000 TBAs; and 78,000 Women Health
Promotor.
Kamnataka decided to revise the trining
State of Kamataka:                   miodules based on RCH guideflnes. This
23,580 Health Worker FemiaiANM; 2,958  caused a slowing down of the training
Health Assistant FemnaWLH/V and 13,413  activIides. Hmowver, the training of functional
male; 669 General Nurse; 2,954 Sr. Heath   e             O
Inspector, 1530 Block Extion Education; 
- 21 -



PHCs were achieved on an average of 87
306 training faculty 9,172 medical offiars  percenL The training of community based
3,000 pvt mfed pract. 590 Sr. Physicians/  functionaries has been slow.
Supervisors; 93 000 TBAs; and 370,000
various Health Promotor and school
teachers.                            All district trainrng faciliies in Rajasthan have
trained faculty in position. The critcal faculty
State of Rajashan:                   has to be peced In the SIHFW. However,
21.960 MPW (M/F); 2.130 Sector      the quality of training needs to be assessed.
SupervAsors;2520 SMO/MO; 300 CHMO/Dy
CH-MO; 114 State Officials; 535 Training
Faculty; 90 equip. operators; 453,915 joint
training ANM/TBA/AWW
No. of training faclities upgraded,  State of Assam:                      In Assam, 22 district training centers along
constucted and fully equipped and handed  2 training centers; 17 ANMWGNM training  with four 100 bedded nurses hostels, five 20
over as per training strategy        centers/school building; 4 hostels   bedded nurses' hostels and 16 hostels for
(100-student) and 5 hostels (20-student)  field practice area were constructed as
1 office building                    planned.
State of Kamataka:                  In Kamataka, as per the plans, 27 training
19 training centers                 facilities have been upgraded and fully
1 LHV/ANM school and 1 HFWTCs        equipped.
1 office building
State of Rajasthan:                 In Rajasthan, out of 15 ANM training centers
15 District Training Center (DTC)    have been upgraded as distict training
I New HFWTC                          centers to facilita in service training. Of the
2 updradation of existng HFWTC       14.628 various levels of training. 13.427 have
1 SIHFW                              been completed.
No. of NGOs contracted and % of populabon Data not avaibable              Involvement of NGOs has only begun in the
covered                                                                   past year in Assam. 10 NGOs have been
contracted. The coverage of 7 low
performing and inaccessible districts Is
commrendable.
In Kamataka. 14 NGOs have been
conbacted to provkie RCH services though
innovative mneans to naccessble and tibal
populabtons. NGOs have also been
ontracted to take over 2 PHCs and provide
RCH services through them. In additon.
Unk Workers, and Mobile Medical Units were
also implemented.
In Rajasthan NGOs contracted for carrying
out faclity survey for 138 First Referral Units
(FRUs) for ldentication of their needs.
The FRUs were upgraded based on the
assessment NGOs have also been ivolved
in conducbng RCH camps described above.
It has been estimated than 47,835 population
have been covered and benefited.
No. of IEC actvities planned         Data not available                  IEC acivity has been caried out in Assam.
Evaluaton on effectiveness of IEC actvities
wivl be assessed under the planned end Une
survey. Earty Involvement of the NGOs in
IEC actvities including trianing In all the
disticts produced better impact in RCH
service delivery.
In Kamataka, against 10.986 planned
actvites, 7,115 were conducted. However,
the effectiveness of IEC activities wiN be
evaluated under the panned End Une
survey. A private communication firm has
also been contacted to develop and
implement the IEC plan.
- 22 -



Improved Management Capacity through  Create additonal posts:            The HMIS Is In place as planned In Assam.
upgraded facility, Installed systems, and  Assam - 90                    It has helped in monitoring and evaluation of
provided technical assistance        Kamataka - 163                      the project activities. A similar facility (LMIS)
RaJasthan -228                       Is being Impemented In the Drug
Warehouses/ Logistics component.
In Kamataka, faclity upgrading has been
done according the plan. Computr
instaabtion, MIS training and PMIS software
for cvil works and procurement were also
completed. (-Check the end-line survey for
Evaluation of Implementation of MIS)
Out of 228 planned positons for Raajasthan,
only 93 in posidon (41% achieved).
Computer system strengthened In the family
welfare department at state and distict level.
% of tribal and special population being  Data not avaglable             Most of the districts under the project in
covered and reiving health services.                                     Assam have a trbal and underserved
population. The seven districts with NGO
Involvement In RCH have them providing
services among the tribal populabtion.
% of population reached through the  Data not avaiable                   In contrast, the Kamataka has a small tribal
Innovative Schemes and Investment                                        populabtion which is receivng health services.
Preparation Fund                                                         The services are provided by NGOs which
were contracted by the project There also 8
innovative schemes were imopemented under
the project period. And 14 NGOs
particpated in the investment preparation
fund schemes in which population coverage
was estimated as 716,783.
22 NGOs In Rajasthan have been provided
funds for organirng mobile health camps.
Innovative schemes such as the use of Jan
Mangal couples and Jan Swastha Kasmi as
community based distributors of suppfies and
also as agents of change, were implmented
under the project. There were 30 NGOs
participated in the investment preparation
fund schemes and the population coverage
was very encouraging. In addition, NGOs
have been assodated for carrying out various
research studies. Most of mobile health
camps Were conducted in the under served
area to provide RCH services. These have
been Implemented In 1,337 villages. Rt has
benefitd at least 27,000 persons.
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Strengthen F. W. Service Delivery                     50.10          47.83              95
Improve Quality of F. W. Services                     22.00           21.23             96
Increasing Demand for F. W. Services                  10.30            9.44             92
Management Improvement                                 8.80            8.78             99
Innovative Schemes                                     4.10            3.70             90
Emergency Earthquake Assistance for                                    9.53
Reconstruction in Gujarat 1/
Physical Contigencies                                  7.70
Price Contigencies                                     0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                  103.80          100.51
Total Project Costs             103.80          100.51
Total Financing Required              103.80          100.51     =
1/ A new component, Emergency Earthquake Assistance for Reconstruction in Gujarat was added
following the earth quake in Gujarat in 2001. DCA was susquently amended to include the Gujarat
component as the part Z of the project.
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Ap ralsal Estimate) (US$ mllion ulvalent)
CIVIL WORKS                                              36.19       6.60                42.78
(32.57,    (.94,                (38.51)
GOODS
Vehcles                                         3.99                 0.30     -           4.29
(3.19)              (0.24)                (3.43l
Mopeds, Bicycles for Field Staff                                     5.48                 5.48
(4.39)               (4.39)
Furniture                                       -          2.71      0.98                 3.69
(2.17)    (0.79)                (2.96)
Equipment & Health Kits                         -          6.69      2.43     -           9.12
(5.35)    (1-94)                (7.29)
Training Material & Books                       -                    1.67     -           1.67
(1.57)               (1.57)
Consumables                                     -                    1.84     -            1.84
(1.35)               (1.35)
Medicines & Medical Material                    -                    3.04     -           3.04
(2.22)               (2.22)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Preparation & Implementation                                15.67     -           15.67
Support (includes Grants, Innovative Schemes                     (14.92)               (14.92)
Project Preparation & Implementation                                 1.30     -            1.30
Support (Publicity services)                                      (1.04)                (1.04)
Institutional Development (Includes                                  3.04     -           3.04
IEC & training)                                                   (2.35)                (2.35)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff                                         4.56     -           4.56
(3.37)                (3.37)
Honorarium to Community Volunteers                                   2.83     -           2.83
(2.09)               (2.09)
T.AJD.A. of staff                                                              0.27       0.27
Civil Works Operation & Maintenance                                  1.73     -            1.73
(1.24)               (1.24)
Equipment & Fleet Operation & Maintenance                            2.55                 2.55
(1.87)               (1.87)
Total                                           3.99      45.58     54.00      0.27      103.84
(3.19)    (40.09)   (45.31      -        (88.58)
- 25 -



CIVIL WORKS=                                           45.45      7.90   -            53.35
(40.45)    (5.45)             (45.90)
CIVIL WORKS (PART Z) 1/                                           (9.5__              (9.53)
GOODS
Furniture, Equipment & Health Kits,Vehcles    1.67     10.18      2.77     -         14.62
(0.98)    (9.71)    (1.89)              (12.58)
Training Material & Books                                         0.75     -           0.75
(0.69)              (0.69)
Consumables                                                       0.97     -           0.97
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Preparation & Implementation                              5.37     -           5.37
Support (includes Grants, Innovative Schemes                    (0.89)              (0.89)
Institutional Development (Includes                               9.00     -           9.00
IEC & training)                                                 (6.96)              (6.96)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff& TA/DA of staff                      4.83     -           4.83
(4.50)               (4.50)
Honorarium to Community Volunteers                                0.56     -           0.56
(0.55)              (0.55)
Civil Works Operation & Maintenance                               0.96     -           0.96
Equipment & Fleet Operation & Maintenance                         0.57                 0.57
Total                                          1.67     55.63     33.68      -        90.98
_    (0.98)   (50.16)   (20.93)             (81.60)
I / The civil work financed by IDA under the Part Z of the project for the Emergency Earthquake
Assistance for Reconstruction in Gujarat. However, the total amount is not reflected by GOI financial
report for the India Family Welfare (Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka) Project.
- 26 -



Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.     CoF.      IDA       Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Strengthen F. W. Service  46.64    8.59                36.30     11.54              77.8   134.3
Delivery
Improve Quality of F. W.  20.95    2.81                18.37      2.86              87.7   101.8
Services
Increasing Demand for F.  9.05     2.03                6.94       2.50              76.7   123.2
W. Services
Management Improvement   8.08       1.53               7,08       1.69              87.6   110.5
Innovative Schemes       3.86      0.30                3.38       0.32              87.6   106.7
Emergency Earthquake                                   9.53
Assistance for
Reconstruction In
Gujarat 1/
Total                    88.58     15.26               81.60      18.91             92.1   123.9
1/ Emergency Earthquake Assistance for Reconstruction in Gujarat was added following the earth quake
in Gujarat in 2001. DCA was susquently amended to include the Gujarat component as the part Z of the
project.
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
MonthNear     Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identificaffon/Preparaffon/Prea
ppralsal                               2   Mission Leader, Public Health
02/25/92 -                      Specialist
03/11/92
04/11/92 -                  2   Mission Leader, Public Health
04/26/92                        Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/06/93 -                 15   Chief, Population and Health
12/12/93                        Adviser, Mission Leader,
Economist, Public Health
Specialist, Consultant/Project
Preparation, 2
Consultant/Architects,
Consultant/IEC/NGO/Comm
unity Participation,
Consultant/Management,
Consultant/MIS, 2
Procurement and
Disbursement Specialists
Supervision
11/24/94 -                  6   Mission Leader, 2                 S            S
12/21/94                        Architects, 2 Training
Specialists, Pharmaceutical
08/30/95 -                  7   Mission Leader, IEC,              S             S
09/23/95                        Procurement, Training, Health
Specialist, Architect,
Pharmaceutical
04/01/96 -                  6   Mission Leader, Training,         S             S
04/15/96                        Management, Health Specialist,
Architect, Pharmaceutical
11/18/96 -                  3   Mission Leader, Community         S            S
12/06/96                        Partnership, Service Delivery
04/28/97 -                  5   Mission Leader,                   S             S
05/21/97                        Community/Partnership,
Training, Management, Civil
Works
10/13/97 -                  5   Mission Leader, Training,         S            S
11/17/97                        Management, Civil Works, IEC
05/14/98 -                  7   Mission Leader, Public Health     S             S
06/05/98                        Specialist, Training,
Management, Civil Works, IEC,
Community Participation
11/05/98 -                 10   Mission Leader, 3 Program and     S            S
12/15/98                        Project Implementation
- 29 -



Specialists, Decentralized
Planing, Community
Mobilization, Training, IEC, 2
Civil Works
02/12/99                    3   Mission Leader, Economist,        S            S
Public Health Specialist
04/14/99 -                  5   Task Leader, Operations Analyst,  S            S
05/18/99                        3 Consultants
11/08/99 -                  8   Task Leader, Consultant/Public    S            U
11/17/99                        Health Specialist,
Consultant/Architect,
Consultant/Monitoring &
Evaluation, NGOs, Social
Assessment,
Consultant/Management
Specialist, Consultant/Obstetrics
04/26/00 -                  9   Task Leader, 2 Public Health      S            U
05/22/00                        Specialists, Public Health
Analyst, Operations Analyst,
Training, Bio-engineer,
Institutional Management,
Consultant/IEC
09/21/00 -                  6   Task Leader, Public Health        S             S
10/04/00                        Specialist, Consultant/Training,
Consultant/lEC,
Consultant/Architect, Team
Leader
05/10/01 -                  4   Task Leader, Public Health        S             S
05/30/01                        Specialist, Health Specialist,
Financial Management Specialist
09/21/01 -                  5   Task Leader, Consultant/Public    S             S
09/23/01                        Health Specialist,
Consultant/Architect.
Procurement, Financial
Management
ICR
12/10/2001 -               5    Mission Leader, Public            S             S
12/14/2001                      Health Specialist, Financial
Specialist, Procurement,
Operations Officer
- 30 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation/Preap      205.30                     314.70
praisal
Appraisal/Negotiation                 143.47                     221.12
Supervision                           342.00                     687.02
ICR                                    20.00                      65.98
Total                                 710.77                    1,288.82
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
;Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
?Sector Policies                       O H  O SU * M   O N  O NA
Z Physical                             OH *SUOM ON ONA
0 Financial                            OH   OSUOM      ON    ONA
z Institutional Development            0 H  0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                         O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  O SU * M   O N  O NA
M Gender                         O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
F Private sector development           0 H  O SU * M 0 N 0 NA
 Public sector management             0 H  O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
NGO development
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
I Lending                                          OHSOS        OU     OHU
z Supervision                                      OHS OS       * U    O HU
3 Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
I Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
I Government implementation performance            O HS * S     0 U    0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    IDA. India, Staff Appraisal Report, Family Welfare (Assam, Rajajasthan and
Karntaka)Project, May 26, 1994.
2.   IDA. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2630-IN, June 1994.
3.   IDA. Project Agreement, Credit Number 2630-IN, June 1994.
4.    IDA. ICR Mission Report, December 5-12, 2001.
5.   IDA. Mid-Term Review (MTR)/Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, November 5 to
December 15, 1998.
6.   IDA. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires, 1994-2001.
7.    Government of Karnataka, Mid-Term Review by World Bank Mission, November 15 - 18,
1998.
8.    Government of Assam, Mid-Term Review, November 1998.
9.    Govemnunet of Assarn, State Report, IPP-IX and Reproductive and Child Health (RCH),
November 1998.
10.   Econ Design and project Services (P) Ltd., Guwahatai-6. Final Report of Mid-Term Review
(CW), Assam Area Project (IPP-IX)
11.   Government of Karnataka, Health & Family Welfare Dept. Final Implementation
Completion Report (IDA - 2630- IN). The Family Welfare Project (Population-IX)
Karnataka.
12.    Society for Implemetation of Assam Area Project IPP-IX, Hengrabari, Guwahati. Assam
Project Review Status, Project Report, December, 2001.
13.    Health & Family Welfare Dept. Government of Karnataka. Implementation Completion
Report (Draft) (New Delhi 12th - 14th December 2001)
14.    Government of Karnataka, Tribal ANM Report, July 1999 to March 2000. Vivekanananda
Foundation.
15.    Government of Karnataka, Evaluation of ANM Trainingfor Tribal Girls under India
Population Project IXInnovative Scheme. Population Centre, Bangalore, March 1999.
16.    Family Welfare (Assam, Karnataka & Rajasthan) IPP-9 Project, Implementation
Completion Report (IDA Credit No. 2630-IN) June 24, 1994 to December 31, 2002.
Medical, Health & Family Welfare Department (IPP-IX), Jaipur (Rajasthan).
17.   IPP-IX - Mid-Term Review (November 1998) Rajasthan, Family Welfare Project.
18.   IPP-IX - Mid-Term Review (May 14-15, 1999) Jaipur.
19.    Decentralized Planning in Reproductive Health. The Indian Experience of Policy Reform.
Nirmala Murthy, December 2000.
20.    Mid-Term Review of IEC and Training Programme Implemented under Assam Area
Project IPP-IX, Final Report, Population Research Centre, Department of Statistics,
Gauhati University.
21.    Mid-Term Review. India Population Project IX (K). Government of Karnataka. Centre for
Research in Health and Social Welfare Management, March 1999.
22.    Mid-Term Review of Training Under IPP-IXProject, Rajasthan, A Report, Indian Institute
of Health Management Research.
23.    Action Plan for Remaining Training Activities in IPP-IX Project (From 01.07.2000 to
31.12.2001). Review on Training Progress upto July 2000 & Targets upto 2001.
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution to ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT,
INDIA POPULATION PROJECT - IX
IDA CREDIT - 2630-IN
Department of Family Welfare
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
New Delhi
1.0   INTRODUCTION
Area development projects have been taken up under the National Family Welfare Programme with
financial assistance from external funding agencies in different States with a view to increase outreach and
coverage, while aiming to bring about reduction in maternal and child mortality and morbidity, in birth rate
and increase in the couple protection rate. These projects have contributed greatly towards the
development of the physical infra-structural facilities in the project states, and improved the quality of
health & family welfare services to the people. T he project has also been instrumental in bring down the
birth rate, death rate, infant mortality rate and increase in couple protection rate.
The World Bank assisted DCth India Population Project (IPP-IX) has been implemented since June 1994 in
the three states of Assam, Karnataka and Rajasthan. The project in Assam covers the entire state, in
Karnataka 13 Districts and in Rajasthan only 10 districts are covered The World Bank committed an IDA
credit of SDR 62.7 million for the project. The original cost of the project was Rs. 335 crores. The joint
Mid-Term Review by the World Bank and GOI of the project in November-December 1998 recommended
an additional provision for civil works to provide for escalation and cost over-runs to complete the number
of buildings originally planned and also to meet the additional activities consistent with the project
objectives. Accordingly, the cost of the project was enhanced to Rs. 414.06 crores in May 2000. Again, in
January, 2001 the cost of the project was enhanced to Rs. 422.59 crores from the earlier approved sum of
Rs. 414.06 crores primarily to meet the additional cost of Rs 8.53 crores for civil works in Assam. The
entire additional cost over and above the original approved cost was adjusted against the savings that
became available due to exchange rate variations. The project was implemented by the respective project
organisations in the three States, with the overall responsibility resting with the State Heath & Family
Welfare Departments. The project ended on 31st Dec 2001.
2.0    PROJECT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND STRATEGY
The specific objectives of the project were
*   To provide area specific health and Family welfare services to the rural population in the Assam,
Karnataka and Rajasthan.
*   To assist the three States to achieve reduction in birth rate, matemal and infant mortality rates.
2.1    Strategies
The project had adoptedfive broad strategies to achieve the desired objectives.
I.     Expand the health andfamily welfare service delivery system)in the three states. Creation
- 35 -



of additional facilities, up-gradation of existing facilities, provision of need based services and
introducing appropriate area specific ways of service delivery, construction and rehabilitation of
sub-centers, primary health centers and operation theatres, establishment of mobile clinics for
inaccessible area, furnishing and equipping of the health centers etc were planned.
II.    Increase the demandforfamily welfare services through (a) an expanded program of
information, education and communication (b) increased participation of private voluntary
orgaiization, private medical practitioners and the community in the family welfare programme.
HI.    Improve the quality offamily welfare services being providing to the rural population. It
was planned to (a) up-grade the supervisory, managerial, technical and inter-personnel skill at all
levels among new and existing medical and para-medical workers through pre-services, in-service
and on the job training (b) establish and upgrade facilities available for training in the three States.
IV.    Implement innovative scheme covering a wide range of additional services including
community based contraceptive depots, service delivery through NGOs in under served areas,
construction of sub-centres by NGOs, formation of health advisory committees etc.
V.     Strengthening the Management Information System and Project Management Structure
3.0    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement
* The precise impact of the project has been viewed in a much longer time frame than only
during the project implementation period. Most of the activities have been completed. The
assessment is based on the input and process indicators, supplemented by outcome indicators
based on the data available from the Base Line Survey, Mid-Term Review (MTR), End Line
Evaluation and State Reports.
*   The project substantially achieved its development objectives, especially those relating to
training systems and infrastructure development and paved the way for enhancing quality of
service delivery and care in FW and MCH. The experience, however, has been uneven for the
individual States.
*   The IPP - IX provided for an expansion in the health and family welfare service delivery
system in the three States through construction and equipping of buildings for sub-centers,
PHCs, training institutions and drug warehouses and by upgrading existing health facilities.
The project envisaged inter alia including a total of 2655 sub centers, 125 PHCs, 433 staff
quarters, 3 State level training institutes and 29 drug warehouses. The status of the civil work
at the end of the project is annexed in Table 1.0. It can be observed from the table that most of
the planned civil works have been completed as per the plan. The State of Karnataka has
repaired and renovated an additional 108 CHCs/PHCs and achieved 99.36% of targeted
construction of SCs and PHCs. Whereas the State of Rajasthan and Assam have achieved
nearly 100 percent of targeted construction of SCs and PHCs respectively.
- 36 -



Expand the health and family welfare service deliverv system
The stated project objective of "expand the supply offamily welfare services " has envisaged increased
coverage. The staff was already in place in most of the cases providing outreach services, either from
rented or makeshift premises before the launch of the project The constructed sub-centres and PHCs
under the project enhanced the working environment of the outreach workers by providing a facility from
which they could operate, maintain stores and records, and conduct clinical sessions. Similarly the add-on
OTs at PHCs/ FRUs enabled sterilization operations to be done in a proper facility and not in makeshift
camps'.
This component was allocated more than a half of the project resources. The objectives were substantially
accomplished, through support to the construction, upgrading and functioning of a large network of rural
health facilities/institutions. Altogether, more than 4,800 outreach facilities received new or upgraded
infrastructures. The facilities constructed, inter-alia, included about 2,511 Sub-Centres (SCs) - with
residential accommodation for the ANM. Similarly, about 1514 SC's were renovated whereas about 137
Primary Health Centres (PHCs) were upgraded, and 40 FRU's got the Operation Theatres (OTs). Drug
ware houses and training institutions were constructed in addition to these facilities.
Karnataka achieved about 99.36% of targeted construction of SCs and PHCs. 993 SCs out of 1000 SCs
and 100 out of 100 PHCs have been constructed and handed over to Taluka Health Officers for
operationalisation. The standard scales of sub-centres and PHCs furniture & equipment have been supplied
to them. 4250 existing SCs and 802 existing PHCs also have been supplied with augmented supply of
instruments and furniture. As per End Line Survey Facility utilization is 77.6% for SCs (clinic portion
utilization) though only 64.4% of ANMs have occupied the residential part of SCs. 88% of SCs are within
village limits. 464 PHCs, 22 CHCs and 1277 SCs in project area and 1460 facilities in non project area
have been rehabilitated fully, 58.12% of which are quality audited and certified that rehabilitation work has
been carried out satisfactorily.
Assam achieved 100 percent of targeted construction, up-gradation and renovation of SCs and PHCs.
Further, 90 State dispensaries were renovated. The new facilities and a large number of existing SCs and
PHCs, were fully equipped and furnished, and provided with essential supplies ranging from daily
consumables to blood pressure measuring instruments etc. About 150 generators were supplied to PHCs
and BPHCs in Assam. The fiuniture was supplied to 669 PHCs, 800 SCs, 100 upgraded PHCs and 50
Dispensaries have been supplied as per the norm where as in Karnataka, furniture was supplied to about
833 SCs, 460 PHCs/ MCWCs, training Institutes. Similarly the aforesaid facilities in both the States were
equipped with requisite equipments needed under the project. About 90 MTP suction apparatus were
provided to FRUs/PHCs/CHCs in Assam. 193 vehicles were purchased and replaced, strengthening the
referral and supervisory process.
In Rajasthan the procurement under service delivery inter alia included supply of furniture and equipment
to 833 SCs, 414 PHCs/ MCWCs, 138 FRUs and 2941 beds for the sub centres. However, the necessary
furniture and equipment could not been procured for HFWTC, Jodhpur and SIHFW, Jaipur, Rajasthan.
As a result, the overall physical and operational facilities were improved to render quality clinic based and
domiciliary services to the rural population,
Increase the demand for family welfare services
The Project envisaged achieving this objective in several ways - creating quality infrastructures with well
- 37 -



trained service providers and adequate equipment and supplies; orienting non-health functionaries and
opinion leaders at the community level to FW and MCH services; and finally, promoting Information,
Education and Communication (IEC), and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). These two later
components were also centrally administered by the MOHFW throughout the country as part of GOI's
ongoing national health programs. Approved activities were carried out in the three implementing States.
Although the Project utilized over Rs. 157 crore for IEC activities, the precise impact of the investments
made under this component is difficult to quantify, since the Project resources were combined with the GOI
funds and programs for nationwide coverage. It has been observed based on National Family Health
Survey, Mid term / End line evaluation reports and various RCH surveys that the knowledge and
awareness of the community and demand for the services has increased since beginning of the project
towards achieving project objective. However, the funds allocated for promotion of NGOs and build
up-partnerships with them to achieve project objectives were under spent. It indicates limited role the
NGOs have played in the project implementation across three states.
The IEC strategy in all the three States emphasised on broader reproductive health and multi-sectoral
approach while focussing the attention on spacing, delayed age of marriage, enhanced women's status,
counteracting male-child preference and involving women's groups. In this context, the IEC Cell was
created in Assam under the project. Project funds were used to develop innovative materials together with
strengthening all media channels, emphasis on inter-personal communication, audience segmentation and
area specific strategies. The activities were planed and implemented at State, district and block levels in
co-ordination with State health Bureau / Wing/ IEC personnel.
Community based distribution of contraceptives has been introduced in the State of Rajasthan, with
launching of innovative scheme, namely Jan Mangal in the year 1992 in Udaipur and Alwar districts. Since
then, it has spread to all the districts of the State. It aims at promoting and popularising the use of spacing
methods of birth control, to ensure success of family welfare programme. Under the Project, Jan Mangal
activities are being financed in 25 districts of the State, whereas, rest of the seven districts were covered
under Integrated Population and Development Project of UNFPA. In these 25 districts, 8697 Jan Mangal
couples have been selected, against a target of 11065. Training has been imparted to 7754 couples, of
which 7396 are functional in the field.
In Karnataka, market segmentation of population groups into unmarried women, currently married women
with nil / one child, with two or more children, old women, married males and opinion leaders like PRI
members, teachers, anganawadi workers, TBAs and health workers was done based on the findings of
[PP-IX communication needs survey. Twenty need-based messages specifically needed for each group
were designed. A revised IEC action plan was prepared and got approved at midterm joint WB and GOI
IPP-IX progress review meeting at Jaipur in May 2000. A reputed advertisement firm-OGILVY &
MATHER was involved in developing a media plan and its implementation.
State family planning offset press was made functional again and the departmental newsletter
"KUTUMBA" was restarted. State IEC officers' communication planning capabilities were strengthened.
As on Dec 2001 all the district health education officers of respective districts were supplied with new IEC
vans fitted with rear screens, state of the art video projectors and sound systems. TVs, VCRs, Video
cassettes of Family Welfare Tele-films, TV spots, 2 sets of panel exhibition sets with enough POL from
IPP-DC funds to tour 25 days / month to screen video shows and organize exhibitions quarterly in open air
theaters of 100 outreach villages in each District were ensured. The Van has facilitated 6791 shows.
In Assam, awareness generation activities like Baby Show, Quiz, Essay competitions, Seminars, Workshop
etc. were held at State, district and Block level. IEC activities through Radio spots, Quickies, telecast
- 38 -



through Doordarshan and local theatres were done. NGOs were involved to generate awareness among the
adolescent boys and girls and pregnant women on material and child health. The State revived the health
bulletin and its bi-monthly publication -'SWASTHYA SANBAD'. In additions to these major activities
many LEC interventions were done to enhance the awareness level of different stakeholders.
Improve the quality of family welfare services
Setting up improved institutional and management capacity was the principle strategy toward achieving
enhanced service quality and working environment. The focus was on training and skill development as the
pivot of operational efficiency at all levels. The Project was conceived within the broad framework of the
National Family Welfare Progrdm, with an emphasis on "quality" of services and as a step toward a
"program" approach - as distinct from the earlier "project" approach.
The main thrust for quality was on upgrading the knowledge and skills of the staff, with focus on training
as a core activity. In addition to training, several strategies were pursued to improve quality -
strengthening the supply dimension; upgrading physicalfacilities, equipment and vehicles; increasing
the demandfor services; and revamping the managerial processes. The satisfactory progress has been
made in all these areas.
Under training, the goal was to create 48 training facilities and train service providers and related persons
viz. medical, paramedical and trained birth attendants etc. The Project was successful in developing a
network of training infrastructure - a total of 46 institutions were built/renovated; and about 1.83 lac
persons were trained. The present status of the training sector achievements is given in Table 2 in the
annexe. Despite overall significant achievements, gaps have been observed between the targets and actual
output in some of the categories. The new SIHFW building were constructed in each of state of
Karanataka and Rajasthan. In Assam, SIHFW building was renovated with the project fund with added
classrooms. Four RHFWTC/ HFWTC and 43 DTC were constructed/extended in three project states.
Under the project in Assam TOT was completed and skill training undertaken to forrn part of ongoing RCH
programme. Training curriculum was prepared as per the project objectives in consultation with the State
Health Department. The Trainees were selected category wise and were trained at state, district and block
level. The trainings emphasised on retention of knowledge, skill and behavioural change of trainees. The
above indicators are reported to be good on evaluation that was also reflected in the Project indicators. It is
expected that there will be further improvement in the indicators if the training activities are continued
periodically in future also. During the Project period a total of 96,739 medical and para medical personnel
including MSS, WHP, TBAs and village leaders have been trained.
The project in Assam has not only expanded the training facilities through construction of district training
centres, expansion of RHFWTC and SHFWTC, Hostel facilities and supply of essential materials but has
also systematically organised training at State, district and block level and has thereby established a good
system of training.
In Rajasthan, the extensive training infrastructure that was established included State, regional and
district-level institutions. The most important achievement is the establishment of State Institute of Health
and Family Welfare (SIHFW), Jaipur, as an Apex Training Institution. Also a Regional Health and Family
Welfare Training Centre has been established at Jodhpur. Besides, 15 ANM Training centres have been
upgraded as District Training Centres, to facilitate In-service training to the Pam medical staff for ensuring
up-to-date knowledge and skill required for better and effective service dispensation. In addition, existing
two HFWTCs at Jaipur and Ajmer have also been provided inputs to strengthen them.
- 39 -



In Karnataka, skill based training to ANMs/ LHVs/ MPWs/ HAs/ BHEs was introduced both under IPP
syllabus under the first round as well as under RCH in the second round to improve quality of family
welfare services. Nearly 55,000 comnnunity volunteers were trained to support ANMs in family welfare
service delivery in linkage systems. A total of 14253 staff of both medical and para-medicals was trained.
The other major achievements included construction of one SIHFW, one HFWTC, 5 ANMTCs and 17
DTCs. All the training facilites constructed and upgraded have been fully equipped.
A significant number of trained managers, supervisors and service providers as well as non-health
functionaries are now available to provide and support effective and quality service delivery in all the three
states. During the Mid-Term Review, different categories of health personnel observed and interviewed in
the clinical and outreach settings received generally satisfactory ratings on most counts. A large number of
functionaries in PHCs and SCs and their supervisors were found to have received in-service training,
acquiring necessary skills in health and FW programs, such as: anti-natal care (ANC), post-natal care
(PNC), the "five cleans" (clean surface, hands, blade, cord tie and cord stump), signs and symptoms of
pregnancy, conduct of delivery, managing birth complications, immunization, family planning, record
keeping, IEC, management and supervision.
Efficiency Improvement
This objective was envisaged to be achieved through human resource development and by earmarking funds
for improving the management and operation of the FW program by: (a) strengthening administration and
management; (b) developing Human Resource Development Cells (HRDCs); (c) improving Management
Information Systems (MIES); (d) undertaking research on Program Management and Evaluation, and
Human Resources Development; (e) setting up Technical Advisory Committees; and (g) instituting regular
Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms to follow up implementation progress and bottlenecks.
The Project Management Unit of the respective States of the project facilitated implementation of various
project activities, by ensuring co-ordination between various project executing authorities and agencies.
The project management also provided regular feed back to the higher authorities of the State, MOHFW
and World Bank, regarding status of implementation and difficulties experienced in execution of project
activities etc., to find solutions of the difficulties and hindrances. The project management made timely
persuasions with the executing departments to ensure timely and quality implementation of various project
activities.
In order to improve management capacity by gathering, processing and taking quick data based decisions in
Karnataka, the MIES cell of Family Welfare Department has been strengthened by additional supply of
computers coupled with a new CNA software platform. Large number of community volunteers
approximately 55,000 has been trained to support ANMs in Family Welfare service delivery linkage
systems. Similarly under the project in Assam a computer unit has been established at the project
headquarters. It has helped in timely monitoring and evaluation of the project activities and data processing
in relation to the health services delivery. The computer system was freely used for flow of information. It
streamlined / quickened the administrative activities and its implementation. Similar facilities were
proposed for Drug Warehouses.
Under programme management in Rajasthan, the project has funded comprehensive contact and survey
drives in the State, which have facilitated smoothening of record keeping at the health institutions and
enforcing community needs assessment approach for RCH in the State. These contact and survey drives,
which were organised every year in all the villages of the States are unique, as these provide comprehensive
- 40 -



database required for successful implementation of Family Welfare Programme and RCH Programme in
the State. The other inputs inter alia included strengthening of computer system in the department at State
and district levels.
The project management unit in Rajasthan facilitated implementation of various project activities, by
ensuring coordination between various project executing authorities and agencies. The project management
also provided regular feed back to the higher authorities of the State, MOHFW and World Bank, regarding
status of implementation and difficulties experienced in execution of project activities etc., to find solutions
of the difficulties and various hindrances. The project management made timely persuasions with the
executing departments to ensure timely and quality implementation of various project activities.
The regular and periodic visit of World Bank Mission and technical experts to the project states has
contributed in enhancing the quality as well as the efficiency.
4.0    PROJECT COSTS AND EXPENDITURE
Total project cost and expenditure is depicted in the following table.
Rs (in Crores)
State                      Total Cost               Expenditure
Rajasthan                   124.94                        103.01
Assam                        144.37                        144.06
Karanataka as on 31/3/2002.  150.84                        137.08
Total                       422.58                        384.17
The component wise cost and expenditure in the three states is as follows:
Rs in Lakh
Category   Civil Work Equip.     Vehicle  Books &   IEC rg    ConsuL &    Incremental Total
Furniture           Trg. Mat            Fellowship   Salary
___________     ~~etc._      _ _ _ _
1          2          3        4         5        6            7
Rahasthan  5354.40    970.68     41.01    47.58      1567.57  358.39       1962.04    10301.67
Assam      8742.89    3495.85    6.89     33.14      1164.05  49.00       915.17       14406.99
Karnataka  8822.03    1841.44    653.12   164.06     1161.61  126.47       940.11      13708.84
22919.32   630797     701.02   244.78    3893.23   533.86      3817,32     38417.59
5.0    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
The regular joint GOI-WB periodical review, Mid Term Reviews and End Line Survey observed number of
factors which affected the desired pace of implementation. Some of them are as under:-
The neeative factors included the followinn:
-41 -



(a)    Preparedness in the Beginning of the Project: This was a challenge to all the States as quantified
monitoring indicators were largely in abeyance in the beginning of the project. The State's knowledge of the
Bank's procurement procedures was highly deficient; and staffing and delegation of powers to the project
authorities / implementing units was inadequate, especially with respect to civil works, procurement, and
financial management.
(b)    Management and Staffing: The State Empowered Committees were set up with delayand meetings
of the same were not held regularly, resulting in delay in decision making process and delayed
implementation. Further, the Project Director was also not delegated administrative and financial powers.
Staff appointment and frequent transfers was also a perpetual problem. Rajasthan and Karnataka had
eleven and nine Project Directors during the project period respectively. Nearly perennial vacancies in
many operational and training positions, coupled with concurrent holding of several positions by an
individual arising out of financial difficulties of the States have been observed. The states' concern to avoid
pernanent liability beyond the project period also proved debilitating e.g. procurement and MIS sections
were totally vacant for two years in Karnataka, which affected functions of both these units for the period.
The project was implemented with head of IEC wing vacant for most of project life and even up to the end
of project period. The same is the case in the state of Rajasthan.
(c)    Monitoring: Lack of a systemic and regular monitoring mechanism at the State & District levels
coupled with inadequate field visits affected the implementation of the project adversely.
(d)    Co-ordination: Project Management Unit (PMU) was created and made responsible for the
implementation of the project in each state. PMU has remained separate entity from the State's Family
Welfare Directorate during the project period. Linkages and coordination levels/ points between the
Directorate and PMU has not been established. As a result, at the end of the project, some of the activities
of the project have not been budgeted in the yearly state budget
(e)    Fund Flow: While GOI released the Project funds regularly to the State Finance Departments
(SFDs), flow of funds from SFDs to the Project Implementation Unit in Rajasthan was a major constraint.
Finance Department and Accountant General in Kamataka were not in favour of authorizing large number
of district level officers to draw funds from the State sector project funds. In view of this, there were some
delays in funds flow to different field offices for some of the software activities.
(f)    Civil Works: Lack of the appropriate engineering cells in the Implementation Units and
ineffective coordination with the agencies responsible for construction - the Public Works Department
(PWD), DRDA in Rajasthan for many activities led to problems of quality control, delayed completion and
cost escalation. Undue delays were also observed in handing over and operationalising the completed
buildings. In certain cases it was also observed that the States did not include external development work
and external civic services like electricity, water, drainage and sewerage in the final estimates which also
resulted in delay in operationalising such buildings. In Kamnataka, the implementing agencies in the districts
were mostly under administrative control of altogether different departments (Rural Development and
Panchayat Raj / PWD) supervision over them was found to be extremely difficult and there were delays in
getting requisite information/ support.
(g)    Procurement: The procurement capacity of the project States was found to be weak. This
resulted in delay in procurement and also affected its quality. Due to inadequate co-ordination between the
civil works and procurement, many of the completed buildings remained non-operational for some time.
-42 -



This was because of non-availability of requisite supplies in some cases while in other cases the supplies
were procured much before completion of civil works.
Procurement in other matters also suffered, especially during the early years, due to inadequate familiarity
of the States with IDA procedures and non-delegation of powers to the project authorities. In Rajasthan, the
procurement suffered badly due to delay in requisite approval by various committees despite appointment
of HSCC as the nodal procurement agency.
(h)    Public Private Partnership: In Rajasthan the project envisaged construction of sub-centres with
the share contribution by NGOs and DRDAs. The share could not be provided by these agencies with the
result, there was no construction of sub centers for more than 3 years.
(i)    Inappropriate Implementation: The activities envisaged in the project design were not
implemented as per the approved project schedule. This resulted in accumulation of backlog of activities
and under utilization of funds during most of its life. Due to this the States had to revise their targets and
were also under pressure to complete all activities and utilise funds towards the end of the project
(j)    Commitment: The project at district and taluka level is implemented through medical officers.
The implementing medical officers at district and taluka level were not public health physicians, but of
many surgical postgraduate specialities whose commitment to Public Health and FW programmes was less
than to their specialities.
Despite the above constraints, the project made significant achievements. The following were some of the
positive factors.
Positive Factors.
*   Proactive Initiatives: Committed project directors and top management at the state level did make
a difference from time to time. The continuity of the Project Director in Assam and regular
meetings of the state empowered/ steering committees facilitated project to achieve its targets.
*   Visits of the World Bank Missions: Regular visits of the World Bank Missions facilitated
identification of weaknesses/shortfalls of the projects with a view to take appropriate remedial
action and supplement new activities in line with the project objectives.
*   Utilisation of External Resources: Experiments of using professional advertisement firms in
social marketing of Health and Family Welfare messages brought in greater visibility to the
programme.
*   Involvement of faculty of professional management schools as guest lecturers for imparting
management training to health staff undertaken as an innovative policy in Karnataka and the same
was received well by trainees and trainers in the State.
*   Strengthening Management Information System: Computerized tracking and monitoring of
Project activities progress by IPP-IX and adopting E-mail Communications greatly improved the
efficiency of the project. Installation of Computers in Taluka Health Offices and connecting them
by WAN with DBFWO Offices, DTCs and DHFWOs and Project office resulted in more efficient
monitoring and faster feed back and enlarge the project stake holders web.
-43 -



Similarly the computerisation of project offices has also greatly helped in improving their
efficiencies.
*   Appropriate Utilisation of Staff Quarters: Permitting contract doctors to occupy the medical
officer quarters have resulted in wider utilisation of these buildings in Karnataka.
*   Innovative / NGO Schemes: The innovative schemes and the experience of NGOs involvement in
the three states demonstrated that such schemes could be taken up at wider scale to enhance the
effectiveness of health and family welfare programmes.
Rajasthan - Organisation of health camps in remote and hilly areas on fixed day and time, association with
the campaign " Prashashan Gaon Ke Sang" has directly benefited over 40 million people. The schemes
such as interest free loan for purchase of vehicles, support to implementation of neo-natal tetanus toxide
campaign, formulation of HRD/Training Policy, associating NGOs with varying activities e.g. mobile
camps, facility survey, Jan Mangal Scheme etc., has contributed towards achieving project objectives.
Karnataka - Use of video van for outreach villages on experimental basis, supply of Nirodh through PDS
shops, involvement of industrial houses in LEC, non-formal education for girls and young people,
community incentives, mobile clinics and clubs for newly married couples are some of the innovative
interventions implemented to meet the desired objectives. Street plays tele- serials and radio serials also
helped reaching the large section of the population.
Assam - Baby show, quiz, essay competitions, seminars, workshops held at State, districts and block levels
focussing on breast feeding, birth spacing and ante-natal care have been of much effect. IEC activities
through radio, telecast of spots and local theatre have helped a lot in generating awareness in general
public.
6.0    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The issue of sustainability in the context of the evolving demands of the family welfare program needs to be
approached with realism and as a process much beyond the limited horizon of the present project. This
needs special attention in the context of relative isolation of project efforts from mainstream activities in
health and related areas during the implementation. Nevertheless, significant strides have been made
toward setting up a vast network of infrastructure and staff development for enhanced training and service
delivery. Their potential contribution is certainly promising. All the States have assured considerable
additional investments to bring the investments made under the project tofullfruition to ensure
sustainability. All the States have already initiated steps in this direction by making adequate provision in
the State budget and by coordinating with the other programme been funded by the State/GOL.
The State Government of Karnataka had taken steps to ensure sustainability of 19 DTCs and the SIHFW.
A position of Director, SIHFW from a senior grade has been created. Provision of separate budget head for
training in SIHFW and DTCs has been made. Salaries and allowances of staff working in DTCs and
SIHFW up to March 2002 has already been provided by the Steering Committee resolutions. Budget
estimates for payment of salary and allowances, office expenses and POL has been placed under State
Family Welfare plan amounting to about Rs 23 million annually. All training institutions were furnished
and equipped with training equipment during the current year. Sufficient training modules and materials
catering to the needs until 2003 were supplied to the training institutes. Provisions for the maintenance of
- 44 -



facilities created under IPP-LX has been made by increasing the non-wage-non plan budget for the coming
year through the mechanism of the Mid Term fiscal plan. Regarding IEC component, the state decided that
Radio and Tele-serials will be broadcast and telecast for three months April to June from 2002 onwards
every year under RCH / HNP project. The Government further decided that arrangement made under the
project like managing Thithimathi and Gumbahalli PHC by the NGOs would continue for next 10 years.
Similarly, the EEC vehicles with the facilities of screening films in 27 districts will continue to cover
outreach villages through the funds provided by the RCH budget. PVOs activities like mobile medical units
and link workers schemes implemented by local entrepreneurial NGOs will be sustained under RCH / HNP
projects.
The Goveming Body of the Society responsible for effective implementation of the project decided and
proposed to the Govemment of Assam to maintain the health institutions up to the level of PHCs by the
community through Panchayati Raj system. The State PWD will maintain rest of the buildings constructed
under the project. Similarly, the state also decided to continue training and IEC activities through RCH
budget. The Department of Health would pay the salaries of the training institution's staff. All the training
institutions were furnished and have necessary equipment desired for the organisation of training
programmes with appropriate infrastructure and material such as training materials, books etc. The IEC
activities will continue under RCH.
The Government of Rajasthan is also in the process of making requisite financial provisions in the state
budget to sustain the efforts made under the project.
7.0    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Taking into consideration the significant achievements, the project can be termed as very satisfactory. The
infrastructure created and Human Resource Development in the project period has resulted in improvement
of provision of service delivery and its quality. These would now need to be consolidated in order to ensure
continued upgrading of the quantity and quality of services that the Project initiated. While the quantifiable
outcome indicators on infrastructure and personnel development provide evidence of considerable
achievement in capacity building of training and quality service delivery, it is too early to assess the precise
impact of the Project in terms of specific behavioural changes among the clients and the providers, and
their implications for the family welfare and health indicators. The assessment and impact of the project
would be deliberated in detail after the results of the End-line Survey are out. However, based on the
available programmatic data the improvements in some of the health indicators are given as under:
Indicators        Assam              Karnataka            Raasthan
SRS,       Endline    Baseline  Endline  Baseline  Endline
1997-98                        .
CBR        28.20      27.19      28.30    20.6       36.89    32.35
TFR        3.20       3.05       3.30     2.2        5.08     4.70
IMR        76.0'      61.61      66.9     40.2       128.66   39.0
CPR        18.8       44.3       49.9     60.8       126.66   41.1
-45 -



W of 1996
' ' of 1997
U Based on a very small sample and need to be interpreted carefully
In addition to above indicators, the end line survey in three states provided insights towards the process
and other indicators:
* The mean age at marriage in case of both men and women
* Percentage of children in 12-23 months fully immunised and by antigen
*   Percentage of expectant women who received Anti Natal care by number of contacts, receipts of TT,
receipt and consumption of IFA and % of expectant women registeredfor AN care during the first
trimester.
* Percentage of births attended by skilled health personnel - doctors or trained midwife excluding TBA
(Trained or untrained).
*   Percentage of women who perceive that clinic hours/days are convenient and % of women in
reproductive age with knowledge of location of essential obstetric care services
*   Percentage of children underfive who sufferedfrom diarrhoea during past 15 days, and % of those
with diarrhoea who were referred or received ORS
* Percentage of women and men in reproductive age familiar with different contraceptive methods and
their availability:
*   % Couples having unmet need for contraceptive services
*   % new clients in reproductive age receiving counselling for contraceptives
* Screening of FP methods users
* Level of satisfaction about the current method among the contraceptive users.
* Unmet Need
* Percentage of clients informed of timing and sources of re-supply/revisit for contraceptives
*   the mean age at marriage in case of both men and women is below legal age at marriage in case of
Rajasthan as over two third of the men and women are married before the legal age. However in case of
Karnataka the mean age at marriage for women is just reaching the legal age and while it is quite above
the legal age in Assam. In case of age at marriage for men, the age ranged from 19 in case of Rajasthan
to 24 and 27 years for Karnataka and Assam respectively. The mean age for the first pregnancy ranged
from 19 years in case of Rajasthan to 20 in Karnataka to 21 in Assam.
* Percentage of children in 12-23 months fully immunized and by antigen
The status of immunization is an important process indicator that provides benchmark for child health.
The end line results of various states show that in increase has been observed in case of children (12-23
months) who had received all the requisite doses in case of vaccines. In case of Rajasthan an increase
of 12 per cent has been noticed (19 to 31) while the corresponding increase was about I per cent in
case of Karnataka State. In case of Assam when end line results are compared to the second round of
National Famnily Health Survey, an increase of 27 per cent has been noticed.
In both Rajasthan and Assam where immunization status by antigen has been provided, it can be
noticed that BCG continues to be the most popular vaccine, followed by the DPT and OPV
respectively.
-46 -



*   Percentage of expectant women who received AN care by number of contacts, receipts of TT, receipt
and consumption of IFA and % of expectant women registeredfor AN care during the first trimester
More number of women are now registering themselves for ante-natal services and are doing so by the
end of the first trimester. About 93 per cent women are now registered for ante-natal care in Karnataka
compared with the base line figures of 70 per cent, whereas the corresponding increase is about 16 per
cent in case of Rajasthan and over two third are now registering themselves for ante-natal care in
Assam. One of the important indicators of ANC is timing of registration for the ANC. It can be seen
from Table X that nearly two thirds and over half of the registration are now being done by the end of
the first trimester in Karnatak and Assam respectively, while about half of the women are doing so in
Rajasthan. The increase in registrations during the first trimester is an important process indicator and
it has shown tremendous increase in Rajasthan (from 32 to 49) and in Karnataka states. In case of
Assam also compared to NFHS II, a good increase has been registered.
*   Percentage of births attended by skilled health personnel - doctors or trained midwife excluding TBA
An increase in the institutional deliveries has been noticed during the project period but a majority of
deliveries continue to be domicillary. In Karnataka, the number of institutional deliveries has doubled
while the increase is small in case of Assarn and Rajasthan, where it has gone up 10 and 2 per cent
respectively. The percentage of deliveries by a trained personnel has also gone up albeit by a small
margin.
*   Percentage of women who perceive that clinic hours/days are convenient and % of women in
reproductive age with knowledge of location of essential obstetric care services
An overwhelming majority of the respondents in Rajasthan perceived the clinical hours to be
convenient and comparative information is not available from the other states. As far as knowledge of
location of essential obstetrics services is concemed, a majority of the respondents (89%) knew about
the same whereas the corresponding figures for Kamataka are about 45 per cent.
*   Percentage of children underfive who sufferedfrom diarrhoea during past 15 days, and % of those
with diarrhoea who were referred or received ORS
There has been an increase in the number of cases where Diarrhoea was effectively managed during the
project period. It has been seen that though reference period for diarrhoea was different in the all states
and therefore prevalence of diarrhoea also varied from state to state. The number of cases that were
effectively managed has doubled (from 18 to 40%) in Rajasthan and more than three-fourths cases are
being referred in Kamataka and Assam.
*   Percentage of women and men in reproductive age familiar with different contraceptive methods and
their availability
There is an increase in the knowledge of both men and women regarding contraceptives and their
availability during the project. Except in case of Assam where no particular trend has been seen in the
absence of a proper base line information, the knowledge regarding various contraceptives and their
availability has gone up by 5 to 12 per cent in case of modem methods in Rajasthan and Kamataka.
While conducting end-line survey in the state of Rajasthan an effort has been made to collect
information on the following vital indicators and the corresponding information is not available from
-47 -



the other states
*   Unmet Need
As per the end line survey unmet need for spacing was 4.8 per cent while the unmet need for limiting
was 13.9 per cent. Therefore a total unmet need of 18.7 was found among the surveyed eligible women
living in the project area in Rajasthan.
*   Percentage of clients informed of timing and sources of re-supply/revisitfor contraceptives
Among those who are currently using any modem FP method about 31 per cent mentioned that the
health worker made the follow-up visits and 13 per cent of the respondents in Rajasthan also mentioned
that they were informed about the timing and sources of revisit.
8.0    THE LESSONS LEARNT
*   There are chronic and persistent operational problems that adversely affect implementation of all
family welfare projects in weaker states. These include poor flow of funds to the implementing agency
in states that experience fiscal problems, low procurement capacity, persistent staff vacancies and high
turnover, and lengthy decision-making processes. These often relate to macro-economic difficulties
and problems of governance at the state level, and are beyond the scope of individual project teams to
address effectively. Unless resolved at an apex level, they continue to constrain implementation and
create problems of long-range sustainability.
* GOI needs to consider creating incentives to states through performance-based financing during project
implementation. In IPP IX, Government of India released funds regularly to the State Finance
Departments (SFDs), but the onward flow of funds from the SFDs to the project units was impeded as
result of financial difficulties at the state level. Such a situation would need to be guarded against
through performance-based financing referred to above or through reallocation of funds to project
states.
*   The project design from the beginning should clearly incorporate phase-out strategy with the clear
provisions of making project interventions sustainable after the project period. It is essential to build in
appropriate mechanisms to ensure quality assurance for interventions as well as continuous monitoring
systems. The mechanisms to orient various committees and staff members of project and relevant
people about the Banks procedures, rules and regulations etc must be a part of project design.
*   The project design from the beginning should incorporate mechanisms to develop common
understanding of the project objectives, approaches, systems and procedures. If new systems have been
developed or proposed for the project, it must be made known to every one. At the same time
mechanisms must ensure that at the time of change in the leadership of the project, the new person get
appropriate induction of project concept and over all project cycle components.
* Centralized system of functioning would be useful for hardware component whereas decentralized way
of functioning provides better results wherein the software activities are involved.
*   The newly constructed facilities must be registered at the PWD development register to ensure
appropriate maintenance. This is based on lessons from the IPP VII where these properties were not
entered in the registers of PWD and were, as a consequence, neglected for maintenance.
-48 -



*   The project should prepare detailed action plan to integrate all the project components with in the
existing health system of the state and take the action appropriately.
*   A person of commissioner rank to minimise the delays must head the Project Procurement Committee.
*   Computerized tracking and monitoring of Project activities, adopting e-mail communications,
installation of computers in Taluka Health Offices and connecting them by WAN with DHFWO
Offices, DTCs and DHFWOs and project office have resulted in improving efficient monitoring and
faster feed back system.
*   Use of professional advertisement firms in social marketing of health and family welfare messages,
involvement of faculty of professional management schools as guest lecturers for imparting
management training is found to be very effective approach.
*   Inter-sectoral co-ordination was found to be a difficult task and required different area specific
approaches. Creative ideas are needed for the better utilisation of newly constructed facilities e.g.
permitting doctors who are on contract services to occupy the residential quarters meant for MOs has
resulted in wider operationalisation of these buildings in Kanataka.
*   The tenure of the Project Director and the fund flow mechanisms ensuring timely receipt of funds by
the project authority with requisite delegation of financial powers to them are pre-requisite for the
success of project.
*   District and Taluka (Sub-District) health administrations are critical crossover points in delivery of
Public Health and Family Welfare Services. It has been experienced that it could be better for project
effectiveness if District and Taluka Project Implementation Committees would exist to monitor project
activities.
*   One Project Management Unit that is situated at state level cannot do monitoring of large number of
ongoing civil works. The community participation could be more encouraged at Zilla Panchayat level
for better effectiveness of project implementation. Zilla Panchayat could take a lead role in monitoring
the progress of civil works and regular monitoring could be priority agenda item in its monthly general
and subject meetings.
*   Project Implementation Plan (PIP) should go into all details of implementation. Preferably the persons
who were involved in the preparation of PIP should also be involved in the implementation of the
project for the first two years at least The funds flow and accounting / audit procedures to be clearly
firmed up in the PIP to avoid loss of valuable time on such procedural issues after commencement of
the project.
*   The soft activities of the project should also be initiated from the beginning to have greater and faster
impact.
-49 -



Table 1.0: State-wise Project Targets and Achievements
S              Activity                  Assam        I      Karnataka                Rjasthan
CIVIL WORKS          )Target  Achievements Targ et    [chi"vementarget      |AJhievement
N_-, F rt   i 10 Y\ 11 14 J\i .   Jk'AN N W1\ (Nl SlT1(1T. D1:I JVFRY   _
I      Sub Centres              800       800          1000       993         855        808
2       Construction of PHC      -        -            100        100         25         23
3      Upgradation of PHCs to        -                 -          -           10         9
CHCs
4       Construction of OT at FRUs -                                          45         40
5       Staff Quarters for ANMs  88       88           -          -           -          -
6       Quarters for Medical Offtce -     -            270        266
7       Staff Quarters for Grade IV  75   75           -          -
8    Upgradation of existing State  100   l00
dispensaries to PHCs
9    Renovation of State dispensary 90    90           -
10     Renovation of sub-centres  250     250          1277       1277                   -
II     Constructions of OT at FRUs   -          -                 -           45         40
12   Upgradation of             37        37                                  10         9
PHCs/CHCs/Hospital as FRUs
1 3  Rep. and Renovation of existing 39   39           375        483         -
CHCs/PHC                   I       .I    _        I _
CONSTRUCTION RELATED TO TRAINING FACILITIES
14   Construction/ Extension     I        I            I          I     1           1
SHFWTC/ SIHFW
15   Construction/ Extension of  I        I            I          1           2          2
RHFWTC/ HFWTC                                  _                 _
16   Construction / Extensions /
Upgradations of the training
Schools
a) School building for trg.
(DTC)
b) l00 bedded hostel for GNM  2      22           6          6            1 5        1 5
_                           4        4             19         19
17   20 bedded Nurses' hostel   5         5        _                          -          -
18   Constructions of FPDAs           _                                       15         14
19   Accommodation at Field     16        16
Practice Areas               _____                                                   _
2   Other Remarks                      _
c) OTHER
CONSTRUCTIONS                                    .
21   Construction of Project Directo I    I                                              .
building with approach road an
boundary wall
22   Construction of Central/ Stat I      I
Level Drug warehouse
- 50 -



Cont...
S#              Activity                 Assam               Karnataka                Rasthan
Target   Achievement Target    Achievement   Target    HAchievement
23    Construction of Zonal     5         5           -
warehouses
24    Construction of Drug      -         -           -                       23         22
warehouse (Minor)
25    Construction of Drug                            -                       5          5
warehouse (Major)
26    Completion of incomplete   I        1                -                  -          -
work of boys Hostel
(SHFWTC)
27    Completion of incomplete   1        I            -
work of SHTO
28    Institute of Pharmacy (SMC)  1      1           -
29    Completed of incomplete work 1      1           -
of boys' hostel (SHFWTC)
(i) Repairing and renovation o I
girls' hostel for SHFWTC,
(ii) Repairing and renovation       1
of SHFWTC
30    Regional Nursing College  0         1
boundary wall etc
31    Computer site preparation  -        -
32    Upgradation. of Central SHTO I      I
workshop (with boundary wall,
electrification and approach
road and water supply and
removal and shifting H.T. line)    I
- 51 -



Table 3: Human Resource Development - Training Coverage
S # Activity                              Assam           I     Karnataka               Raj jasthan
ITarget     [Achievement  Target   |Achievement  Target    Achievement
Category of Health personnel
I     Core                        10          11           57        67           -         -
Trainers
2     State Level Officers                    -            -         -             114      20
3     District Level Officers                                                      300      92
4     SMOs/ Dy CMHOs              -           -            -         -             956      498
5     MOs including Sr. Supervisory 4895      2489          1676     1867          2573     2490
officer
6     DPHN                        23          15           -         -             -        -
7     DEMOs and Dy.               46          36           -         -
DEMOs
8     BEEs / HEs/                 1040        537          527       339           -        -
BHEs
9     HW (F) / ANMs/              6720        5636          8741     10835         14628     13427
MPWs
I 0   HW(F)/ANM Trained outside  -            46           -         -             -        -
the state                                     _
11    HA (F) / LHVs/ Sector      960          540           1000     100           1920     1525
supervisors
12    Basic Training of           1500        788          -         -             -        -
GNMs
13    PMAs                       4440         5122         -         -
14    TBAs                        15000       10386
15    Training faculty           250          261          67        57
16       Private Medical         3000         314
Practitioners
17      MSS (IEC)                35,000       21781        -
18      WHP (IEC)                75000        44967
19    OTC (IEC)                  4900         3780          1120     523
20    SHAM                         ___                      3738     2290
21    CVs                          __     _                 155905   54506
22    IEC Workshops              46           34                                             .
- 52 -






Report No.:        23855
Type:     ICR



