Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2630 IN
                             Project Agreement
         (Family Welfare (Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka) Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                              STATE OF ASSAM
                            STATE OF KARNATAKA
                            STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                            Dated June 24, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2630 IN
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and THE STATES of ASSAM, KARNATAKA AND
RAJASTHAN (ACTING BY THEIR RESPECTIVE GOVERNORS) (referred to collectively
hereinafter as Project States).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Association
(the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
62,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
and
      WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower have agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble thereto, and in
the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out their respective parts
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, family welfare and
medical practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project
States shall carry out their respective parts of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Each of the Project States shall carry out the obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land aquisi- tion, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement and that part of the Project carried out by each of them
respectively.
      Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by each of the Project States of its respective
obligations under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of activities
related to their respective parts of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Project States responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   Each Project State shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, certified copies of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  3
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof,
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                  terminate in accordance with its terms; or
           (ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Project States of this
event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For Assam:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Assam
            Guwahati, India
      For Karnataka:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Karnataka
            Bangalore, India
      For Rajasthan:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Rajasthan,
            Jaipur, India
Page  4
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of each Project State may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary
or such other person or persons as the respective Project State shall
designate in writing and each of the Project States shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                  STATE OF ASSAM
                  STATE OF KARNATAKA
                  STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this
Project, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by
the Association, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
Page  5
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts (a) for office, furniture, health kits, laboratory and
medical equipment estimated to cost $50,000 or more but no more than
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount for the Project
not exceeding $9,400,000 equivalent; and (b) for civil works (except as
provided in paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule) shall be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for civil works up to an aggregate value of $6,600,000 shall
be carried out by the relevant Project State through force account, or using
local communities or non-governmental organizations, under procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    (i) Furniture, office, laboratory and medical equipment, training
materials, and health kits, estimated to cost up to $50,000 equivalent per
contract; and medical materials, books and medicines estimated to cost
$25,000 or more but no more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount for the Project not exceeding $7,600,000 equivalent; and
(ii) vehicles up to an aggregate amount for the Project not exceeding
$300,000 equivalent shall be procured under quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
4.    Medicines and medical materials, teaching aids, books and medicines
estimated to cost up to $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount for the Project not exceeding $2,300,000  equivalent shall be
procured either (i) under quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers; or (ii) under direct contracts with suppliers thereof, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Publicity services estimated to cost up to an aggregate value of
$1,300,000 for the Project shall be procured by the Borrower or Project
States under direct contracts with the Borrower's Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting, or with the relevant department or agency of the State
Government.
6.    IEC services estimated to cost up to $25,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate value of $3,000,000 shall be procured by the Borrower or Project
States from local commercial suppliers of such services, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
7.    Mopeds, motorcycles and bicycles estimated to cost up to $2,000 per
contract up to an aggregate of $4,900,000 shall be purchased by end-users
in accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the bank.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part
A hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods or civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
Page  6
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and Project States in implementing the
Project, each of them shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower and the Project States shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Association, the Borrower and Project States shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than the $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
Project Management, Planning, Review and Reporting
1.    Each Project State shall respectively establish or appoint by October
30, 1994 and maintain with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association: (i) the State Empowered Committee (Assam and Rajasthan); (ii)
the Project Governing Board (Karnataka); (iii) the Project Management
Committee (Assam), Steering Committee (Karnataka) or the Monitoring
Committee (Rajasthan), as the case may be; (iv) the Project Secretariat and
the Project Director in Rajasthan; (v) the Project Directorate; (vi) the
Project Director (Assam), Project Coordinator (Karnataka) or Project
Coordinator (Rajasthan); and (vii) District Coordinating Committees
(Rajasthan).
2.    Each Project State shall appoint by December 31, 1994 key staff
responsible for Project implementation.
3.    Each Project State shall ensure that the Empowered Committee for the
Project shall hold regular meetings as required, not less than once every
six months, to assist in effective Project implementation.
4.    Each Project State shall submit to the Association by January 31 of
each year annual plans for civil works, training, IEC, MIS and service
Page  7
delivery for the following 12 months, with form and content satisfactory to
the Association.
5.    Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement, each
Project State shall submit to the Association by May and November of each
calendar year starting May, 1995, six-monthly progress reports on Project
implementation with form and content satisfactory to the Association.
6.    Without limiting the generality of any other provision of this
Agreement, each Project State shall (i) carry out, by July 31, 1995 a base-
line survey of family welfare status and access with scope and content
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) on the basis of procedures and
monitoring benchmarks satisfactory to the Association, carry out by December
31, 1997 a mid-term review of the Project with the Association to evaluate
progress in Project implementation including quality of services provided
under the Project; (iii) take into account the findings of such review
during further implementation of the Project; and (iv) carry out by
March 31, 2001, final evaluation surveys with scope and content satisfactory
to the Association including family welfare status and access.
7.    Each Project State shall monitor the implementation of its State
Action Plan using key indicators satisfactory to the Association and shall
promptly provide to the Association periodic reports on progress in
implementation of such State Action Plan.
State Action Plans:
8.    Each Project State shall carry out its respective State Action Plan.
Selection of CHCs, PHCs and Sub-Centers
9.    Each Project State shall select the location and sites of CHCs, PHCs
and sub-centers providing family welfare services, in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association.
Operation and Maintenance
10.   Without limiting the generality of any other provision of this
Agreement, each Project State shall ensure that adequate resources are
provided on a timely basis as required for the maintenance of designated
family welfare facilities and shall ensure that such facilities are
adequately maintained.
Provision of Drugs and Other Medical Materials:
11.   Each Project State shall ensure that adequate supplies of drugs and
medical materials are made available to sub-centers, PHCs, CHCs and FRUs on
a timely basis inter alia by: (a) establishing by December 31, 1994, an
essential drugs list for use in the family welfare program; (b) ensuring
that from January 1, 1995, only drugs and other medical materials on the
essential drugs list referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph are
purchased for the use of the family welfare program; and (c) mobilizing
incremental resources for sub-centers, PHCs and FRUs for medicines and other
required medical materials.
Tribal and Remote Areas
12.   Each Project State shall ensure that the Project is implemented in
tribal and remote areas, and in respect of migratory communities in
Rajasthan, in accordance with the implementation plan agreed with the
Association.
Non-Governmental Organizations
13.   Each Project State shall select non-governmental organizations and
private medical practitioners for providing services under the Project in
accordance with procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Association.
Innovative Schemes
14.   Each Project State shall carry out innovative schemes under Part E(1)
of the Project selected with the approval of the Association.
Page  8
Karnataka
Rehabilitation of Family Welfare Facilities:
15.   Karnataka shall commence by July 1, 1995 a program satisfactory to the
Association for the rehabilitation of family welfare facilities constructed
prior to the commencement of the Project consisting of:
      (a)   rehabilitation of about 2500 family welfare facilities,
primarily sub-centers, by December 31, 1997; and
      (b)   rehabilitation of all remaining facilities by July 1, 1999.
