CREDIT NUMBER 2630 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Family Welfare (Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka) Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               24       , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2630 1N
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     JI^E 2+-     , 1994, between INDIA,
acting  by  its   President,  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the States of Assam,
Rajasthan and Karnataka (hereinafter collectively referred to as
Project States), with the assistance of the Borrower, and as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project
States the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date between the Association and the Project
States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ANM" means Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife;
(b)   "Assam" means the Borrower's state of Assam, or any
successor thereto;


﻿- 2 -
(c)   "CHC" means community health center, an adequately
staffed and equipped family welfare facility intended to cater to a
population of about 100,000 people;
(d)   "district" means a district of a Project State;
(e)   "FY" or "financial year" means the financial year of the
Borrower, which begins on April 1 each year and ends on March 31 of
the following year;
(f)   "FRU" means first referral unit, a health facility able
to provide adequate care for pregnancies and deliveries with medical
complications;
(g)   "IEC" means information, education, communication;
(h)   "Karnataka" means the Borrower' s state of Karnataka, or
any successor thereto;
(i)   "MIS" means management information system;
(j)   "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
(k)   "National Action Plan" means the 'Action Plan for
Revamping the Family Welfare Programme', adopted by the Borrower's
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in 1992;
(1)   "PHC" means Primary Health Center, an adequately staffed
and 'equipped family welfare facility intended to cater to a
population of about 30,000 people;
(m)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Project States as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)   "Project State" means Assam, Rajasthan or Karnataka as
the context shall require; and "Project States" means, collectively,
the States of Assam, Rajasthan or Karnataka;
(o)   "Rajasthan" means the Borrower's state of Rajasthan, or
any successor thereto;
(p)   "Rupees" or the sign "Rs." means the currency of the
Borrower;


﻿-3-
(q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(r)   "State Action Plan" means respectively the Action Plan
for Revamping the Family Welfare Programme of Assam, Karnataka and
Rajasthan, and "State Action Plans" means the three State Action
plans, collectively;
(s)   "sub-center" means an adequately staffed and equipped
family welfare facility serving a population of about 3,000-5,000
people; and
(t)   "tribal area" means any area notified as such by a
Project State
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
62,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not


﻿4-
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall   reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 comencing
December 1, 2004 and ending June 1, 2029. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2014 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-


﻿-5-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part E of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, family welfare and medical
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall ,ause the
Project States to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the prov,.sion of funds,
facilities, services and other resources necessary o,: appropriate to
enable the Project States to perform such obligations, and shall not


﻿- 6 -
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to each Project State for such part of the Project as is
carried out respectively by that Project State, in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance to
the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out respectively by the Project States
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the accounts and records of its departments and agencies
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i) have such records and accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such


﻿- 7 -
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association .shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all   records  (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together


﻿- 8 -
with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that any Project State will perform
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall have failed to carry out the National
Action Plan, or shall have amended the National Action Plan in a
manner that adversely affects the ability of the Borrower, in a
material and substantial manner, to implement, or achieve the
objectives of, the Project.
(d)   Any Project State shall have failed to carry out its
respective State Action Plan or shall have amended such State Action
Plan in a manner that adversely affects the ability of the Borrower,
in a material and substantial manner, to implement, or achieve the
objectives of, the Project.
(e)   Karnataka shall have failed to carry out a program for
rehabilitation of family welfare facilities, agreed with the
Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days


﻿-9-
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and the Project State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinioni or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratiffed by each Project State and is
legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
zepresentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:               Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association.
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
/9 AJ  VALLVA~I
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                IS,      Z:)YSt'0H  woo-Ag
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               25,300,000        90%
(2) Equipment,                 8,500,000        100% of foreign
furniture,                                 expenditures,
health kits,                               80% of local
vehicles                                   expenditures,
(except                                    (ex-factory
Part A(2)(c))                              cost) and 80%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(3) Vehicles                   2,800,000        100% of foreign
for field                                  expenditures,
staff under                                100% of local
Part A(2)(c)                               expenditures,
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local expen-
ditures for -other
items procured
locally
(4) Books and                  1,300,000        95%
training
materials
(5) Services and               7,300,000        80%
materials for
IEC and training


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Consultants ser-           4,700,000        95%
vices, grants
and fellowships
(7) Incremental                7,200,000        90% of expen-
staff salaries,                            ditures during
honoraria to                               the first three
volunteer workers                          fiscal years
and incremental                            commencing the
operations and                             fiscal year in
maintenance costs                          which the Credit
(including medicines                       becomes effec-
and materials)                             tive; 80% of such
expenditures during
the following two
fiscal years and
60% of such expen-
ditures thereafter
(8) Unallocated                5,600,000
TOTAL                    62,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "incremental salaries" means expenditures in
respect of salaries paid to staff appointed to posts established
under the Project on or after April 1, 1994;


﻿- 13 -
(d)   the term "incremental operations and maintenance costs"
means operating and maintenance costs, including in respect of
vehicles, incurred under the Project on or after April 1, 1994; and
(e)   the term "honoraria to volunteer workers" means payments
made to volunteers under Part B of the Project on or after July 1,
1994 to reimburse such volunteers for expenditures incurred by them.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 350,000
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures on or after
July 1, 1993.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the b&ais of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000,
services and incremental operating costs under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 and works under contracts not exceeding $200,000
equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to lower current levels
of fertility and maternal and childhood mortality in Assam,
Rajasthan and Karnataka by strengthening the family welfare programs
of these States including by promoting a broader mix of
contraceptive methods.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association from time to time:
Part A:     Strengthening Facilities for Delivery of Family
Welfare Services:
(1)   Extension and Upgrading of Infrastructure for Delivery of
Family Welfare Services in Under-served Areas:
Establishment of an adequate network of facilities for the
delivery of family welfare services in areas currently under-served
in the Project States, with sub-centers selected in accordance with
criteria agreed with the Association, consisting of:
(a)   in Assam, construction and equipping of about 800 sub-
centers, renovation of about 50 sub-centers; upgrading
about 90 PHCs; upgrading about 100 state dispensaries
into PHCs; upgrading about 40 CHCs or hospitals into
FRUs and renovation of about 40 facilities to be
upgraded to FRUs;
(b)   in under-served districts of Karnataka, construction and
equipping of about 1000 sub-centers and 100 PHCs;
construction of about 270 doctors' quarters at existing
PHCs; renovation of about 2200 existing sub-centers and
about 330 PHCs and about 50 CHCs; and upgrading about 70
CHCs into FRUs; and
(c)   in under-served districts of Rajasthan, upgrading about
860 sub-centers in partnership with NGOs; construction
and equipment of about 25 new PHCs; and upgrading about
210 CHCs into FRUs.


﻿- 15 -
(2)   Strengthening of Outreach and Community Linkages:
Improving access, outreach and program linkages of the family
welfare program of each Project State with communities by:
(a)   reaching under-served communities in each Project State
by establishing mobile clinics (using boats or vans)
where stationary facilities are unavailable, and
providing   transportation   facilities  for   staff,
including: (i) in Assam, establishing boat clinics and
mobile clinics for riverine islands and remote tribal
communities; and (ii) in Karnataka, establishing mobile
health teams to cover remote tribal communities and in
Rajasthan, establishing mobile clinics or rural health
camps in remote areas;
(b)   in each Project State, establishing a network of
community-based volunteers to assist ANMs in IEC and
motivation, liaise informally with communities and hold
stock of relevant medical supplies including: (i) in
Assam, establishing a system of volunteers (women health
promoters) providing one such volunteer for every 60
households; (ii) Karnataka, forming health advisory
committees at each sub-center, with both program and
community representatives, and such committees engaging
a community volunteer link worker each per village; and
(iii) in Rajasthan, expansion of existing community-
based systems for contraceptive supplies and the
establishment of link worker schemes; and
(c)   in each Project State, providing motorcycles, mopeds and
bicycles to family welfare field staff by establishing
a staff mobility fund to provide credit to such staff
for purchase of such vehicles.
Part B:     Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services:
Improving the quality of services in the areas of training,
medical supplies, logistics and the involvement of private voluntary
organizations (PVOs) so as to improve the acceptability, uptake and
impact of Family Welfare Services in the Project States including by
the establishment in each Project State of a State Institute for
Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW) to manage and coordinate training
programs and planning for the family welfare program, provide


﻿- 16 -
training f or family welfare training staff as well as carry out
operational research and evaluation, by:
(1)   Training:  Strengthening   of   family   welfare   training
institutions and programs by:
(a)   in Assam, establishing a State Institute for Health and
Family Welfare (SIHFW) by upgrading the Health and
Family Welfare Training Center in Guwahati, expanding
the capacity of existing Rural District Training
Centers, upgrading about 16 ANM training schools of the
State Government, establishing and training District and
Block training teams, as well as carrying out extensive
in-service training courses for family welfare;
Cb)   in Karnataka, establishing an SIHFW by constructing an
office building for SIHFW and providing to SIFHW the
existing training facility constructed by Karnataka
under the Third Population Project (Credit 1426-IN),
upgrading two existing Health and Family Welfare
Training Centers, establishing about 19 new District
Training Centers, upgrading about 7 ANM training schools
and one existing Lady Health Visitor Promotional
Training School of the State Government, establishing
and training District and Block training teams, as well
as carrying out extensive in-service training courses
for family welfare staff; and
(c)   in Rajasthan, establishing an SIHFW, establishing one,
and strengthening selected existing, Regional Health and
Family Welfare Training Centers, upgrading about 15 AM
training schools into District Training Centers, forming
and training Block Training Task Forces, as well as
carrying out extensive in-service training courses for
family welfare staff.
(2)   Improving Program Logistics: Improvement of family welfare
program logistics in Assam and Rajasthan regarding procurement,
transport and distribution of medical supplies by:
(a)   in  Assam, construction   of  storage  facilities  at
headquarters and district levels, provision of storage
and material-handling equipment for new stores,
provision of data processing equipment for computerized


﻿- 17 -
inventory control; and selected upgrading of transport
workshops for specialized functions; and
(b)   in Rajasthan, construction of storage facilities at the
headquarters and district level, provision of storage
and material-handling equipment, vehicles and incre-
mental salaries and training costs; upgrading of the
drug-testing laboratory, provision of data processing
equipment for inventory management and provision of
required technical assistance.
(3)   Drugs and Medical Supplies: Provision by all ProjecL States of
adequate drugs and medical supplies in an adequate quantity and in
a timely manner to sub-centers, PHCs and FRUs as required to
implement the family welfare program.
(4)   Involvement of NGOs/PVOs: Development and implementation in
each Project State of a detailed program to enhance the involvement
of PVOs in the family welfare programs with particular emphasis on
service delivery, IEC and innovative schemes.
Part C:     Strengthening Demand Generation Activities
Improving awareness, acceptance and uptake of family welfare
services in the Project States by strengthening selected State level
IEC institutions, training family welfare service providers and
conunity volunteers, developing and producing relevant IEC
materials and developing and implementing IEC activities targeted
towards designated target audiences using tailor-made messages.
Part D:     Strengthening Family Welfare Program Management:
Improving the management of the family welfare program by
developing management information systems (MIS) and planning
capabilities, developing and monitoring special service delivery
strategies for populations with special needs, training relevant
staff, provision of additional staff to further strengthen the
Project supervision capabilities of the Borrower's Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare and providing required technical
assistance including, in Assam, construction of a new office
building for the health and family welfare department.


﻿- 18 -
Part E:     Innovative Schemes and Preparation of Future
Investments:
(1)   Innovative Schemes:
Carrying out of selected innovative schemes for improving
service quality of the family welfare program as well as evaluating
their success and effectiveness.
(2)   Preparation of Future Investments:
Preparation of future investments in the family welfare sector
in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and
Tripura.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall carry out the National Action Plan.
2.    Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall review with the Association by December 31 of
each year expenditures incurred under the Project during that fiscal
year and by March 31 of each year, resources required for Project
implementation during the forthcoming fiscal year.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusivri7
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of thii
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower  shall   furnish  to  the  Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 21 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of-paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(i)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible


﻿- 22 -
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an ar-,unt not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Associatibn shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all oz any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


