Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI, USE ONLY
Report No. 8707
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-HO)
MAY 31, 1990
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 8ank authorization.



BANADBS    - National. Agricultural Development Bank
PCR         - Project Completion Report
PU          - Project Unit
UNDP        - United Nations Developmet Program



FOR GFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORtO BANK
Washnton. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Oie cd Ovcuw-aGr.t
Opr0w  Evahat.w
May 31, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on HONDURAS
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2284-HO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Honduras - Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
2284-HO)l prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.   No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
'
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDMUR
THMD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-HO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .        ..........................................................                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                  .................................................        ii
PART    I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE ....................                        1
1.  Project Identity ....................................                       3
2.  Background .......... ............................... .                     3
3.   Project Objectives and Description ............... ...                     4
4.  Project Preparation and Design ......................                       4
5.  Project Implementation .....            ....................                5
6.  Project Results .....................................                     13
7.  Bank's Performance ..................................                     15
8.  Project Relationship  ......             ..........................       16
PART  II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE ....                    ............    17
1.   Introduction ..9......................................                    9
2.   The Role of the World Bank  ...........         ..     .............     19
3.   The Role of the Executing Agencies  ..                ................   19
4.  Overall Impact of the Project .......................                     20
PART III.  SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA .                . ...........................       23
Table  1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits                    .......................    25
Table  2.   Project Timetable .......................................                       26
Table  3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements                     ...........   28
Table   4.  Direct Benefits  ...........                ..............................      30
Table   5.   Project Costs ...........................................                      31
Table   6.  Loan Portfolio by Year and Type of Activity .............                       33
Table   7.   Subloans Granted by Banks  ..............           ..     ...............     34
Table  8.   Balance of Portfolio and Arrears of
Participating Private Banks  .....             ......................       35
Table   9.   Project Financing                  .......................................     37
Table 10.   Internal Rate of Return ...............            ..      ................     38
Table 11.   Status of Covenants  ....... .............. *    ...............                39
Table 12.   Use of Staff Resources  ..................................                      41
Table 13.   Interest Rates for Agricultural Lines of Credit ........                 .      42
GRAPH  1.   Shares of Agricultural Exports ..................               ........         43
MAP   -  IBRD 16747R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-HO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Agricul-
tural Credit Project in Honduras, for which Loan 2284-HO in the amount of
US$45 was approved on May 19, 1983.  The loan was closed on December 31,
1987, on schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on
October 3, 1988.
The PCR was prepared jointly by Agricultural Operations Division
II of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evalua-
tion Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Borrower prepared and submitted a PCR in March 1989. On the basis
of that report and, inter alia, on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report,
the Legal Documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda, the Region prepared the PCR.
Part II is a summary of the Borrower's original PCR prepared by the Region;
the borrower has examined that summary (and the rest of the PCR) and has
certified that the summary is accurate and reflects the spirit of its draft
PCR.



- il .
PROJET C0ONILMTOE REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-E0)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.       This is the fifth agricultural credit project financed by the Bank
in Honduras and administered by a qualified Project Unit (PU) established
in the Central Bank of Honduras to carry out this type of operations. At
the tine of project appraisal, agriculture was, and still is, a key sector
In the economy. The world economic recession which existed at that time
resulted in stagnant demand and depressed prices for Honduras' main exports
and In international trading restrictions. These outcomes lead to
relatively weak grokth prospects for its major foreign exchange-earning
exports, particularly banana, coffee and sugar.
2.       The Government's main agricultural policy objectives as stated in
the President's Report of this Project, were to increase overall
agricultural production and, in particular, to further increase and
diversify agricultural exports. A second major government objective for
the sector was to achieve self-sufficiency in food production in the face
of rapidly expanding population growth and to improve the income earning
ability of the rural poor, especially that of small-scale farmers.  It was
expected that the resources to be provided under the project for increasing
farm investments would help to achieve such increases in agricultural
output and to improve income, consumption, production and employment levels
of the rural population.
Obiectives
3.       The main objectives of the project were to promote agricultural
exports.so as to improve the country's balance of payments, and to increase
rural production, incomes, consumption and employment. It included a line
of credit to finance on- and off-farm investments, incremental staff and
equipment for the PU, and training for staff of both the PU and the
financial intermediaries and for small-scale farmers.
Ium2n1e2ation E*perience
4.       Successive Bank-financed livestock and agricultural credit
operations in Honduras have enjoyed high priority since 1971 when the first
livestock project was undertaken.   Over time, the project concept has been
successfully promoted and has reached a growing number of potential
borrowers and financial intermediaries. The Third Agricultural Credit
project tried to incorporate new elements, bringing it closer to a general
credit line for agriculture than previous operations, which tended to
target more specific activities, i.e., livestock activities, specific
crops, areas, etc., and included some elements to encourage more commercial
bank lending to small-scale farmers.



- ili -
5.       During project implemntation, tbhre have been controversial
aspects arising from the project's reliance on the Honduran banking system
and from the d4iffulties of monitoring performance of participacing banks.
In fact three commercial banks accounting for about 33% of the project
funds are considered to have substantial financial difficulties with two of
the being under special scrutiny by the Bank Superintendency.
6.      ^Agenios in aonduras are not controlling the banking syr-em
effectively. The Bank Superintendency is carrying out thorough and
cempetent audits but it has not ben provided with adequate powers to
disclose and enforce its findings. The PU was able to implement an
efficient follow-up system for subloan repaymonts by an intermediary, but
it lacked quantifiable criteria and power to take effective measures
against nouperforuing intemediaries. Therefore, neither the Bank
Superintendency for overall compliance with regulatory norms nor the PU for
compliance wl.th conditions related to Loan 2284-HO, has been able to
achieve improvemnts in the inred eiarl  financial performance.
7.       Other problems of implementation were an excessive bias towards
livestock investments, partly due to tradition as the program was initiated
with two consecutive livestock projects (1970-80), and partly to the fact
that there is a natural tendency for intermediaries and PU to finance the
same type of investments over time. PU should review its promotional
policies which still place heavy emphasis on this subsector.
S.       Another issue during implementation was the prQject's relative
failure to incorporate a larger number of small-scale farmers than
estimated at appraisal. Its predecessor, the Second Agricultural Credit
Project was the first to explicitly include a special loan category to
facilitate the monitoring of loans to this type of beneficiaries and
allowed higher rediscounting percentages to banks for small-scale farmer
loans. In spite of the fact that rediscounting margining was further
increased under the Third Agricultural Credit Project, banks have shied
away from small-scale farmers as the costs and risks of lending to this
sector are not commensurate with permitted lending rates under the Project.
In fact the way in which rediscount and on-lending rates were determined
under the Third Agricultural Credit Project proved to be insensitive to
internal market conditions.  Situations arose during project implementation
where rates on project funds were above, but more often than not
substantially below, going commercial ra.es.
Results
9.       In retrospect, one could state that there was not sufficient
concordance between project objectives and design. The Third Agricultural
Credit Project is essentially a financial sector operation while its main
objectives, i.e., to increase sectoral output, exports, and employment, are
sectoral variables subject to sector and macroeconomic constraints which
were totally outside the scope of the project.
10.      While the project had significant impact in increased agricultural
output and income of directly benefitted farmers, it is not evident that
the project had significant impact in increased overall agricultural output
and exports. The effects of increased credit was possibly offset by



- iv -
advOJe variatiovs tu other variables such an term  of trade and on an
export trade regime that discriminates against exports. Moreover, efforts
to diversify project portfolios over time were weak to have a major impact
in diversifying Honduras' agricultural exports. In fact, the composition
of agricultural exports in 1987 was substantially the same as the one
existing in 1982 (Part III, Graph 1).
11.      The main accomplishment of the Third Agricultural Credit Project
is to have promitted an insider view into the workings of the financial
system in Honduras. The monitoring and auditing requirements accompanying
this and previous Sank-financed agricultural credit projects have induced
the Bank Superintnd4ency and the Central BSnk to pay more attention to
control systems and to the analysis of bank performence than heretofore.
Successive agricultural credit operations have in fact come accompanied by
technical assistance components directed at improving commercial banks
ability to assess and monitor agricultural projects, and its impact has
been quite positive. This Project also included a technical assistance
component for the BSank Superintendency, which has improved the ability of
its staff to monitor the banking system. In addition, in the case of
BANADESA, the technical assistance component under the Project has been
more ambitious and has sought to redress longer-term problems of defective
loan portfolio administration practices and collections.
Sustainnbilt1
12.      The project is supported by a local Project Unit (PU) which has
been in operation for over 18 years and has enjoyed relative stability. It
is staffed with well-qualified professionals and has enjoyed insulation
from political interference. The PU has been quite successful in promoting
the credit line amongst commercial banks and potential beneficiaries, and
in providing technical advice to sub-borrowers to carry out the financed
investments efficiently. It has been less effective in enforcing financial
controls on participating intermediaries. The PU was able to implement an
efficient follow up system for subloan repayments by an intermediary, but
the project did not provide PU with criteria and power to take effective
measures against nonperforming intermediaries. Quantifiable criteria could
have been based on the information submitted by the intermediaries to the
Bank Superintendency or on that contained in the audit reports which
provide a thorough assessment of the situation of each intermediary vis-a-
vis the project, as well as its overall performance.
13.      If provided with enforceable criteria and the power to take
effective measures against nonperforming intermediaries, the PU could serve
as the specialized agricultural credit unit within the Central Bank for all
agricultural credit lines financed by this institution and not to be
confined only to Bank-financed credit operations. In fact, starting in
November 1988, and as part of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project, the
PU was provided with a set of enforceable criteria and power to sanction
nonperfo:ming intermediaries.  The Government started also to implement a
plan to consolidate all agricultural credit lines under this unit as a
first step to rationalizing the rural financial sector in Honduras. The PU
will need to be trained in financial matters, and, in particular, in
banking analysis.



Ffndinsl and Lesson
(a) By utilizing the financLal system, the project became an
instrument for testing the efficiency and needs of the financial
Intermediaries involved. It became apparent that the manner in
which credit lines are structured and priced is as important in
the final balance as the availability of credit. Moreover, it was
also apparent that ahievement of stated objectives depends
heavily on the financial viability and managerial efficiency of
the Institutions on which the project depends for on-lending
projoet fuds. Therefore, it was recognized that any new credit
operation had to Include an assesmant of th  overall viability of
the intermediaries to be involved and to set minimum enforceable
standards to participate in the project.
(b) The project provided a unique opportunity for understanding the
manner in which the risks of lending to small-scale farmers are
perceLved by formal lenders. Commercial banks in Honduras would
aot lend to small farmers even with the incentives provided under
the Third Agricultural Credit Project. Undertaking the study to
facilitate agricultural lending on chattel mortgages, as proposed
at the time of project preparation and appraisal, could have
provided new possibilities for increased lendlng to this type of
beneficiaries. This study is being carried out under the Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project. Also, due to lack of interest of
commercial banks, it has become urgent to explore and analyze
innovative forms of channeling more credit to small-scale farmers
such as credit unions and other types of nongovernment
organizations.
(c) In the case of BANADESA, association with the Bank through the
project was the means for establishing a long-term working program
for institutional strengthening, and it provided BANADESA with
support vis-a-vis the Government in its quest for a higher degree
of autonomy.
(d) Duriug appraisal of the Third Agricultural Credit Project, the
Bank requested the Government to parcel out the areas that would
be serviced by its lines and by other donors. In particular
this request was addressed to credit allocations for small-scale
farmers in an effort to eliminate lower cost competition for Loan
2284-HO. Targeting credit operations to specific types of
beneficiaries, at different rediscount and on-lending rates, has
contributed to accentuating the existing rural financial market
imperfections and segmentation in Honduras. The need for
rationalizing the rural financial system is now fully recognized.
To that end, in 1988, the Government began to readjust rediscount
and on-lending rates on all agricultural credit lines so as to
unify them and bring them closer to the marginal cost of funds to
financial intermediaries and market on-lending rates respectively.
(e) Pricing of Bank funds for financial Intermediaries and final users
linked to the cost of Bank funds to the Honduran Government proved
to be insensitlve to local market conditions. Situations arose



- Vi -
4iu  project lpl       a    where rates on the project were
above. but more often substantially below. going doestic rates.
Therefore, it is recognized that rates to financial intermediaries
nd final user should be set in accordance with the marginal cost
of funds to financial intermediaries and market onlending rates
respectively.



PROJECT COiMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
THfID AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-HO)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PESRPECTIVE



- 3-
PART  . PROJECT REVIEWR FR   BANK PESPECTIVE
1.  tJC   fI!
Proj ct Naem:       Third Agricultural Credit Project
Loan No.            2284-HO
RVP Unit:           lA42A
Comtry:             Honduras
Sector:             Agriculture
Subsector:          Agricultural Credit
2. BACKGROUND
1.2.1    Sector DevelgMnt Obleoties:  At t2e time of apiraisal, world
economic recession resulted In stagnant demand and depressed prices for
Honduras" main exports, and in international trading restrictions. These
outcomes lead to relatively weak growth prospects for its major foreign
exchange-earning exports, particularly banana, coffee and sugar.
Consequently, the Government's main agricultural policy objectives, as
stated in the President's Report of the Project, were to increase overall
agricultural production and to further increase and diversify agricultural
exports. A second major Government objective for the agricultural sector
was to achieve self-sufficiency in food production in the face of rapidly
expanding population growth and to improve the income earning ability of
the rural poor, especially that of small-scale farmers.
1.2.2    Policy Context:  Increased access to domestic credit for private
investors was expected to help to achieve the above-mentioned production
and export objectives. Special features to entice commercial bank lending
to small-scale farmers was expected to improve the income earning ability
vf this type of beneficiaries.
1.2.3    Linkaees between nroiect. sector. and macronolicv objectives:  The
Third Agricultural Credit Project was implemented immediately after a major
setback of economic and per capita growth in Honduras. Between 1980 and
1983, unemployment reached 20% of the labor force and per capita incomes
fell by 10%. Weak public finances during 1980-1982 brought about a larger
than usual increase in the use of domestic credit by the public sector and
a tightening of credit to the private sector. Investment as a percentage
of GDP declined from 26% in 1980 to 15% in 1983 as a consequence of a 50%
drop in private investment. In 1983, as part of a stand-by agreement with
the IMF, the Government took significant revenue measures that were
expected to loosen credit to the private sector. The project, by providing
long-term financing together with technical advice to agricultural private
sector investors, was expected to contribute to the sectoral objectives, in
particular to increase agricultural production and expand exports.



- 4 -
3. PRQJECT OBJECTIVES ND DESCRIPTION
1.3.1    Project  Objectives: The project's objectives were to (a) promote
agricultural exports; (b) Improve the income, consumption and production
levels in rural areas; (c) increase exployment; (d) improve subloan
collection by BANADESA; (e) upgrade the coumercial banks' agricultural loan
officers' project appraisal techniques; (f) improve small farmers'
managerial and bookkeeping capacity; and (g) reduce paper work for subloan
approval.
1.3.2    Project Components: Main project components were (a) a line of
short- and medium-term credit to channel funds to farmers for rural
investments through commercial banks and BANADESA (93.8% of Loan proceeds),
(b) incremental PU administration costs, and (c) training for PU staff,
financial intermediaries staff and small-scale farmers.
4.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND DESIGN
A. Identification. Prepsration and Appraisal
1.4.1    The conceptual foundation of the project was sound for its time.
The Government assigned high priority to this type of project as they
provided medium- and long-term financing to increase agricultural
investment and hence agricultural production and exports. Loan 2284-Ho was
similar to the four previous Bank-financed agricultural credit operations
(two livestock projects and two agricultural credit projects).  Project
identification consisted of expressions of interest on the part of the
Honduran authorities in late 1981 in renewing the then on-going Second
Agricultural Credit Project which became effective in September 1980.  The
on-going project highlighted the need to restructure BANADESA's loan
portfolio administration capabilities and find new formulas to involve
commercial banks in lending to small-scale farmers.
1.4.2 * There were two short missions in the spring of 1982 staffed with
one person to finalize detaLls of the Government's request. Most of the
discussions with the Government at the time centered around: (a) new audit
procedures to be used by the Bank Superintendency in monitoring the
finanuial intermediarier, (b) the dismal results of BANADESA in 1981 and
the eligibility of this institution to participate in the new loan, and
(c) alternatives to entice commercial banks to lend to small-scale farmers.
Among the alternatives considered at that stage were the creation of a
guarantee fund and the preparation of a study and the enactment of a
chattel mortgage law. The project was prepared in July 1982 by the Central
Ba.ak of Honduras, assisted by the UNDP Regional Unit for Technical
Assistance.
1.4.3    Appraisal by the Bank took place in September and October of that
same year. To avoid competition of available lower cost funds with the
Third Agricultural Credit Project, the Bank requested the Government to
parcel out the areas that were to be serviced by this line and those of



-5-
other donors. Also, Inclusion of BANADLSA was then recommended in spite of
Its poor performance, as it was recognized to be the only agency lending to
small-scale farmers. The appraisal mission, however, requested the
creation of a special unit within BANADESA to handle Bank funds. The only
item included in the new operation to entice commercial banks to increase
lending to small-scale farmers was an increase in rediscount margining for
this type of sub  ,ns.
B.  Lgan   =iltk  . Negotiations and Board A&roval
1.4.4    The only substantial changes after appraisal and during the Loan
Coimittee were a tightening of conditionality regarding the performance of
BANADESA. Performance targets were established for (i) loan recovery rates
on the Bank-financed section of the portfolio, (ii) submission of a loan
recovery plan for its overall portfolio, and (iii) execution of this
recovery plan. Failure to comply with such targets would signify
suspension of disbursements to BANADESA.
1.4.5    Negotiations took place in Washington in April 1983 and the
project was approved by the Board on May 19, 1983. During negotiations, it
was agreed that submission of BANADESA's recovery plan would be a condition
of loan effectiveness and that special requirements to be included in
BANADESA's Project Administration Contract were to be included in a
supplementary letter to the Loan Agreement. The loan documents were signed
on SeptemLer 29 of that same year, over four months after Board approval,
due to delays in congressional approval of the Project's legal documents.
Total project costs were estimated at US$74.1 million with the Bank
financing US$45.0 million.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.5.1    Loan 2284-HO became effective in January 1984, four months after
the legal documents were signed and only one month after it was originally
scheduled. Project was implemented very close to appraisal estimates,
although disbursements did lag about one year behind schedule: Actual
project costs were about 11% higher (US$82.1 million) than estimates at
appraisal, mainly due to a reallocation of funds from small- to large-scale
farmers for US$7.3 million (Part III, Tables 3 and 4).
A. Implementation of Project Comnonents
1.5.2    Agricultural Credit Components:  Livestock activities and large
and medium producers were the major beneficiaries of the Third Agricultural
Credit Project (Part III, Tables 5 and 6). A total of 3,200 subloans were
granted to 6,074 beneficiaries. About 60% of project funds went to finance
livestock projects. Loan commitments for small-scale farmers lagged behind
original estimates from early stages of project implementation, and an
amendment had to be made in December 1986 to reallocate funds from the
categories of small-scale to those of large-scale farmers. The actual
value of subloans to medium and large producers exceeded original



-6-
prdaetiors by 63%, duh to Miaher credit demand by this typ of
b.noficiarles and to the existence of alternative lines of credit for
small-scale farmers financed by other donors at lower interest rates than
those stipulated under the Third Agricultural Credit Project.
Table 1!  Project Subloans by Tve of, Benef4icia
No. of        Value           No. of
Type of beneficiary     subloans       (L '000)    beneficiaries
Small-scale farmers       1,615         36,835.9       4,622
Other Producers            1.585       123.010.8 1X452
Total                3,200        159,846.7       6,074
1.5.3    The method used for setting interest rates for final beneficiaries
under the project proved impractical and produced a cost of credit on this
line that in some periods bore no relation to local market conditions.
Rediscount and on-lending rates to final borrowers under the Third
Agrieultural Credit Project were linked to the cost of Bank funds to the
Honduran Government with no direct link to internal market conditions.
Situations arose during project implementation where rates were either too
high, but most often too low, compared with the going commercial lending
rate (Part III, Table 13).
1.5.4    Train  comugWnt: The project allocated US$700,000 for training
of Central Bank staff in a number of areas including management, computer,
auditing, crop and animal husbandry, etc. It also included training for
commereial bank staff in the appraisal of agricultural related projects and
training for small farmers. Implementation of this component in particular
the one for small-scale beneficiaries lagged substantially behind appraisal
estimates and two modifications in the Loan Agreement were necessary to
reallocate funds from this component to those on credit (Part III, Tables 3
and 4).
1.5.5    A training coordinator was hired by the PU to upgrade the training
activities of both the PU and the other entities associated with the
project, ministries, banks, etc. In retrospect, it is not very clear that
thls position was justified, as this activity could have been performed by
the deputy manager of the PU. The technical advice provided by PU to sub-
borrowers on an intensive individual basis through contract with the
?inistry of Natural Resources and other research and extension agencies,
although effective, became too expensive and limited for too small a number
of farmers. Intents were made to reformulate this training program from
direct individual sessions to group demonstrations to farmers but the bulk
of the training was provided on an individual basis and oriented mainly to
larger cattle ranchers. Also, two professionals from the Bank
Superintendency benefited from this component. Results were seemingly
satisfactory.



-7..
B. PUs P.rforannea
1.5.6    PU's staff is considered to be professionally competent and
stable. Staffing has beeo insulated from political influences and there is
little rotation of personnel. There are 80 staff members at the PU, of
which some 30 have professional degrees. However, only five of them have
training tn finance. In adoition, there are another 65 staff members who
work with participating banking institutions; they are engaged in
agricultural leoding financed under the Project and by the commercial
banks' own resources. A special unit at BNADESA was created under the
Project to be in charge only of the funds rediscounted on account of the
Project.
1.5.7    PU has been successful at establishing and following procedures
demanded by the Loan and Project Agreements. However, as PU staff is less
familiar with comercial sspects of credit, it was less successful in
implementing the financial aspects contained in Loan 2284-HO; in
particular, it was unable to resolve or improve the arrears situation of
participating intermediaries. In addition, some intermediaries feel that
PU staff is not quite flexible in such aspects as frequency of repayment,
minimu size of subloan, monitoring requirements and approval procedures.
1.5.8    The project did not provide PU with a solid set of criteria to
evaluate the performance of participating intermediaries. Therefore, given
its deficiency of commercial banking knowledge, PU was often more concerned
with collecting information on arrears than with analyzing it so as to
facilitate subsequent efforts to collect late loans. Persistently high
arrears have been a concern over the life of this project (see
para 1.5.19). These shortcomings indicated the need to review and revise
the job descriptions of PU personnel and the responsibilities of PU itself.
The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project accordingly includes more
restrictive rules for qualifying intermediaries based on both leverage and
arrears records. Punitive actions for intermediaries not complying with
loan covenants are to be enforced by PU with assistance from the Executive
Committee (see para 1.5.12).
1.5.9    PU appears to allocate substantial resources to the promotional
aspects of the project. Thus its staff has been heavily involved in the
preparation of manuals, calendars and other publications which both promote
use of the credit line and provide didactic instructions to beneficiaries.
There are several aspects here that deserve review.
1.5.10   First, the level of resources allocated to these activities seems
rather large if the time spent by high level PU staff is imputed. In
contrast with the initial years, most farmers in Honduras (particularly
larger farmers as are most of PU's beneficiaries) know of the PU credit
lines, and, therefore, promotion should be heavily concentrated on
commercial banks and other intermediaries on the latest adjustments to
lending terms on conditions. Second, PU's marketing effort tends to be too
concentrated in livestock investments. This could explain why a large
proportion of subloans continue to be destined to livestock activities. PU
should prepare a plan each year showing goals in terms of activities to be
promoted, profiles of customers to be targeted, intermediation channels to
be used, and loan funds to be placed. Supporting activities such as
marketing and promotion should be tailored to achieve this annual plan.



-8.-
C. Cgordinating Mechanisms
1.5.11   PU has a unique situation vis-a-vis other institutions related to
the project. It is subject to general policy guidelines and needs
occasional assistance from other government entities such as the M4inistry
of Natural Resources, the Central Bank, the Bank Superintendency, etc. At
the same time, PU needs to preserve its autonomy in credit operations. A
balance has been maintained so far by the general manager of PU who has a
reputation for integrity and professional capability, but there is a
perceived need to institutionalize coordinating mechanisms by means of an
executive coinittee. Such a committee has been a feature in the Third
Agricultural Credit Project and in previous operations but not much has
been achieved. The Third Agricultural Credit Project reduced the number of
members in the Committee, but even with these simplifications, it failed to
play any relevant role. Because the Committee was given no specific
function at appraisal or thereafter by the Project Director, either
representation of executing agencies was vested in individuals of
relatively low rank or the meetings were not attended at all.
1.5.12   With more power being provided to PU to take specific actions
against nonperforming intermediaries, the Executive Committee is in a good
position to support PU's enacting suspension measures and other important
aspects of loan monitoring and collection.
D. The Bankin System
1.5.13   The Bank has utilized PU and the rediscounting mechanism since
1971 to channel funds into the Honduran agricultural sector. Initially, in
the first operation only seven banks participated. In Loan 2284-Ho some 12
private banks plus BANADESA were active in the transfer of project funds.
BANADESA has been the main channel for lending to smaller-scale farmers,
while commercial banks tended to operate with larger-scale clients.
BANADESA plays an important role in reaching this segment of the farmer
population and, in spite of its operational problems, efforts have been
made to keep it in the program. A total of 6,137 individual projects have
been financed since 1971, of which 3,200 correspond to the Third
Agricultural Credit Project Loan 2284-HO. The table below illustrates the
growing number of projects financed in this manner.



-~~9
Table 2.     iculurl Credit Proeram
First      Second     First       Second        Third
Livestock  Livestock   Agricul.    Agricul.    Agricul.
Program    Program    Program      Program      Program
Period               1971-73    1973-79    1977-83      1980-85      1984-88
Number                   79        310         535       1,602        3,200
Value (L million)       6.6       19.5        37.2        76.5        159.8
1.5.14   Commercia BankPric2inatmi :  The credit lines financed through
the PU represent the major source of long-term funds to agriculture in the
country, and for some banks it represents the only portion of the portfolio
in agriculture.  However, the relative importance of PU's portfolio on the
whole banking system has been declining since 1982 with only one bank as an
exception. On average, loans rediscounted through PU represented about 6%
of total loans of each bank in 1988, down from 8% in 1982. For some banks,
however, the percentage is as high as 15% (Part III, Table 8). It is a
matter of concern that major users of project funds present systematically
poorer recovery rates. In 1988, the two banks with a PU-financed slhare of
their portfolio of over 10% have recovery rates of about 11 points below
the average for the banking system as a whole (58% compared to 69%).
1.5.15   The table below illustrates the relative importance of
participating intermediaries in Loan 2284-HO.
Table 3: Relative Imnortance of Participating Intermediarieg
-Aloans               & =Aount        Avera&2 amount
Banco                No.       %            L '000      %         L '000
ATLANTICA               48     2.0           3,743.4     2         77.9
OCCIDENTE              262     8.0         12,556.8      8         47.9
AHORRO                  36     1.0           3,188.9     2         88.6
BANCAHSA                81     3.0          8,218.7      5        101.5
BANADESA            2,143    67.0          61,704.2    39          28.8
SOGERIN                162     5.0         20,241.8    13         124.9
COMERCIO                25     0.5          2,153.5      1         86.1
CONTINENTAL            169     5.0         18,504.9    12         109.5
MERCANTIL               69     2.0         10,484.0      7        151.9
FICENSA                 25     0.5          2,616.8      2        104.7
BANHCAFE                35     1.0          2,080.9      1         59.5
BANFFAA                 50     2.0          5,455.5      3        109.1
TRABAJADORES            95     3.0          8.887.3      6         93.6
Total          3,200   100.0         159,836.7   101



- 10 -
1.5.16   There have been some important developments in the banking sector.
The most significant perhaps is the agreement under the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project to go towards a unification of interest rates (the Central
Bank administers a number of credit lines for rediscount. each with
different conditions and pricing terms). Another interesting development
is the imcreas. in the financing of governoent by the commercial banks,
both In direct loans and as investments in government securities accepted
an part of reserve requirements. Reserve requirements in Honduras are
quite high at 34% of the deposits, but the funding of commercial banks by
the Central Bank via the rediscount mechanism is also very substantial.
1.5.17  lsses of Perf2Lbne  Control:  At present, it becomes difficult
to monitor the performance of the banking system in Honduras due to
deficiencies in the banking regulatory and legal norms, in reporting and
analysis systems, and to the lack of disclosure and homogeneity in the
classification of information supplied by the banks. Financial indicators
prepared on the basis of financial accounting data are usually too late to
be an effective screening procedure. This is particularly important and
partially explains PMs inability to have had better control of loan
management practices of participating intermediaries. Compliance with
auditing and reporting requirements was generally good, but some violations
of normal financial practices were reported. There have been improvements
in compliance with the auditing and reporting requirements spelled in the
various agreements. Repeated violations such as those shown in Part III,
Table 7, evidence (a) lack of effective authority over banks on the part of
the Bank Superintendency, (b) lack of resolve on the part of PU in exerting
its powers over the banks,1 and (c) the difficulties in monitoring the use
of funds. Some improvement can be observed in terms of a smaller number of
violations by banks between 1985 and 1987.
1.5.18   Through its participation in various bank sponsored operations,
the Bank Superintendency has been receiving technical assistance to upgrade
its personnel and systems. In addition, a number of specialists in bank
analysis are expecte.& to arrive shortly in Honduras to provide the Central
Bank, and in particular the Bank Superintendency, with technical assistance
on bank analysis, auditing, and follow up controls.
1.5.19   Arrears:  Arrears have been as persistent a problem on the Third
Agricultural Credit Project as it was on previous credit projects.
Available information on the quality of overall loan portfolios of banks in
Honduras indicates a significant deterioration since 1980. The share of
loans on time has gone down from 89% in 1982 to 77% in 1987. Given the
high level of lending to related parties by banks, as reported ih many of
the banks' audit reports, these figures could underestimate the arrears
problem since many loans "on time" could be refinanced subloans.
Furthermore, reserves for loan losses are reportedly low and in two of the
largest participating banks, underprovisioning could be masking a situation
of potential insolvency. PU's portfolio reflects some of the problems
affecting the overall commercial bank loan portfolio.
I/ Under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project, PU is given unambiguous
instructions about actions to take in the event of noncompliance by the
intermediaries.



- 11 -
Table 4, State of Arrears of Partciltating Intermediaries
PU: Loan 2284-HO
inem e  erO Ital*               WTogking capital*
Total     %                   Total    %
Bank.               Bal nce       Dora    rec.      Balance      mora   rec.
AZLARTIDA            3,150.1       201.5   63       1,176.7       80.7   84
OCCIDS T             8,350.5       702.3   49       2,720.8   1,309.2   59
AHOlRO               2,063.4       260.7   60         264.9       67.4   84
BANCAHSA             5,151.3       195.8   73         612.4      194.0   66
BAJADESA            48,057.1    7,049.8   42       10,307.8   4,243.9   55
SOGU m              15,028.3    1,205.9   54        2,958.6      393.2   83
COx mCI0             1,279.8        89.7   62          24.0        3.1   90
5CWITXNUTAL         12,546.7       615.8   71       2,037.5   1,162.0   60
MC&NTIL              8,083.9       541.6   61         818.4       79.7   90
TICENSA              2.114.8       142.5   74         310.4       72.4   82
BANHCAPE               904.1        26.2   83         100.0        5.5    8
BANFFM               4,164.1       300.8   67         913.8      313.2   74
TBABAJADORES         6,631.9       262.9   75       2,566.0      198.3   91
Total            117,526.0   11,595.5    -       24.811.3   8,122.6    -
Source:  Superint. Auditing/BCH as of 12/31/87;   * Capital + Interests.
BANADESA
1.5.20   As in previous credit projects, BANADESA intermediated the largest
amount of ftnds under the Third Agricultural Credit Project. As of
December 1988, BANADESA had utilized 40% of the funds and placed about 67%
of the number of subloans attributed to the project (see Table 3 above).
1.5.21   The participation of BANADESA in agricultural credit projects has
been important in reaching smaller-scale farmers, but the Bank and the PU
have continuously expressed concern over its ability to manage project
funds. Therefore, and because of its less than satisfactory financial
performance, the Third Agricultural Credit Project included conditions
related to the management of BANADESA's loan portfolio for its
participation in the project. The project contemplated the adoption of a
loan recovery plan, a new system for measuring arrears, the creation of a
special unit to oversee progress on arrears reduction on the portion of the
portfolio financed by PU, and a major review of its organizational and
financial situation. BANADESA has been afflicted with managerial and
financial problems since it began operations in 1980. The most significant
are lack of autonomy, overextension of functions, and unrealistic and
conflicting objectives, all of which cont-ibute to persistently high levels
of arrears. While it still experiences operational difficulties, it has
made substantial improvements in crucial areas of loan portfolio
management. The effects of such adjustments, however, would not
materialize in improved financial results for some time.



- 12 -
1.5.22   Devlouments: In 1985/86, after several years of implementation
failure of several piecemeal plans, including the Recovery Plan presented
to the Bank as a condition of Loan Effectiveness, BANADESA embarked in a
major restructuring exercise. Several actions were identified:
(a) improvement in lendAing and recoveries, (b) divestiture of BANADESA's
nonfinancial intermediaries, (c) better savins mobilization effort, and
(d) lovering of transaction costs and better design of its reporting
systems for management. The main benefits of these actions have been
(a) to gain an understanding of the main causes for arrears and the means
to reducing them, (b) to provide middle and higher management with
intensive on the job training in the areas of loan administration, and
(c) to place BSADESA in a position to negotiate for more autonomy and
ndependence in respect to the government.
1.5.23   Retrueturing of the Lgan Portfolio:  BANADESA is putting new
methods in place to control the quality of its lending. Most of 1987 was
spent in the preparation of a strategy for identifying the problems and
training line personnel in the implementation of a loan recovery plan.
During 1988, the plan was adopted in 15 of the 32 agencies, recovery
targets were agreed upon for each area with new coordinating mechanisms
including active participation from top management. Much of this effort
was accelerated with the negotiations of the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project.
1.5.24 As a result of BANADESA's own efforts, the role of the PU unit at
BANADESA's headquarters has become unclear and perhaps redundant. This
unit is not well integrated with BANADESA's overall loan collection
exercise. On the contrary, its existence has contributed to complicate the
process of reassignment of loan portfolio responsibilities, since different
accounting systems, follow up, and separate personnel is required for
subloans financed under the Loan 2284-HO.
1.5.25   Effects on Banadesa's Lendini Activities:  Over the past three
years, BANADESA retrenched its operations, partly out of lack of liquidity
and partly as a result of emphasizing the collection of outstanding
obligations rather than new lending. Between 1984 and 1988, annual growth
rates for loans went from 38% to less than 1%. At the same time, BANADESA
carried out a thorough examination of its loan portfolio and was able to
establish a more focused collection strategy. Loans in arrears were
classified in accordance with a series of criteria suggested by line staff,
and responsibilities for the administration of each subcategory was
distributed accordingly.
1.5.26   BANADESA's financial situation continues to be precarious due to
narrowing financial margins axd the low quality of its earning assets.
However, BANADESA now has more accurate information on the value of its
loan portfolio and is planning its activities more efficiently. The manner
in which loan loss provisioning is calculated was carefully reviewed and
agreed upon once a full assessment of the arrears situation was completed.
For these efforts to culminate in permanent results, they would need to be
supplemented with reforms in the legal norms governing BANADESA and a
series of actions being pursued as part of a possible Agricultural Sector
Operation.



- 13 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
1.6.1    In retrospet, one could state that there was not sufficient
cocordance between project objectives and desip.  The Third Agricultural
Credit Project is essentially a financial sector operation while its main
objectives, i.e., to increase sectoral output, eports, and employment, are
sectoral variables subject to sector and macroeconomic constraints which
were totally outside the scope of the project.
1.6.2    The main accomplishment of the Third Agricultural Credit Project
is to have permitted an inside view into the vorkings of the financial
system In Honduras. The monitoring and auditing requirements accompanying
this and previous Bank-financed agricultural credit projects have induced
the Bank Superintendency and the Central Bank to pay more attention to
control systems and the analysis of bank performance than heretofore.
Successive agricultural credit operations, in fact, have come accompanied
by technical assistance components directed at improving commercial banks'
ability to assess and monitor agricultural projects, and its impact has
been quite positive. This Project also included a technical assistance
component for the lank Superintendency which has improved the ability of
its staff to monitor the banking system. In addition, in the case of
BANADESA, the technical assistance component under the project has been
more ambitious and has sought to redress longer-term problems of defective
loan portfolio adm',nistration practices and collections. In particular,
the project had a clearer impact on strengthening BANADESA's portfolio
management and on promoting the adoption of better audit and accounting
systems. BANADESA's interest in carrying out reforms on its loan
administration systems has been consistently supported by the Bank during
the implementation of this Loan and now with the Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project.
1.6.3    Project design reflected much higher expectations about the
ability of comercial banks and BANADESA to reach small-scale farmers than
was justified by previous experience. The project included US$17.6 million
or about 40% of loan proceeds for small-scale farmer lending. Insufficient
interest of commercial banks in lending to high-cost, high-risk,
noncorporate borrowers, was part of the reason for not being able to
achieve appraisal targets for small-scale farmer lending. But this was
also partly due to the proliferation of lower interest credit lines
financed by other donors at the time the Project was being implemented.
Therefore, US$7.3 million had to be reassigned to service larger-scale
farmers (Part III, Table 5).
1.6.4    The project has contributed to increased output and incomes of
directly benefited farmers. However, it is recognized that it is extremely
difficult to carry out an evaluation that could demonstrate an unequivocal
link between increased credit to increased output. Therefore, it is
difficult to evaluate the impact of this project on overall production and
exports. The project represented a significant amount of new funds to
agriculture (project funds represented, on average, 30% to 35% of new
lending to the sector from banking sources during implementation years),
but the effect of increased credit might have been offset by adverse
vatlations in other variables such as deteriorating terms of trade for



_ 14 -
agriculture, deteriorating price tmme for major expports, and a trad.
regime that  cr     e      aist epors.
1.6.5   The exception being the dearth of long-term finance in Honduras,
which La an obstacle for Increased investmet and hence agricultural
production and export growth. Therefore, a major contribution of this
project was to provide long-term funds for investment finance which might
have provented stronger shortags of term-financing and, hence, dbelines in
agricuLtural private invostmnts and growth. The eistence of this
administrative intervention is justified to the extent that long-term
markets would be slow to develop and their absence is a serious constraint
to sectoral growth.
1.6.6    The table below presents a sumasry of the various degrees of
accomplishment of these obkectives.



- 15 -
Degree of
(a) Promote          Unclar            Deteriorating terms of trade for
agricultural                       agriculture and existence of trade
eports                            regims that discriminate against
exports.
(b) Improve          Good for          It is extremly difficult to carry
icom      _      direct            out en evaluation that could
consumption      beneficiaries    domonstrate unequivocal link between
& production                       increased credit to increased output.
(c) Increase         Poor              Many investments were capital
mlayment                           intensive and financed mainly
livestock investments.
(d) Improve          Satisfactory      Constraints for further improvements
collection                         are of a political nature.
by BANADESA
(e) Upgrade PU and   Satisfactory      Further training for PU staff is
banksk' project                    required in financial and
appraisal                         banking matters.
techniques
(f) Improve small-   Poor              Banks not very interested in
scale farmer                       financing small-scale farmers.
managerial                         Project did not explore alternative
capacity                          vehicles to reach small-scale
farmers.
(g) Less paper-      Good             Further simplification and
work loan                          decentralization of PU operations
approval                           is still needed.
7. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
1.7.1    The Bank's overall performance was good.  The main strengths were
a good technical knowledge of the agricultural sector, and support to
Government during project preparation and supervision. Weaknesses
concerned (a) insufficient knowledge of the rural financial market, and
hence insufficient emphasis on financial aspects of intermediaries, and (b)
over optimistic assessment of the capability and willingness of the
commercial banking system to lend to small-scale farmers.
1.7.2    The Bank responded promptly to Govertment's request to start
project preparation. Project preparation proceeded quickly, encountering
few problems as this was to be the fifth operation of this kind in



_ 16 -
HondUras. Ilosuo at that stage fousoed aSanly on the dismal result of
BANADESA and its eligibility to participate in the proposed loan, and in
alternatives to entice commercial banks to lend to small-scale farmers.
During appraisal, and to prevent competition of available lower-cost funds
with the proposed project funds, the Bank requested the Government to
parcel out the areas that were to be serviced by the Bank and by other
donors. It vould have been more efficient to request the Government to
rationalize its rural financial system as part of this operatioa.
1.7.3    Supervision activlties carried out by the Bank were quite
meticulous throughout the project implementation. Different missions
visited all PU regional offices and a substantial number of final
borrowers. The Bank acted in a supportive and flexible manner in
responding to Government's request for reallocation of the proceeds of the
Loan. Supervision missions were well staffed to adequately assess the
ability of PU to provide technical assistance to farmers and in general
have focused on understanding the nature of investments funded by the
project. A new method to monitor arrears was introduced at the beginning
of the project cycle. Thereafter, it seems that supervisions overlooked
financial and institutional aspects, in particular, the need to review the
financial viability of participating internediaries, which, in a somewhat
loose way, was a condition of project fund disbursements. Although
supervision staff weeks during FY86 and FY87 were unusually high, very
little time was spent in the field. A total of 71 staff weeks were
assigned to the supervision of this project (Part III, Table 12).
1.7.4    A more strict review of the financial viability of intermediaries
by the Bank, and a subsequent request to PU to take effective actions
against nonperforming intermediaries might have helped PU to achieve some
improvements in intermediaries' financial performance, in particular with
respect to arrears.
1.7.5    Lessons for future Bank-financed projects are:  (a) to include a
credit specialist, preferably an agricultural credit specialist, during the
complete project cycle, and (b) to examine more carefully the relevance of
project components with objectives during project review.
8. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
1.8.1    Bank-Borrower relationship was very good during project
preparation and appraisal, and negotiations were quite smooth.
Relationship during project implementation was quite supportive. Borrower
relationship with project executing agency was normal and the relationship
of executing agency with financial intermediaries was generally good.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UOIDDURS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-0)
PART II
PROJECT REVI  FROM BORROVEP E



- 19 -
PART II.  lROJW"T RIvEW FPME BOPOUER PERSPECTIVE
1._ INTRODUCTION
2.1.1    A project completion report was prepared in March 1989 by the
Central Bank Project Unit (PU). The Government's PCI contains a detailed
description of the project s implemaetation and the Government's
perspective on various aspects of the project. It presents detailed data
on the credit component by financial intermediary, type of benficiary and
type of livestment financed. It also included information on Iupact of
livestook investments financed by the project on productivity in different
areso. TIis section presents summary information from the Government PCR,
foesing on the Government s views and conclusions concerning its own and
the Bank's performanc*, and the impact of the project. This part has been
approved by the Borrower as stated in the letter dated March 21, 1990, also
attached to this section.
2. THE ROLE OF THE WORLD RANI
2.2.1    In the view of the Project Unit, the role of the World Bank in the
execution of this Project has been satisfactory. The Bank was prompt in
providing support and in solving operational problems. The timing of
supervision visits has been very adequate, especially with respect to the
frequency and quality of the visits. The Government also appreciated the
continuity of the supervisory staff who always worked in conformity with
their terms of reference.
3. THE RGLE OF THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
2.3.1    With the exception of the Project Executive Comaittee, the role of
the executing agencies has been mostly satisfactory. The aforementioned
committee did not perform as expected; the Government feels it should be
done away with, and its coordination tasks be reassigned to the Project
Unit.
2.3.2    BANADESA has played a very important role as financial
intermediary in channeling subloans to small-scale farmers. It processed a
large number of subloans (about 67% of the total) although, on the average,
the amounts involved were small.
2.3.3    In addition to BANADESA, twelve commercial banks partic'1pated as
financial intermediaries in the execution of this Project, with four of
them channeling more than 40% of the loan funds.
2.3.4    By the end of 1987, loan recuperation rates in most of the
intermediaries ranged from 60% to 83% of capital investment loans, with the
exception of BANADESA which showed a low 42%. This bank is still suffering
from low loan recuperation rates mainly due to administrative deficiencies.



- 20-
2.3.5   As for the Project Unlt, Its financial performence was
considerably affected by the financial burden caused by foreLgn exchange
risks and increased administrative expenses due to the Unit's involvement
ia activities outside the credit component.
4.  VERLLIMPACT O  H   RJC
2.4.1   Overall, the Project was sucCessful in achieving a greater
diversification of food crops, increasing livestock and milk production,
and Improving the trade balance by contributing to increased exports of
agicltural products and to Import substitution. The financial and
economic impact of the credit component is considered acceptable It is
estimated that the Project will continue to have a strong impact on the
increasing agricultural production in the future.



_ 21 -
TraslatiLon iuto Enlish of letter addressed to Mr. V. Nerc$sstanta,
Portfollo Ia_ar, dated Mwch 21, 1990 from Mt. Raon Narvaz. Deputy
Director, UPCA/BCH.
Dear Sir,
We would appreciate your lending us the Project Completion Report
for the Third-Agricultural Credit Project (lan 2284-lID) prepard by
yu, bae  on the draft submitted to you by our Project Unit. At the
same tim, I would like to exted my saicere apologies for the delay in
his rply, caued by the nomination of Ing. Mario Nuflo Gmero,
Director of the Project Unit, as Minister of Natural Resources of this
county.
I have revmeved the above-mentioned document and confirm my
coWplete agreement with the contents of Part I1 of this document. Also,
we are making note of the new guidelines of the World Bank in the form
of the prosentation of the Project Completion Report, which will
undoubtedly facilitate this task in the future.
Sincerely,
Signed by Ramon Narvaez
Deputy Director
UPGA/BCH
P.S. The Spanish translation of the Report suffers from some minor
deficiencies which could make its analysis and interpretation
difficult for persons who may or may not be connected with the
Project.



- 22 -
Teucialpa, 21 CI ma    do 1"0
Gecete de Cartar&
D1.YLsiEs de OpeZao4.auo &quiool&s
do- ---to
**Cho le aqresow *1 su.o &3  nto   4.* Tozimisealda .I Tober 11,-
yes de Cx o    et   o        (M-2=4aM  tal *    foe prupaxado per Us-
tdes an bs al bkor xxa   uinlntstzsdo PM est  uidid de PxOyato. y al
umi   tipo l. eutezo =io sinasgas disculpa poc A dma 4a coateste
beako qu ba qua9dado rlacidh cam U rwosa.t designecidu del Xnouioi
Hario bio Omwo cass iatzo de Deauss UstaJ.s del GabiamO do X
to -s.
as geisado *1 do_au.it  mAciaaado y 1* oomo .i total acwwui cm
ol coteido de la Parts U d.1 sim. Asiviin. stsac tmando debit_ -
nota de Us nuews disposicia es de1 Banco bMal On itcia do prosenal
cida de Tnforms de T.rinacidn de Proyeato, la quidudable t facili
tart -sa labor a futuro.
sub-Director
tPcBCH
P.D.: La traducci&i &I espdol 4de Informs adoloce de pequeas deficten-
ciao que podrfAn dificulta  @1 eanlsis a          idn de porso-
nas inouladas a no con e1 Proysoto.



- 23 -
PROJECt cOPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
TIIID AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2284-0)
PART ItrL.
SMOMY OP STATISTICAL DATA



PART III
Table I
Page I of I
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                      Year of
Number            Title         Approval  Status      Comments
Aariculture
Cr. 682-HO   First Agricultural Credit   1976   Closed   First general line of
credit operation
Ln. 1833-HO}
cr. I 005-HOJ Second Agricultural Credit 1980   Closed   First operation to set
aside funds for smait-
scae farmers' loans
Ln. 2991-HO  Fourth Agricultural Credit  1988   On-going Agricultural credit is
treated from a rural
financial sector
perspective
IndUstr
Lin. 2703-HO  Third Industrial Credit    1986   On-golng Includes a technical
assistance component
to review the whole
monitoring and control
system of the
Superintendency of
Banks



- 26 -
PART Ill
TABLE 2
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LLoan z4H)
Prolect Timetable
Date          Daft           Actual
stage             Planned        RevIsed          Date
IdentIctEon            3-March42                     3-March-82
Preparation             15-Aug42      23-Aug42        ISept-82
Apprasal Mision        15-Sept-82     27-Sept482     27-Sept482
Loan Negotiatons        4-Apr.83           -           4-Apr-83
Board Approval          3-May-63      24-May-63      19-May-83
Signature Date         29- -83             -         29-Sept-63
Date of Effectiveness   29-Dec-63     31-Jan-84       31-Jan-84
Completion Date         30-Jun-87     31-Dec47        31-Dec"87
Closing Date            31-Dec-87                    31-Dec-87
Source.: Dvslonal black books and project files.
COMMENTSM (a) BANADESA-the state development bank and the primary
lender to small farmer-had serious subloan arrearage problems This Issue
and the criteria for BANADESA's participation In the project was raised at all
stages of the project cycie. In additon, the issue of how to entice commercial
bank lendIng to smallscale farmers was also raised.
(b) Although project fnds were fully commited, suspension of Bank
disbursements to the Honduras Govemment required to keep the books
opened until October 3,1988.



- 27 _
PART III
TABLE 2
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
lHID AGRFd= .NXDIT PROJC
Prolect Schedule
1234 1234 1234 1234 1234 1234 12341
Quaulr               nI I1I i- 11 1m
Yewr          1     1983  1984  1985  196  198?  1988
IDENTIFICATION        _
PREPARATION
APPRAISAL MISSION
LOAN NEGOTIATIONS
BOARD APPROVAL
SIGNATURE DATE
DATE OF EFFECTrVENESS
COMPLEnON DATE          --
CLOSING DATE           -      -
Year         1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Quarter                  I  I I      I1 m            E
1234 1234 1234 1234 1234 1234 1234
Scheduled:              Actual: xoxacx



- 28 -
PART IlIl
Table 3
Page I of 2
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT LOAN
,(LO 2284) -I
Ctumulative Estimated and Actual Dlsbursements
(USS mililon)
World 8ank Fiscal Years
Cumulative Disbursements
(AsofJune30)         1984  1985   1986  1987  1968   1989
Appraisal Estmates _I         5.O   19.2  36.5  45.0   45.   45.0
Actual wI                     2.4   9.8  22.5  40.0  44.9  45.0
Actual as % of Estimate      488%  51.0%  61.5%  88.9%  99.7% 100.0%
Date of Final Disbursement   OCtober 3, 1988
staff AppraTsal Report, World Bank, April 25,1983.
b  Statement of Loans, World Bank, June 1982-1988



-29                      PART Ill
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
PLANNED vs. ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(Loan 2284-HO)
$45 -
$40-
$35 
$10                        / 
$30 -
n
1 $25 -
0
I
s $20-
D
'$15 
a
$10 
$5 
$0-
1984       1985        1986        1987        1988
World Bank Fiscal Years
 SAR Planned   +K  Actual



- 30 -
PART 1II
Table 4
ge1 of I
HONDURAS
T1D  AQRRICTURA  FE&          RM
Direct Bnefis
Appraal
ndkoors            UnR         mate           A     Ptual gi
Number of eciari         famIlies    6,000 (100%)  6,074 (100%)
- Small Farmers      familles     5,400 (90%)   4,616 (76%)
-Others              families      600 (10%)   1,458 (24%)
Allocaton of Cedit Funds    USS'000    70,081 (100%) 79,323 (100%)
- Small Farmers       US$'000    26,992 (38%)  18,418 (23%)
- Oths                USS'OOO    43,099 (62%)  61,505 (77%)
Creation of New Jobs     unit       14,000          1,000 perm.
man/mts.                 40,000 temp.
- GProlscUn Y         particip.    117            217
- Institutional I     paicilp.     450            647
- Farmers             courses     1,037           149
a/ Staff Apprisal Report World Bank, April 25,1983.
~/  In current prices. Source: intfrme de Termlnaclon del Proyecto," Unidad
del Proyecto de Credito Agropecuario (UPCA), Banco Central de
Honduras, March 1989, p. 7.
g/ Annual reports, Unidad de Proyecto de Credito Agroopecuarlio, Banco
Central de Honduras,
g4/ Includes training courses to staff of the Central Bank Superintendency
Office.
!/ Includes training courses to the staff of financial Intermediaries and
Banadesa.



31                         PART IlIl
Table 5
Page I of 2
ONDURAS
THIRD tyGICULTRyAL CREDIT LOAN
(U3* Million)
Appr paEsal   t_m           ACtUal/
Local Foreign Total   Total Costs   Total Costs
Costs  Costs  Cost  (Curt. Prcs) (1982 Prices)
L.  Cfadi PWogn
A. Lon-erm Inves
-Small Fains       11.8   6.   18.4         18.9       15.2
- Other Farms      21.0  10.3  31.3         66.3       53.8
- Non-Farm Invest   0.4   1.4   1.8         -_          -.
Subtotal LT. Invest.  33.2  18.3  51.5      85.2       69.0
B. Short-Term Credit
- Small Farms       5.8   2.8   8.6          na.        n.a.
- Other Farms       7.1   2.0   9.1          na.        n.a
- Non-Farn Invest.    0.8   0.1   0.9        n.a.       n.a.
Subtotal S.T. Credft  13.7   4.9  18.6      11.0       11.0
Total Credit Program  46.9  23.2  70.1      96.2       80.0
II.  Projct Unit           1.4   0.8   2.2          4.1        3.3
111. Trflang               0.6   0.4   1.0          0.9        0.8
IV. Basael  Costs         48.9  24.4  73.3        101.1       84.0
V.  PIce ContInges         0.4   0.2   0.6
VI. Ttal Proect Costs     49.3  24.6  73.9        101.1       84.0
Front-end Fee Bank Loan  -.-   0.2   0.2       0.1         0.1
Toal Fnancinr Reaulred 49.3  24.8  74.1       101.2       84.1
n.a.: not available
/i Estimated project costs In 1982 prices as reported In the Staff Appraisal Report,
World Bank, April 25,1983.
la  Actual cost as reported In the "Informe de Terminaclon del Proyecto," prepared
by the Unidad del Proyecto de Credito AgropecarIo (UPCA), Banco Central de
Honduras, March 1989. A breakdown of local and foreign Is not available.



32 -                 PART III
Table 5
Pag*2of2
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
(Loan 2284-HO)
Millions of US Dollars
$801
$70 -
$60-
$50 -
$40-
$30-
$20 -
$0
SAR ESTIMATE          ACTUAL COSTS
L.T. CREDIT           S.T. CREDIT
z  PROJECT UNIT        M  TRAINING



PART Ill
Table 6
Page 1 of 1
HONDURaS
THIRD AGRIC LTUAL CRDIT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio by Year and 3vQe of Actiit
low          iasn          us.us                                   TAL
of Am.at 9sof Dmint  9sof *mm~m  #f  Amma  9sof Amast   of? AMmat
L.. O3t) Lew*  (Una) L.a.  O3b) Low*  Q) L..  (Un) L., Vf3)
-5VSTOOC           ?M    7.      6    11.6   75   U.  6           2       2. 7   L2  2,S    4.9
AMRZOL1             so   1.?    77   33    1n   7.7   1            7.3   0o    2.9    24  23.1
WAVYWAM&O            4   6.2    21   6.5    14   6.7    J6   1.4    27   1.3    #    4.3
.      RBL   IRsIII    If   6.4    16   1.3    2    0.6    is   1.6         9  0  .     76   4.7
TOTAL         9   29.1          M 7 . 16.9   O    21.6   n74  21.9   U     29.1 3,    70.9
1#4          1965          286          i8n?         16            TOTAL
( of ToI)  (   of toal)  (S ofTu            tol)  (TS of TTauI)  a of toal)  ( of Tota1)
Loa.. Am.at Lom  Ausut Loome Auut Loom Awmst tame Au ?s  Lto  Aewuat
LIVESTOoci          IN     15 U          16    23    16    17    13         Is    13   765   an
AILfaKs 4s 26                         46    4X    43  2UN     53    is    33    45   JOS   u9X
NAEVY VISUSTIEt      as     a      SS    25      a     23    25    26    46    IS    46    65
TOTAL        24    135   285   222  211    27S        2      263   1JX  13   l          n



cENTRAL. 68*F N0N MWS
CPRl010 1904-1966)
1g                  1s                  108                  lSu                 so                   low                  sq
WKS~~~16                            198         R         90                 19                  196                  190                  1966IUI
BA .                    M.zM -  -      -       -        -L  m       -HL      "iA"      -NL       "am        -NL       *A         MN@W      "a        AMM
I) ATAWNIOA            62.00 2.8185864.00    24.00 1.62.712.00    12.00   712.7.600    11.00   66.M.00    10.00  7,04.0o    15.00 1.445.0.00    10.00   sw.M..
2) M6e 8*086           12.00   6S6.6900   3t2.00   47.178.00    30.00   706,.00       6.60   51.60.0       7.0.   48,0.00       6.00 1.00.240-.0    10.00 1.0.2.00
8) MI"a                21.00 1.47.066.00
4) Wa63D0             214.00 6167.26s.00   264.00 9.66.62.00  404.00 1,451,061.00   5#.00 t7,470,0ti.00   656.0  6.,42.00   5t.e00 tuS."S.61.0   4M.03 u1.65.00
S) CAPITALIZ8DWA       10.00   54M.20.00    1.00   76.600.40    11.O0   66,406.0    35.00    O0,0c0.0o   14.00  .40.70.O   26.00 S.fI.lu.00   60.00 4.04.107.00
6) W6AFE                                    4.00   S11600.00    10.00   42,660.00     8.0   216.6S0.00      .00    2..0.00    30.00   M50.40.00    27.00 1.7..20.00
7) Cl016lO             16.00 1.439,280.00    4.00   166,660.00   2.00   149.2.0o      4.00   442.1S.00     9.00   781o.600      6.00   68,170.00     7.0   474.0.00
6) COWINrAL            84.00 3.06.213.00    47.00 8.110,271.00    45.0 2,766,246.00    47.00 5.789.45.00    67.00 4.80.6.00    64.00 8.61.142-00    39.o0 4.44.62".00
9) FICSElA                                  10.00 1.024,144.00    18.00 1.162.00.00   9.00   005,76O.0     8.00   46.60.00      8.00    89.700.0M    5.0e   83.6.0
10) AfFA                                                         5.00    M.M2.00    12.00 1.14,0.44.0    14.00 1,M040.00    15.40  .56."6.0          4.00   *2.260.00
11) HM08A$              8.00   453,252.00
12) 8DT10               2.00   111,0.00    82.00 2,469.424.00    26.00 1t.08,52.00    6.00   900,.00    31.00 6,8,092.0       o 0 0.00 8,844.M0.00   9.eo0 1.1,940.00
13) OCCIOOWTE          86.00 2.077,27.00    50.00 2.962.047.00    54.00 2,560,440.0    54.00 a2,8604.o0    62.00 2,046,406.0    6.00 6.102.60.00   100.0 4.44,560.00
14) SC0IN              29.00 2,826,16.00    89.00 2,675.486.00    45.00 527,10.00    25.00 1,462,4000.   34.00 6,965.25.60    40.00 6,60.000.00    46.00 S.60,470.00
IS) lRA UADWO                                                                        24.00 A,260,45.00    86.0  2,6.9w0.o00     5.0o 2."92.8.00    41.00.7,10
MATAL                 460.00 28,271.092.00   499.00 5,87,.609.00   543.00 2.550,M501.0   757.00 66,92."9.00   ot7.00 48,4.4..00   774.0e 42.006.613.0   791.00 66.503.80.00
MACEi UM
'Uw
=



Balsac, of Portfolto oad Arreer of Psrblilclipl  Private _mb.
Period* 12-1986
(ThouGeada Los)
ATLWMIDA  OCCIOIS SMCMO  I*1M   hOINO   UUCIO CItFOOL rlILNFICU.  FSA 3M6@A3                            wffM    IuAw,i Un 10M             TO T A L
9.2
a) Totl Porfeollo.         173,440.0  90.JII.0  101.6 .0 11446. 0 87.4B5.0 *1,976.0   801621.10                                                           4*.  .0    77 .8.0
b) IWCA Portfolio"           9, 676.2 11 462.8    4.S.?  4,267.4 I2,89.6   7,064.0    ,.8                                                                   8.4871     6,6.6A3
e)of FortfolIo (b/)             8.7       11.0        4.0      8.7     14.2       9.8       8.4                                                                7.1         e.2
*) Pavuegt. tob Cog leGtded.   8.976.1   6,30.8    8,076.6  2818.8  6,2157.4   2,"8.0    442.6                                                              2,467.8    3S0,6.0
:) Payrmat Colleted.        21926.2   8.727.2    1,81.4  1,067.9  4*28.9   1915.4    2.256.8                                                               1,19.6    20,457.9
t) 5 of Ibcuporstio. (ad/)      73.6     70.1        81.8    45.S    72.9        72.8       49.5                                                               69.2       8o.0
d) Coate" mt  Potfolioe M)      10.6      14.0       29 .     29.5    14.0       10.2       24.4                                                                7.J        16.7
a) Totl Portfolio          206,304.0 104,216.0   I18,754.0 I52.42S.0 91.71.0  87,21 .0    66,266.0   24,07.0  14.1*8.0  U8,401.0                           49,66".0  9S8.732.0
J) VCA Peortfol o            9,450.8  12,860.8     4,269.6  4,5O.1  14,449.4   *,452.8   12,266.8    I,tW2.    1,97?.1       .0                             1,184.7    48,664.5
) 6 of PorwfolIo (b/a)          4.6       11.6        8.0      3.e    15.7        9.0       18.5       6.5        8.4       0.                                 2.J         7.2
4) P63.aet* to be Collcted   7,3I7.9   7,494.2    8,274.6  2,554.2  7,726.$   8,17.8   6,741.8        90.5      294.9       1.8                             2,741.9    40.464.6
e) Patreate Collectd         6,136.2  4,506.6      1,m.2  1,775.6  5,81.7   2,068.8    2,244.8        84.9        0.0       0.6                             2,642.4    26,716.4      1
n) * Recueration C./d)         66.0      60.2        54.7    49.         .0 SO   04.7       Jt.1      3.6         0.0      26.I                                96.4        o64 i
d) Canti*aatd Portfolioe ()     10.9     24.2        84.7     17.0    16.6       17.4      26.6        8.5       14.9       1.6                                 8.5        20.0      '
I*"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a) Total Portfolio         210,28.0 121,111.0   182,801.0 110,624.0 91,646.0  78.207.0   74,000.0   30,256.0   88,714.0  60,644.0   71n,9n.0   9,609.0     61,869.0  1,24,864.0
b) LCA Portfolio             6,63.6  18,776.8    4,438.8  4*,83.1 U1,972.0   6,741.6   13,448.7    4,70.2    .3tO.e    817.4    1,407.2           81.8        816.6    77,843.9
,) S of PortfolIo (b/a)          4.1      11.4        8.4      8.2     17.4       7.6      18.2       15.6        6.1       1.0        2.0          .0          0.8         6.4
4) Pajm..t to be Cotllcted   6,334.9   9,818.4    8,264.9  2,.46.0  8,96.6   8,448.9    7,7m.        68.2    1,949.9       44.       5l.8         0.0        502.0    45,021.6
*) Paleeto Collcted          4.90.1   5,976.4    1,86.8  1,618.6  6,401.7   2,261.9    4,264.7       409.0    1,47.1        4.4       23.8         0.0        467.9    29,200.6
t) I   _ seatom (./d)           78.4     54.1        41.t    43.4      71.4      66.2       54.7      47.4       76.6       9.6       56.2                     97.0        64.9
d) Caeb&oSted Poetfolio M)      15.6     24.8        45.2     19.J    16.1       20.8       26.2       9.6       16.4       7.0        1.6         0.0          4.7        20.6
a) total Portfolio         107,461.0 14S.03t.0   140,527.0 168,168.0 96.6540.  72,62n.0   92,12.0   8,902.0   70,148.0  6,96.0   81,80.0    100,064.0    46,300.0  1,824.0:.0
b) MICA Portfolio            7,677.8  U.907.0    4,S72.1  5,214.9 I6,136.2   5,150.9   18,091.9    6,e63.2   8,tt9.4      478.    2,726.4       1,061.7       117.7    67.154.6
a) I of Portfolio (b/a)          8.9      11.7        8.1      8.1    16.1        7.1       19.6      1U.0        5.7       1.0        8.8          1.1         0.2         4.6
4) Paje.to to be Coll cted   5,569.   10,11.0 0,ll.  *.   2,eO1.3  9,962.8   8,430.7    7,970.7    2,327.2    2.775.,     139.8   1*,04.6          0.0        101.8    50,065.2
*) Paete Callected           4,064.4   5,671.3    2,049.6  1,929.5  6,750.1   1,740.8    8,750.6    1,572.9    2,235.4     06.1      6tO.7         0.0         96.6    10.455.4  (      .
f) J Recuperation (o/d)        7n.0       S4.0       e0.6    68.9t    67.9       50.6       47.2      o7.6       80.6      61.1       53.7                     95.4        61.2
a) Coat"Siot.d Portfolio (S)    19.6      20.5       26.5     16.7    20.2       33.0       23.4       13.4      18.        6.0       14.4          0.0         4.0        22    0 h 2
eSource: StatisLical sul-tio/IKH. bliance Sh.ets. Account of la,*stmenta in tosas snd D;icowut* at 12/31 of eocs ye^,. P,,liainasy fiou;as.
.So,urca: Snp.riatandncv Audsti,L# ,d Ual,./I  SE.t.u of C0OS014d.t.4 Arr..,r



bWlac. of Portfolio and Arrears of Participatin Private Ban"
Periodi 1912-196
(Tbougande Lee)
ATL4NUDtAOCCtOE1T  6ACMNS 0M              S6606D610   COIIR10 ClWrN AL IMff L   PICDA    AIWI!   bWffA3    W00             WAS          1 I T  T A tL
Total Portfolio        202.069.0  16,Yd01.0  151,M92.0 170,158.0, 114,91.0  64U,94.0   91,69.0  60,1".0   74,619.0  84,781.0   9,476.0    U16,461.0        0.0   1,840,806.0
b) tJCA Portfolio          e,004.9   17,818.7   4,068.7  7,236.0   16,789.5   4,296.0    10,875.0   7,669.6    8.412.2    460.8   4,266.6     6,0#6.0       0.0    101,1f6.2
c) S of Portfotio (b/)       3.4       10.9        8.1     4.8       15.1       S.#       21.7      15.1         4.6      1.S        4.6         5.5                     7.6
4) Pftyante to be Collcted  5.092.7    8,l100.5 3i,04.6  2,06.7   10.607.4   J.618.7   10,U1.2   2,U64.6    2,009.8     290.8  2a.m.2         1,855.9       0.0       6,069.8
a) Pajente CollIcted      3,742.8    7,610.5    1,1.1  2,295.1   6,9l6..   2,685.8    6,62..1   1,783.       2,412.2    110.6   2,097.0        764.9        0.0      26,855.8
f)S Recuperation (0/d)       78.6     U5.4        51.0   7n.9        56.8      4f.8       U5.0      60.1        65.9     62.7       76.0        57.9                     6t.1
) Contaehaated Portfolio (5)   10.8    81.5       81.5      8.S      10.0      20.0        17.0     10.7        11.6      U.S       18.6         0.6                     19.5
1967
*) Total Portfolio      271,248.0  197,856.0  165,009.0 212.817.0  151,606.0  92,242.0   119,826.0  02.62.0  U12.322.0  77,562.0   29,U162.0    14i,877.0    0.0   1,745648.0 4Q
b) tCA Portfolio          7.764.3   18,160.7    4.146.8  6,441.0   24,039.8   8,711.9   0,209.1  10,191.1    5,056.4   1,29.s  65,16.5        9.7*4.6        0.0    116,165.0
c) 2 of Portfolio (b/a)      2.9        9.2        2.6      4.0      15.9       4.0       16.9      12.2         8.0      1.7        4.1         4.6                      6.7
4) Payments to be Collected  4,645.4  12,002.8   8,288.9  8.4a2.s   11,496.0   2,699.8    0,960.,  5,240.7    I,638.5    85.4    2,5, 0.8    S6,621.5        0.0     69,6st.0
.) Pftnw  Collectd       8,838.0    7.005.1    1,726.0  2,847.8    7.369.5   1.393.6   6.834.5   2,263.0    1,450.8    244.,   1,786.5       8,076.5        0.0     a6.16.s
f) 6 Secuperatio  (l/d)      72.4      55.6       68.4    77.1       54.8      51.6       56.8      69.4        79.0     06.8       70.7        85.0                     54.0
) Coae"iada Portfolio (a)    18.5      00.6       s6.5     9.5       17.1      85.2       20.4       0.6        12.8      6.6       18.9         5.5                     68.5
1966
a) Total Portfolio      351,370.0  260,84.0  177,299.0 2n7,576.0  198,66.0  91,256.0   1o,832.0 1.489.0   12S.702.0 116.68.O    6352,5.0   150.950.0        0.0   2.199.872.0
b) UCA Portfolio          7,463.8   19,012.0    6,066.2 10,009.   268.17   3,112.9    22,666.8  10,488.7    2,702.J   2,SS4.8    4,608.3    11,970.8         0.0    126,771.1
a) S of Portfolio (b/a)      2.1        7.1        2.0      5.7      13.7       3.4       1s.1       8.1         2.2       2.8       8.0          7.6                     6.5
d) payete to be Collected  4,969.2   12,567.6   8,057.9  8,927.6   18,290.0   2,572.8    9,854.2   4,108.9   1,43.0    869.8   2,620.4        5,78.1         0.0      64,399.2
d) Payments Colle I actd  3,580.o       17 1,390.7  2.971.6  8b,43.0   1,643.8    4,912.2   8,o02.8           1,075.2    460.2   1,672.8      4,955.2        0.0      42,114.1
f) 5 IRcWUerAtion (e/d)      71.0      52.2       45.5    76.7       64.8      60.6        62.5     72.1        76.0      00.8      71.6         66.4                    65.4
s) Conteainated Portfolio    10.3      25.1       82.0      9.8      17.9      32.4        19.6     11.2        18.8       7.9      1.66         0.6                     17.6
*lorce; statistical 6b.letin/lt. ablance SLeet. Account of Inveteate Ia Loan and Dlacounte at 12/81 of eci y7er. Prllalnar*r floure. 
.oSource: Supee;nteodomcy Auditing otf Boanl/6C. s.atue of Coonalldaotd Arreare
Zwe



PART III
- 37                                          Table 9
Page I of I
ThLm(NLM
THIRD A2MEREMMR CEWT LOYW
(LOan 224O)
Prolct FPnancina
(US$ million)
t d  S.of    int   sof            S d  S                   lt                 S.f
SWoa1_    TXTOl   ftel   TeOal  Reeaile  TOtal  R6v,).).   rotal    Atel    TOt"l
I.  I#g
:. Shet-two   m       * to Sol             4.8    S.        18.$     1.       1.8    1.       i's     1.63       1.3     1.31
L. lame-twe SuIosa to 0eII Prr..w.        1.    1709 9.0    I2.1I             9.2   12.41     9.4    12.O6       9.4     9.31
S. Laos-two  Sle. to Othor be .            19.6   20.S      27.0    83.As    27.6   27.2S    27.0     7.25      27.4    27.11
4. Sket-tar. Sab t   to Other beef.        8.0    6.71      5.3      7.1L     .8    ?.I5      8.3     7.15       5.2     S.21
8. TCeit,                                  0.7    0.9O       0.7     0.0      0.8    0.7S     0.4     0.65       0.4     0.41
6. lar.oaet.l _berials id Sr0.6    .1                       0.       1.i5     0.8    .0.61    0.4     0.831      0.4     0.41
7. FPlad Vehicles Sa. &PI...$              0.8    0.41      0.8      0.43     0.4    O.6S     0.4     0.6s       0.4     0.4#
8. C.Mltaate                               0.5    0.71      0.5     0.71      0.2    0.25     0.1     0.15       0.1     O.15
9. FOR                                     0.1    0.26      0.1     0.26      0.1    0.95     0.1     0.26       0.1     0.1i
10. tellesated                             0.4    O.S       -.-     -.-      -.-    -.-       -.-     -.-        -.-    -.-
TOrAL tM                                  48.0  460.711     4.0    6O.7S    48.0   60.71    48.0   60.71        45.0    44.1
II.   1     _f     /                           8.6   11.9O       -.-     -.-      -.-    -.-      -.-      -.-      15.2    15.01
UIt. FISICZAL DPmWR     k/                      7.7   10.4       -.-    _._       -    _.-        -.-      -.-       13.2    13.01
TV. CISR.L WM   I/                             1.    17.06       -.-     -.-      -.-    -.-      -.-     -.-       27.9    27.61
tOTWAL  UnM                                74.1  100.0-              -.-       -.-    -.-      -.-     -.-      101.2   100.0j
t/ b  cast.rY Of dltaraeaet.            Lfem lA samt.
ki bed an   e deftIwo    IR the  1e       TeMIle. del PrQpste .* Uidd del Preato do Credits A_repaeute (WA).
bee. C_eteal de H, dura, low   196.
S/ Actual date tefr I  _repate fblt'. d)ewurAe      aso June 1969.



- 38 _
PART III
Table 10
page l at1
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL  EDIT
(LLmn 2Z8tHO
Intemal Rate of Retum
Acoralsal Estimate    Actual
Economic Rate of Rturn          26%49%               n/l I
Financial Rate of Retunm        19%47%              25%930% S
nia = not appilcable
_I The ERR was not calculated In the Govemmenrs PCR. In addIion, f Is no
longer Bank practice to calculate ERR for projects with large crednt
components
b/ Represents the range of expected financial rates of return for the diferent
Investment plans evaluated in te SAR.
gI Financial rate of return as estimated by UPCA In ft "Informe de
Terninascon del Proyecto, March 1989.



- 39 -
PART Il
Table 11
Page I of 2
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJE
Status of Covenants
Deadline
Coenant           Sub              F  COmRIlance       stus
LOAN AGREEMENT
Secton 3.03       EANADESAs Plan of    Conditons of   Peformed but
Actlon for           Effectiveness   not Implemented
Improvement of Loan                 satisactorily
R.ecuperation on
ank-Flnanced Subloans
PROJECT AGREEMENT
Section 2.05 (b)    Progre Reports       Quarterly    Compiled with
Section 4.01     Audit of Prolect         Annual      Complied with
Accounts
Section 4.02     Audit Reports on         Annual      Not fully
Financial Stements                  compiled with
of Financial                        (se nex page)
Intermediaries
Schedule         Procurement               n/a        Complied with
Schedule 2       Celilng on Interest       n/a        Complied with
Secton 11 (12) (d)   Rates on Subloans
SIDE LETTER      BANADESA's Plan of    Dec. 31, 1984   Complied with
Action to Improve                   In June 1986
Subloan Collection
on its Overall
Portfolio
n/a = not applicable



-40-                                           PART III
Table 11
Page 2 of 2
-S - TN    *ACULTUM. L JE    -
Cmlf,m .i     WI.d~.ui~b
_M.- l lete *t                                      be tCoesl ee       Of Tqcl,esa
*ff._tIe. R4o ;_i ,inuste               Maumesi      Oleba,eernt        Moieume
f~~~~~~ui Cintrl bai                           flmImI            soa         !nsf
am  de eidete                                 4                                   4              4
_ee  Pleael. Camveecle
Daesdl  _es  d,S
_be  de C$smtellid Aee .
bees SodwefewS.    o
bees tleesl                                                       4              4              4                 4
Bane  belteal de O_lle    esle
Ftaelie C.e.emelem                            4
Same, do Be, Trmdojudwe.                                             ays"                          o Brroer
Bo e  l0ced""     -
_ - A1"4* 
bmees diso lee Puef rame A indu.
b    s Heorel  del    "WA.                    J
bees Cmdel do bed
bael  lame with                                      RaeC _It e        Na Te*ial
ftem ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     "    i    Ir_                             ad _         0     _*             _I
4 f.ta Ciem  bale                                       U m Un           E    a -           m eh ns    rs
_ames de leeideee                             4                    J              J             4
bee Atleetid
tae de Ide . I1erse   Ar_;c                   4
b    1. C"d tel," e  i.                       J 
eames Seci de                                 4                                   J             J
berc del -a    .                              4                                   4
b_e  Cti_Its                                                       J              4       
bee blemel do  erel O_1- rfele                4                    4              4                               J
bee do e, Tebjedeee_                          4
b.dollee P.eru Aeade                          4
bees te*r8 del  eft<
be  Cetl do l duHr
Source: Diil Sqieede



- Al -
PART III
Table 12
Page 1 of t
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJIE
-       {~LoAM 224O )
Use of Staff Resources
STAFF INPUT(weekcs) FY62 FY83 FY84 FY8N FY86 FY87 FY88 Total
Ident/Prep.        5.4  11.9         -.-   --   we           17.3
Apprsal             e---a 59.6              or .4            50.6
Negotiaton               4.9     -     ,   ..      .          4.9
Supervision        -.-   0.9  12.8   *.9  16.6  22.5   60   70.7
Total Staff Weeks  5.4  77.3  12.8  11.9  16.6  22.5   6.0  152.5
Total
Date    Number Of  Staff weeks   Specialization
MISSIONS         (IMIY    pons    In the Frep
Identflication      03/82       1           1                 i
ldent/Prep.         06/82       1           1                 1
Preparation         09/82       2           4               I,m
Appraisal           09/82       7          16.5        e,h,j,I,m
Supervision I (partial)  10/83  1           0.5              h
Supervision 2       01/84       1           1                h
Supervision 3       03/84       2           2               h,e
Supervision 4       10/84       1           1                 1
Supervision 5       09/85       2           4               I,h
Supervision 6       06/86       2           4               l,h
Supervision 7 (partial)  05/87  1           1                m
Supervision 8       11/87       1           1.5               1
e = economist, I = agricultural economist; h = agriculturalist;'
j = financial analyst; m = credit specialist



- 42 -
PART IlIl
Table 13
Page 1 of I
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
inres Rates for Aaricuftural Unes of Credt
(Percent8ges)
PU FUNDS            OTHER BCH UNES    OWN FUNDS
INTEREST   BIRF TO wi    Fl TO        BIH         Fl TO    TO
PERIOD      BCH   TO Fl PRODUCERS  TO Fl  PRODUCERS  PRODUCERS
2184-7/84    10.08    11.58    15.58   7.0-11.0  13.0-15.0    19.0
8/84-1/85    9.89    11.40    15.40    7.0-11.0  13.0-15.0    19.0
2t85-7/85    9.29    10.80    14.80    6.0-11.0  11.0-15.0    19.0
8/85-1186    8.82    10.32    14.32    6.011.0  11.0-15.0     19.0
2186-7/86    8.50    10.00    14.00    60- 9.0  11.0-13.0     19.0
8/86-1/87    8.23    9.73    13.73     6.0- 9.0  11.0-13.0    19.0
2187-7/87    7.92     9.42    13.42    6.0- 8.0  11.0-12.0    17.0
8/87-1/88    7.76    9.42    13.42     60- 8o   11.0-12.0     17.0
2188-7/88    7.72    9.42    13.42     60- 9.0  11.0-13.0     17.0
8/88-1/89    7.59    9.42    13.42      .0- 9.0  11.0-13.0    17.0
2189 (current) 7.59  9.42    13A2      6.0- 9.0  11.0-13.0    17.0
Source: Lefter from PU/BCH dated June 15, 1989.



--raph L -
Honduras-Third Agricultural
Shares of Agricultural Exports
33'3I
coffee 23.4%
tobeelea~~~~~~~~~ofe
sugar 3i.13%                                        te
shrimp 4.3%         Other 28.8% 
frozen mcat 5.2%                    2 4;rimp   frozen meet
7A4X     2.8%
1982                         1987                    14I
Sourcec Einco Central de Honduras



IBRD 16747R1
i6                                               XS5W5 r SE-    6 b         r-MEXICO
;   )                                             W a r Z    e ~~                ~         ~        ~~~~          ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a n  S       o_aXs   fr,
BELIZE                     Caribbean                                         Sea  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~   ~~~~ELIZE~~~C' IELZ
C.0_~~               MALA 2 -
B  E  L  I  Z  E   ,                                                              v     / X c z . 4 s  4;4  1 ~~~~~~~~~-               a,   u ,,/GaU              A TE- sA L1 
J                                                                       OATA- O  N                          Dt Th R-
EL SALVADOR    VNICARAGUA
-**                                                                                                                                                                                 14'a] 4L                 .
P.                                                                                                                     r1;1:11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-  Jf'C  O(.I\  cotICA
GS UATGERC                                                                                                                                                                       ALA CRDI PROJECT
14    4
E-          SAVA O                                   6cs d                    C.                                                                        -'  =  Ineprnational Boundanien
_~~~~~~~~~ C   ,rA, t} Ma,i                                                      IOEtR5 0S              25     50 70                    1,200 -1,800
,.4F OFfON$&A                   El AA
l _                                             t                 ~        ~       ~        ~               rF                                                                     U              \~~~   NOVEMBER iSeee



