Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4298-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 25, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          2.00 Lempiras (L)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Iletric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADESA               National Bank of Agricultural Development
BCH                    Central Bank of Honduras
COHBANA                Honduran Banana Corporation
COHDEFOR               Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development
CONADI                 National Investment Corporation
CONSUPLAN'E            Superior Council of Economic Planning
CU                     Coordination Unit
IHCAFE                 Honduran Coffee Institute
IHMA                   Honduran Agricultural Marketing Institute
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
INA                    National Agrarian Institute
MRN                    Ministry of Natural Resources
PU                     Project Unit of the Central Bank
RUTA                   UNDP's Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SOE                    Statement of Expenditure
USAID                  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE ........... .............                1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......................................   2
A. Economic Setting...               . .                                   2
B.  Importance, Performance and Prospects                  .      .2
C.  Main Features and Structure.                                          3
- Natural Resources...                                         .  3
-  Population                  .............                   . .    3
- Land Use ..............                                             4
- Land Reform . .                                                     4
-  Institutions and Supporting Services .            .                4
- Public Policy...   5
D.  Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector                  . . . .           5
Iii.   THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM   ...................7.............   7
A. Monetary Policy....                                                    7
B.  The Banking System ...................             .      *.......   9
C. Financing Agriculture              ..                                  9
D.  National Bank of Agricultural Development..   10
IV.    THE PROJECT ..         ...................................  11
A.  Brief Description ................................  . . . .    . . .  11
B.  Detailed Features .....................................   11
-  Credit Program .....................................  11
-  Project Unit .....................................  12
-  Training        .....................................   12
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing . ..                      .     ..   12
D.  Procurement . .....................................   14
E.  Disbursement  ........  ................... ..... . ...........  14
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......   15
A.  Organization and Management ..............................  15
-  Executive Committee .................................  15
-  Project Unit ..........................................  15
-  Financial Intermediaries (FIs)                .....   16
-  National Bank of Agricultural Development  .           .16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Honduras during September/October 1982. The mission comprised Messrs.
M, Fairless (mission leader), V. Ferrer, 0. Schulz, J. Yaron (Bank) and
j. Velez (consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)                                        Page No.
B.  Lending Procedures        .........................   18
-  Flow of Funds .    .     .      ............ 18
-  Lending Procedures between the Bank and the Government   18
-  Leniding Procedures between BCH and FIs ............. ...  19
-  Lending Procedures between FIs and Sub-borrowers ....... 20
C.  Technical Assistance and Training .     ....................... 21
-  Technical Assistance .....       .............................  21
-  Training       ..............................................  21
D.  Management Information System, Evaluation and Reporting ..  23
-  Management Information System .....    ....................  23
-  Evaluation .     .     .      .................. 23
-  Reporting ............................. .      ....      23
E.  Accounts and Auditing      ...........................  24
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS, ANALYSIS AND RISK .25
A. Project Benefits             . . .25
B. Economic and Financial Analysis....  25
C. Project Risk .26
VII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............. 27
ANNEXES
Terms of Reference        ...........................................  29
A.  Training Coordinator ...................... .29
B. Extension Specialist ...............................  29
2.     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .....  31
Supporting Tables
I  -  Farm Distribution in Honduras ...........     .............. 32
2   -  Number and Value of Subloans Granted by Financial
Intermediaries under previous Bank Projects ........... 33
3  -  Number and Value of Subloans Granted by Activity under
previous Bank Projects .................. ..............  34
4  -  Summary of General Conditions of Credits and Loans ....  35
5   -  Credit Component .......     ...............................  36
6 - Project Unit Component              . . .37
7 - Training Component                      .        .          38
8   -  Disbursement Schedule ......     ...........................  39
9   -  Projected Cash Flow ......     .............................  40
10   - Milk Collection and Refrigeration Center Investment
Model (12,000 liters/day): Investment Analysis and
Cash Flow Projection ......    ............................ 41
11   -  Tobacco and Maize Investment Model (10 ha): Investment
Analysis and Cash Flow Projection ............ ......... 42
12   - Melon and Maize Investment Model (4.2 ha): Investment
Analysis and Cash Flow Projection ..................... 43



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
Page No.
Table
13   -  Dual-purpose Cattle Investment Model (200 ha):
Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection .......... 44
14   -  Prices Used in Project Appraisal ................. .. ....  45
15   -  Sensitivity Analysis .................................. 46
CHART
Project Unit Organization Chart .................... ..... ...... 47
MAP
IBRD 16747R - Project Unit Offices






HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
1.01      The Government of Honduras has requested the World Bank Group to
continue to finance a rediscount facility for the banking system that
provides for investment in agriculture.  It would be the Bank's fifth
agricultural credit project to be administered by a well qualified Project
Unit (PU) established for this purpose in 1970 in the Central Bank of
Honduras (BCH).
1.02      Due to the rapid commitment of funds of the ongoing Second Agricul-
tural Credit Project (Credit 1005-HO/Loan 18-33-HO), Bank missions identified
the proposed project in March 1982, and in June 1982 reviewed the preparation
work undertaken by the PU. During July and August, the United Nations Devel-
opment Program's Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA) in Costa Rica
assisted the PU in drafting the preparation document. By March 31, 1983, 70%
of the US$25.0 million provided by Credit 1005-HO/Loan 1833-HO was committed
and 53% was actually disbursed.
1.03      The main objective of the proposed project would be to provide
long-term financing for investments and short-term financing for incremental
working capital and thereby promote:
(i) agricultural exports to improve the country's balance of payments;
(ii)  rural production, incomes and consumption; and
(iii) employment.
1.04      Other objectives of the project would be to:
(i) improve subloan collection by the National Bank of Agricultural
Development (BANADESA);
(ii)  upgrade the commercial banks' agricultural loan officers' project
appraisal techniques;
(iii) improve small-scale farmers' managerial and bookkeeping capacity;
and
(iv)  reduce the present paperwork and time needed for subloan approval.



II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Honduras is one of the most underdeveloped countries in the Western
Hemisphere; its per capita income was US$590 in 1981. During 1950-75, real
GDP grew at 3.7% a year but with a 2.7% rate of population growth, real per
capita income grew only about 1% a year.  This low growth is partly the
result of the economy's dependence on banana production that is often
hampered by hurricanes. During 1976-79, GDP recovered and grew at 7.7% a
year owing to increased banana and coffee production, high coffee prices and
a substantial expansion of both public and private investment.  But in 1980,
the GDP growth raLte was reduced to 2.9% per annum and in 1981 to only 0.8%
per annum, due to reduced production levels and lowered private investment
because of political events in neighboring Central American countries. In
addition, public finances deteriorated and caused a large increase in the use
of domestic credit that resulted in a tightening of credit to the private
sector.
2.02      The newly elected Government took office in late January 1982
facing a balance of payments deficit and fiscal problems. The Government
took steps to redress these financial difficulties and the adjustment program
it designed provided the basis for negotiating a stand-by arrangement with
the IMF in November 1982. The program included new tax measures, a reduction
of current expenditures of the public sector, higher budget controls over
decentralized agencies, elimination of arrears in payments and the phasing
out of import restrictions. However, solving the balance of payments deficit
in the medium term will depend on export growth originating in the
agricultural sector.
B. Importance, Performance and Prospects
2.03      Agriculture currently generates three quarters of export earnings
and over one quarter of the GDP; the sector also employs over half the
economically active population. Agriculture's value added however grew only
at an annual compound rate of 1.9% during 1970-80 mostly owing to Hurricanes
Francelia and Fifi and to the land tenure insecurity caused by the Agrarian
Reform in the first half of the decade.
2.04      The agricultural economy is dominated by two crops, bananas and
coffee.  During 1977-81, bananas accounted for 31% of the value added by the
cropping sector and coffee accounted for 25%. The main basic grain, maize,
accounted for 14%;; sorghum, rice and beans for 9%; sugar, 6%; tobacco, 3%;and
other crops, the most important being plantains, cotton, oil palm and citrus,
for the balance. The whole cropping subsector accounted for about 68% of the
value added in thre agricultural sector; livestock, including poultry,
accounted for 19%; forestry for 12%; and fisheries, beekeeping and hunting
for the rest.
2.05      During 1977-80, coffee exports accounted for about 28% of the
nation's exports; bananas for 26%; timber for 8%; and beef for 7%. The
main other agricultural exports were sugar, cotton and tobacco. The



main agricultural imports are wheat, averaging about 65,000 tons per year for
about US$12.0 million; dairy products, averaging about 6,000 tons per year,
for US$9.0 million; and occasionally maize.
2.06      The near term prospects of the agricultural sector are not
promising.   The world economic recession has depressed the prices of
Honduras' main agricultural exports and caused recent international trading
restrictions: the coffee export quota for 1982/83 to markets covered by the
International Coffee Organization is 180,000 bags less than the previous
year's quota, representing a revenue loss of about US$40 million;
furthermore, US preferential treatment for Honduras' sugar exports has been
cut back, representing an annual loss of about US$25 million. In conclusion
agriculture is a key sector within the Honduran economy and under the present
difficult world trade outlook agriculture must diversify rapidly to meet the
impact of market fluctuations. To that end agricultural farm investment must
be increased and the proposed project would help achieve this.
C. Main Features and Structure
Natural Resources
2.07      Honduras has a land area of 11.2 million ha, 80% of which is rugged
mountains and 20% is flat to undulating land. About 6.6 million ha are
forests (mostly hardwood and coniferous) and some 1.8 million ha are covered
by eroded soils, swamps or urban areas. In 1981 the estimated potential
farmland was about 2.8 million ha, about 1.0 million of which was used as
grasslands or fallow. Use of the remaining 1.8 million ha varies each year,
but currently 1.1 million ha is under pastures, 0.2 million under permanent
crops, and about 0.5 million under seasonal crops.
2.08      Honduras has five geographic regions: western Honduras is mountain-
ous terrain used mainly for lumber, cattle and coffee; the northeastern
coastal plain has a humid tropical climate, poor soils and is used for cattle
raising; the southern coastal plain has a long dry season and is used mostly
for cattle raising, sugarcane, cotton and rice under irrigation; and the
central valleys have relatively fertile soils that are used for similar
crops. The northwestern valleys and plains hold the most productive soils
and there the major banana plantations are located; it is, however, an area
subject to flooding.
Population
2.09      Of the country's 3.8 million inhabitants in 1982, increasing at a
rate of 3.4% per annum, 64% is rural. The country has a low demographic
density (32 persons per square kilometer) but an uneven distribution as most
of the population is concentrated in the northwestern part of the country.
Malnutrition is severe and health standards are poor with one-half of the
nation's population not having access to potable water and three-quarters of
the households being without sanitary waste disposal and electricity. Under-
employment is pronounced although labor shortages are seasonal, almost 80%
of the agricultural labor force is engaged in subsistence agriculture.



-4-
Land Use
2.10      The agricultural sector shows a dichotomy in its productive and
social structure. The low average yields of subsistence crops (such as basic
grains) are a result of the low level of technology used by small-scale
farmers. These crops are often grown on hillsides under shifting
cultivation, causing erosion. These farmers have great difficulty in both
obtaining production credit and in marketing their product. Export-oriented
or industrial crops, such as bananas and tobacco, are usually grown under a
high level of technology and in close coordination with organizations that
support production and marketing. Coffee is an exception, being produced
under both low and high levels of technology. Livestock production including
dairy production is undertaken by both small and large farmers under a wide
array of technology.
Land Reform
2.11      Actual land distribution is highly skewed.  According to the 1974
National Census, there were 195,341 farms, 64% of which were less than 5 ha,
accounting for only 9% of the 2.6 million ha available for agricultural
development (Table 1).
2.12      The first land reform legislation was decreed in December 1972 in
order to create more stable political conditions as the downfall of the
previous Government had been caused by land invasions by peasant groups. A
more comprehensive agrarian reform law, still in force, was decreed in
January 1975 and aimed at improving land utilization by transferring poorly
used land held by large landowners to landless rural families. The National
Agrarian Institute (INA) is responsible for land acquisition and distribution
as well as for the organization, training, management and technical support
including extension of the peasant settler groups. By mid-1981, INA had
settled about 48,000 peasant families; about 36,000 remained organized in
nearly 1,400 farmer groups, after initial desertion due to lack of adequate
infrastructure. Beneficiaries were forced to form these groups to qualify
for credit from the National Development Bank that later became BANADESA, but
they did not always blend well into a working group and often ended with low
production, splintered groups and credit mismanagement.  Seventy percent of
the land settled has still not been properly titled, but titling is a
priority of the present Government, and external financial resources are
being provided by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID).
Institutions and Supporting Services
2.13      The Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN), BANADESA (paras 3.10 to
3.15), and INA (para 2.12) are the most important institutions in the
agricultural sector. Other organizations in specific fields are the Honduran
Banana Corporation (COHBANA), the Honduran Corporation for Forestry
Development (COHDEFOR), the Honduran Coffee Institute (IHCAFE) and the
Honduran Agricultural Marketing Institute (IHMA).
2.14      MRN is responsible for animal health, plant quarantine, research
and extension, and some services such as machinery rental and the execution
of specific projects such as the Bank-financed Guayape Rural Development



- 5 -
Project. MRN received technical support financed under the First Agricul-
tural Credit Project, Credit 628-HO (para 2.20), but its performance has
deteriorated in the last few years owing to frequent personnel changes.
USAID is presently providing funds to help improve MIRN and consolidate the
extension service and research.
2.15      The marketing of major export commodities is well handled by the
private sector.  IHMA has begun to have a positive effect on the marketing of
the four basic grains.  Inefficiencies occur at the processing stage usually
because of overdesigned facilities, as in the case of milk, meat, feed
concentrates, cotton and sugar. Price controls through market intervention
is exercised for selected products but the recent freeing of price controls
at the consumer level for milk and meat is expected to act as a needed
stimulant to production.
Public Policy
2.16      The Government is attempting to improve the financial performance
of the public sector by controlling expenditures and increasing tariffs of
public enterprises. The public investment program is designed to encourage
export production, particularly forestry and palm oil from the areas of
Olancho and the Aguan Valley where the agricultural frontier can still be
expanded.  Private investment is expected to recover some of its previous
dynamics on the basis of increased access to credit with the support of
external credits from international banks. As mentioned above (para 2.12),
the present Government is promoting effective land titling in addition to
policies to strengthen the agricultural sector, such as the development of
sound land use and watershed management practices; preparation of a new water
law; implementation of a new seed law; training of public agricultural staff,
and improvement of management personnel policies.
D. Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector
2.17      The Bank has helped develop Honduran agriculture with the Guayape
Rural Development Project that is proceeding well and four agricultural
credit projects, implemented by BCH. In addition to its lending, the Bank
has recently undertaken two studies I/ on the sector.
2.18      The First Livestock Credit Development Project had a total project
cost of US$5.2 million, of which US$2.6 million was provided by IDA Credit
179-HO; the project became effective in October 1970 and was fully disbursed
by January 1975, a year before the original closing date. The objective of
the project was to help diversify Honduran agriculture by increasing
livestock production and exports in addition to raising beef consumption.
Funds were lent to medium- and large-scale farmers to cover long-term needs
for beef and dairy development and working capital for fattening operations.
A PU headquartered in Tegucigalpa with three regional offices was set up in
1/   "Review of Selected Key Problems of the Agricultural Sector" (Green
Cover, October 28, 1981) and "An Inquiry into Rural Population, Small
Farmers and Agrarian Reform" (Gray Cover, January 14, 1982).



- 6 -
BCH to promote the project and control procedures.  Seven private banks
participated as financial intermediaries and made sizeable financial
contributions to the project (Table 2 shows both the number of subloans and
amounts financed while Table 3 snows the types of activity that were
financed).  The Project Perforaance Audit Report  (No. 1920) of February 21,
1978 showed that, compared to appraisal expectations, fewer farmers were
involved for larger amounts, less pasture improvement took place but a
greater number of cattle were involved; the project had increased production
but mostly by extensive means of production.
2.19       The Second Livestock Development Project had a total project cost
of US$11.0 milliorn, of which US$6.6 million was provided by IDA Credit
434-HO.  It became effective in January 1974 and was fully disbursed by the
end of 1979, a year after its original closing date. The objectives of the
first lending operation were expanded to encompass lending to smaller scale
livestock producers, including pig breeders. and to raunicipalities to
construct abattoirs. The project also provided for the hiring of four
livestock advisors; and for the training of PU staff. Nine private banks
participated as well as the National lDevelopment Bank. Changes were made to
the lending terms (Table 4), the main innovation being a 3% spread allowed to
BCH to help cover the PU costs. The Project Completion Report (dated May 3,
1982) showed that project implementation slowed down due to the environment
created by the Agrarian Reform Law as well as by a decline in the
international demand for beef. As in the previous project, only about half
the number of subloans expected at appraisal were financed, with a higher
percentage of the funds being used for buildings and pasture development than
expected. Despite. the slow disbursement, the broad objectives of the project
were achieved.
2.20      The First Agricultural Credit Project has an estimated total
project cost of US$20.0 million, of which US$14.0 million was provided by
IDA Credit 628-HO; the Credit became effective in December 1976 and by
March 31, 1983, all funds were fully committed and US$13.0 million was
actually disbursed. The objectives of this project are broader than those of
previouis projects, with subloans for on-farm investments being made available
to the cropping subsector for agro-iiadustries and for the purchase of heavy
agricultural machinery as well as to the livestock subsector. The project
also included funds for technical assistance to maintain the momentum of
agrarian reform by strengthening institutions such as MRN, INA, COHBANA and
the Pan-American Agricultural School and to provide full time technical staff
and credit to finance the rehabilitation of the Isletas banana plantation.
Funds were on-lent by 10 participating barks, including the National
Development Bank; the interest rate charged to sub-borrowers was increased
from 9 to 11% per annum.  Tne original funds for general credit activities
were disbursed in only three years. BCOH provided additional counterpart
funds amounting to about US$2.6 million.  Despite the quick disbursement of
the credit component, the slow implementation and disbursement of the
technical assistance components has resulted in t1hree extensions of the
project's closing date, the latest being to June 39, 1983,
2.21       The Second Agricultural Credit Project has an estimated project
cost of US$38.5 million, of which US$5.0 rmillion is provided by IDA Credit
1005-HO and US$20.0 million by IBRD Loan 1833-THO  the project became effec-
tive in September 1980 and is still under implementation (para 1.02). The
objective of the project is to provide long-term credit for farm development,



- 7 -
the purchase of agricultural machinery, and the construction of municipal
abattoirs. Funds were also provided for flood control and drainage works on
the Ulua River to allow for more banana plantations, the implementation of a
pilot forestry project, and various studies. The rediscounting percentage
for financial intermediaries was changed to encourage them to lend to
small-scale farmers, and a separate loan category for these farmers was
established to facilitate the monitoring of funds channeled to them. Interest
rates have been increased from 11% to 16% during implementation because of
the higher international rates that predominated during the last two years.
The disbursement of project funds is proceeding well, with 12 financial
intermediaries participating but lending to small-scale farmers is proving
difficult, mainly because they lack collateral. Of the 861 subloans made by
December 31, 1982, 380 went to small-scale farmers, accounting for about 26%
of the total investment funds on-lent. Lending has taken place for the
production of a wide array of commodities, including tobacco, maize,
sugarcane, cotton, citrus, oilpalm, bees, rabbits, shrimp, poultry, pigs and
goats, in addition to cattle. The level of arrears in BANADESA has risen
considerably and by October 30, 1982 39% of the principal and interest due
was still outstanding. Implementation of the non-credit components is
proceeding at a slower pace but is still satisfactory.
2.22      Over the past 12 years, there has been a gradual change in the
Bank's agricultural credit projects with regard to sub-borrowers, financial
intermediaries, lending terms, and activities. These changes are worth
noting, as they have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
project. First, sub-borrowers have changed, both in number and in economic
status, from 78 cattle ranchers to about 1,800 sub-borrowers, including
agrarian reform settlers. Second, the number of financial intermediaries has
grown from seven to 12, and the type of institutions participating has also
widened as BANADESA now is the most important institution because of both the
volume of funds on-lent and because of the emphasis on lending to small-scale
farmers. Third, there has been a great improvement in financial reporting by
FIs, thanks to guidance from BCH's Office of the Superintendency of Banks.
Fourth, the activities that are financed have changed, from exclusively
cattle ranching to investment in almost any productive enterprise (para
2.21), thus encouraging diversification. The PU has also changed: in staff
numbers, rising from two technicians to 34; in regional offices, going from
two to five; and in expertise ranging from strict agriculturalists to
economists, financial analysts and cooperative experts. This staff expertise
is due to training (in part undertaken at the Bank's Economic Development
Institute) and to the experience gained over time as there has been very
little turnover in personnel. These improvements in the PU's capacity have
enabled it to draft the Completion Report for the Second Livestock Credit
Project and to be primarily responsible for the preparation of the proposed
project.
III. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A. Monetary Policy
3.01      BCH was established in 1950 with the responsibility for formulating
and implementing monetary policy and supervising the banking system; it also
takes an active role in economic development, policy formulation, planning



- 8 -
and financing. 'BCH exercises the function of being the regulatory body for
the banking system through the Office of the Superintendency of Banks that
also undertakes external audits of projects financed by international banks,
including past and ongoing Bank agricultural credit projects. BCH is
regarded, both inside and outside Honduras, as professionally managed and
adequately staffied.
3.02      As the monetary authority, BCH determines credit policy and regu-
lates the flow of credit to the economy by:  (a) fixing minimum legal reserve
requirements on deposits; (b) determining rediscount facilities (mostly for
agricultural activities and export financing); (c) setting maximum interest
rates for lending and deposits; (d) fixing sector portfolio limits;
(e) determining limits for external debts; (f) conducting open market opera-
tions; and (g) setting exchange rates. Monetary policy in Honduras has
traditionally focused on: (a) maintaining the stability of the Lempira within
a system of free currency convertibility; (b) maintaining equilibrium in the
balance of payments; and (c) maintaining domestic inflation at a rate not
exceeding the US' level of inflation as the US is Honduras' main trading
partner.
3.03      As a result of a conservative monetary policy, the historical rate
of inflation in Honduras, as measured by the consumer price index, has been
low compared to that in many other Latin American countries. The US dollar-
Lempira exchange rate has been maintained at a 2:1 ratio for the last four
decades, and, despite the recent pressure on the exchange rate, the
Government plans to maintain the existing exchange rate with the support of
an IMF standby arrangement. The increase of the consumer price index
averaged 3.3% per annum between 1970 and 1973, but it rose to 13.9% per annum
between 1979 and 1981.  In 1980 inflation rose to 19% because of substan-
tially higher prices of imported goods and low basic grain production;
however, in 1981 and 1982 inflation abated to about 9%, as the production of
basic grains improved and international inflation slowed down.
3.04      BCH's policy requires that banks in Honduras presently have to
maintain a 30% reserve requirement (either in cash or Government bonds)
against both their domestic and foreign liabilities. To help channel funds
for productive activities, BCH has set a limit of 25% as the maximum share of
domestic trade and consumption in the loan funds of commercial and develop-
ment banks. However, most of the production credit is only for short-term
credit; almost all long-ternm credit for agriculture in Honduras stems from
Bank-financed agricultural credit projects.
3.05      Interest rates were modified infrequently in the 1960s, but since
the 1970s they have played an important role in monetary policy. Following
the trend in the international capital markets, in December 1982, BCH reduced
the interest rate to 17% per annum on short-term loans for production credit
that are financed through local resources; loans for basic grains production
have a special incentive rate of 14%. There is no limit on interest rates
for loans financed with foreign funds. The deposit rate has been left free
to fluctuate in accordance with market forces. Both loan and deposit
interest rates are reviewed quarterly in the light of domestic and foreign
financial market conditions in order to ensure a positive return in real
terms to domestic savers as well as to maintain the competitiveness of
domestic interest rates vis-a-vis comparable rates in foreign markets.



- 9 -
B. The Banking System
3.06      The banking system in Honduras consists of BCH, 15 commercial
banks, three development banks namely, BANADESA, the National Investment
Corporation (CONADI) and the Municipal Bank, as well as nine specialized
credit institutions that are mostly savings banks and loan institutions.
3.07      The commercial private banks (11 of which participate in the
ongoing agricultural credit project) operate 222 branches throughout the
country; in addition, BANADESA has 28 branches. The three largest commercial
banks -- Banco Atlantida, Bancahsa and Banco El Ahorro Hondureno -- accounted
for 44% of the total assets of the commercial banking sector, 50% of all
deposits mobilized, and 50% of the total time deposits and savings accounts
of the sector as of October 31, 1981. All commercial bank assets accounted
for 79% of the total assets of the banking sector at the end of 1981 and for
95% of total deposits.
C. Financing Agriculture
3.08      Private commercial banks usually account for about 70% of the funds
lent annually to agriculture; BANADESA accounts for the remainder. Both
commercial banks and BANADESA depend heavily on BCH's rediscounting facility
that is used almost exclusively for the financing of short-term credit.
Although the new loans financed through the Bank's agricultural credit
projects do not even amount to 10% of the total amount lent to agriculture
each year, they are almost the only available source of investment financing.
3.09      The present economic crisis that Honduras is facing (paras 2.01 and
2.02) has produced a shortage of funds that has resulted in a reduction of
the credit made available to agriculture. The main cropping and livestock
activities financed during 1976-81 were:
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
--------------(US$ million)------------
Total new credit granted for
crops and livestock                126    189    168    190    140    137
Coffee                                64    108      86      74      42     24
Sugarcane                              8      21      10     19      14     19
Basic grains                           9       8      11     12      16     20
Livestock                              17     17      20     31      26     24
Other                                 28      35      41     54      42     50
Despite the crop diversification that has begun to take place in Honduras,
the increase in the financing of activities other than coffee, has not been
sufficient to compensate for the decline in the financing of coffee that
occurred because coffee prices dropped after 1977. However, the Bank's
previous agricultural credit projects (Table 3) and particularly the ongoing
Second Agricultural Credit Project (para. 2.21) have been specially important
in promoting the diversification of agricultural production. The proposed
project would continue with this objective.



- 10 -
D. National Bank of Agricultural Development
3.10      The National Bank of Agricultural Development (BANADESA) was
created from the National Development Bank in March 1980, as an autonomous
Government institution with an authorized capital of L 75 million.
BANADESA's Board of Directors is made up of the Ministers of MRN (Chairman),
Economy, Finance and Public Credit; the Executive Secretaries of the Superior
Council of Economic Planning and INA; the President of BCH; representatives
of the associations of farmers, cattlemen and the peasant organizations; and
BANADESA's Executive President.  The Board decides credit policies and annual
budgets and approves the naming of senior staff.  A smaller Executive
Committee, made up of selected Board members, has the power to approve major
loans, interest rates and the opening and closing of branches. The three
main managers of the bank are in charge of Operations, Administration and
Finance; legal counsel and the head of Special Studies also report directly
to the Executive! President.  In October 1982, the bank had a total staff of
nearly 1,000 employees, 40% of whom were based in the Tegucigalpa
headquarters.
3.11      The Government did not immediately arm the new i-nstitution with
adequate financing because of the lack of resources.  Finally in July 1982,
the National CorLgress authorized BANADESA's gradual capitalization program
(1982-96) with L. 114.9 million to cover: the previously authorized
capitalization of L 75.0 million, an inherited deficit from the National
Development Bank of L 27.8 million and various portfolio losses of L 12.1
million. At theu same time Congress authorized the Government to become the
guarantor of a loan given by BCH to BANADESA for L 107 million under
favorable terms to help reschedule the loans BANADESA had with BCH itself,
3.12      BANADESA's income statements show that it has suffered losses since
it was founded; its losses for the last nine months in 1980 amounted to L 7.1
million and in 1.981 losses rose to L 16.3 even though no allowance was made
for unpaid sublcans that fell due that year. The negative equity BANADESA
shows on its balance sheet results from operating losses that in turn are
mostly because of high administrative costs and a very poor rate of recovery
of its loan portfolio.
3.13      BANADESA's loan portfolio as of December 31, 1981 totalled L 143,9
million.  Current loan portfolio, without arrears, amounted to 47% of the
portfolio, arreaLrs exceeding 12 months amounted to 23%, arrears of less than
12 months amounted to 15%, rescheduled loans to 9% and loans with partial
arrears to 6% of the portfolio. Partial unaudited data for the first six
months of 1982 indicates that loan collection has not improved. Several
factors contribuLte to BANADESA's extremely low rate of loan recuperation:
inadequate drafting and supervision of farm developmeLnt plans, lengthy
subloan processing, poor field supervision of the use of the funds provided
to sub-borrowers and insufficient collection efforts.
3.14      BANADESA's past loan recuperation performances under Bank-financed
projects has not. been much better than that of the overall institution; 55%
of the principal and 29% of the interest payments; 39% of the amounts due on
Bank-financed suLbprojects was outstandinng as of October 30, 1982 (para 5.O8).



- 11 -
3.15      BANADESA's problems are not new; the previous National Development
Bank, despite costly studies financed by international donors was an equally
weak institution that was dismembered with the hope of creating a new, strong
institution. This did not occur; BANADESA is inadequately run and in serious
financial disarray. However, BANADESA is the main source of funds for
on-lending to small-scale farmers and in that light its participation under
the project, within conditions that were agreed upon at negotiations, is
possible and desirable. The proposed strategy and suggested conditionality
for dealing with BANADESA is outlined in paragraphs 5.07 to 5.10.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The project would consist of:
(a)    a nationwide credit program to finance, through rediscounting
facilities, investments in rural areas for both on- and off-farm
activities;
(b)    the incremental short-term credit needed to complement long-term
investments;
(c)    incremental PU administration costs; and
(d)    training for PU staff, the financial intermediaries'(FIs)
staffs,including BANADESA, and farmers.
B. Detailed Features
Credit Program
4.02      The credit funds are expected to be committed by the banking system
in three years and disbursed in four. Most of the funds would be used to
finance farm development, but funds could be used to finance any rural
activities, including non-farm activities such as milk collection centers or
cottage brick-making. Participating FIs would bear the credit risk and would
provide part of the funds. About 40% of the total credit funds are expected
to be lent to small-scale farmers (para 5.19), most of whom would be settlers
in agrarian reform groups. Cost details of the credit components are shown
in Table 5.
4.03      Specific investments would consist of items such as pasture devel-
opment, fencing, water supply, farm buildings, machinery and breeding
animals. Complementary short-term capital would be provided under the
project to finance the seasonal production costs such as seed, fertilizer and
labor that are related to the investment plan. Most of the lending is
expected to follow the pattern established under the ongoing projects with



- 12 -
different average subloan sizes according to the type of sub-borrower.  For
example in 1982 small-scale independent farmers spent about US$15,000 on
investments and about US$5,000 for their first-year short-term credit
requirements, however, small-scale farmers who borrowed as a collective group
usually required about US$60,000 for investments and nearly US$30,000 for
their short-tern capital needs. Larger scale farmers, on average, spent
about US$50,000 on investments and required some US$15,000 for short-term
capital.
Project Unit
4.04      The PU in BCH would administer the program.  Three new staff posts
would be created at headquarters: a Deputy Director, an Extension Specialist,
and a Training Coordinator. All PU staff would receive a better benefits
package and one that would be comparable to that received by other BCH
staff. A new office would be started in Juticalpa, Department of Olancho.
A computer would be installed at PU headquarters to assist with financial
analysis, monitoring and evaluation, administration, accounting, and the
control of subloan repayments. Ten vehicles would be purchased for use by
the PU staff. Consultant services would be used by the PU, as described in
paragraph 5.04. Cost details of the PU component are shown in Table 6.
Training
4.05      PU staff, who are usually agriculturalists, are expected to require
training mostly in finance and banking. FIs' agricultural loan officers
would be trained in credit analysis and project appraisal; BANADESA's
agricultural loan officers would, in addition, be trained in loan collection
while branch managers would be provided with general banking courses.
Training for farmers would be geared toward small-scale settlers and would
cover bookkeeping, credit management, administration, accounting and
cooperative management. Cost details of the training component are shown in
Table 7.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.06      The total project cost is estimated at US$73.9 million, of which
about 33% represents foreign exchange. As most of the goods and services
expected to be f-inanced under the project are exempt from taxes, there are no
significant taxes included in the project cost. Costs are based on September
1982 prices; price contingencies have been allowed for the PU and training
components and are based on international inflation figures of 8% in 1983,
7.5% in 1984 and 7% in 1985; the domestic inflation figures used differ only
in 1983, when 9% was used. The summary of the project cost is shown on the
following page:



- 13 -
Project Cost
Foreign    Baseline
Project Components                       Local    Foreign        Total    Local    Foreign         Total    Exchange          Cost
…               -i(L   ion)               (USS million)       -…-   (F7=iOf)
1.   Credit Program
A. Long-term Investments:
Small farms                               23.6       13.2         36.8^      11.8         6.6        18.4         36
Other farms                               42.0       20.6-        62.6       21.0        10.3        31.3         33
Non-farm investments                        0.9       2.8          3.7        0.4         1.4         1.8         72
Subtotal                             66.5       36.6        103.1       33.2        18.3        51.5         36         70
B. Sbort-term Credit:
Small farms                               11.6-       5.6         17.2        5.8         2.8         8.6         33
Other farms                               14.2        4.0         18.2        7.1         2.0         9.1         22
Non-farm investments                        1.6       0.2          1.8        0.8         0.1         0.9         22          -
Subtotal                              27.4       9.8         37.2       13.7          4.9       18.6         27         26
II.  Project Unit                                         2.9        1.6          4.5        1.4        0.8         2.2         35          3
III. Training                                             1.2        0.8          2.0       0.6         0.4         1.0         34          1
IV.  Project Cost (Baseline)                             98.0       48.8       146.8       48.9        24.4        73.3         33        100
V.   Price Contingencies                                  0.8        0.4          1.2        0.4         0.2         0.6        33          -
VI.  Total Project Cost                                  98.8       49.2        148.0       49.3       24.6        73.9          33         -
Front-end fee on Bank loan (0.251)                        -          0.4          0.4       -           0.2         0.2        100          -
Total Financing Required                                 98.8       49.6        148.4      49.3        24.8        74.1          34         -
4.07              The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million to
the Government of Honduras including the capitalized front-end fee of about
US$113,000. The Bank loan would finance all the estimated foreign exchange
costs and about US$20.2 million of the local costs, adding up to about 61% of
total project costs. The financing of local costs is justified on country
economic grounds. Sub-borrowers would contribute about US$8.8 million (12%)
of total project cost and banks would finance about US$7.7 million (10%) and
BCH about US$12.6 million (17%) of total project costs. Project financing is
shown below:
Pro3ect  Financinc
Pro ject             Financial
Project Components               Beneficiaries            Intermediaries             BCH                Bank             Total Investment
US$a                      U$m                     US$        Z      TSm $      I         US$ m 
I.   Credit Program
A. Long-term Investments
Small farms                1.8         10          2.5       13.5         0.8        4.5       13.3     72         18.4       25
Other farms                6.7         21          4.9        16.0         1.2       4.0       18.5      59        31.3       43
Non-farm investments    0.3            20          0.3       16.0          0.1       4.0        1.1      60          1.8       3
B.  Short-term Credit:
Small farms                -            -         -           -            4.3      50          4.3     50          8.6       12
Other farms                -            -         -           -           4.5       50          4.6     50          9.1       12
Non-farm investments   -                -          -          -           0.5       50          0.4      50         0.9        1
It.  Project Unit                       -            -          -           -           0.6      30          1.6      70          2.2       3
}1}. Training                           -           _           -         _             0.3      30          0.7      70         1.0        1
IV.  Project Cost (Baseline)            8.8         12          7.7        10          12.3      17         44.5      61        73.3      100
V.   Price Contingencies                 -           -          _           -           0.3      50          0.3      50          0.6       -
VI.  Total Project Cost                 8.8         12          7.7        10          12.6      17         44.8      61         73.9       -
Front-end fee on Bank loan                           -                -                -                     0.2    100           0.2
Total Financing Required                8.8                     7.7                    12.6                 45.0      _          74.1



- 14 -
D. Procurement
4.08       Both the investment and the seasonal inputs to be purchased through
the credit component would be for a widely dispersed number of farmers to
cover a variety of activities and therefore would not be suitable for
procurement through bulk purchasing or international competitive bidding.
Foreign firms are represented in Honduras, and all procurement undertaken by
sub-borrowers would be done through normal commercial channels, which are
adequate.  Whenever practicable, but for all purchases of US$50,000 or more,
the FIs would require that sub-borrowers obtain quotations from at least
three suppliers and confirmation of the order would require the prior
approval of the financial intermediary. The PU would assist the farming
community by publishing a six-month price list of key farm inputs and
investments that would be distributed through the FIs.
4.09       Goods:  Vehicles and equipment for the PU totalling about
US$270,000 equivalent would be grouped to the extent practicable to increase
competition in bidding; packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.  Items that cannot be grouped to form packages of more than
IJS$100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with current procedures within BCH that are acceptable
to the Bank.
4.10       Services:  Consultants, most of whom would be internationally
recruited, are estimated to cost US$0.5 million (at a cost of approximately
US$10,000 per man-month including travel and subsistence expenses). All
terms-of-reference and draft contracts for consultants would be subject to
prior review by the Bank.
4.11      Contract Review:  All bidding packages and contracts for goods
estimated to cost over US$100,000 would be subject to Bank review prior to
their awarding.  This would mean Bank review of a total of two contracts for
goods.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that procurement procedures
to be followed would be as outlined in this and preceding paragraphs.
E. Disbursement
4.12      Disbursements for the credit program would be made against State-
ments of Expenditures (SOE) as has been the case in the past. The documenta-
tion supporting the SOE would be kept by the PU and made available to the
Bank during project supervision. Disbursements requested for all other
components would be supported by standard documentation that has been
satisfactory in the past.
4.13       Disbursements for subloans would be for 69% of the amounts previ-
ously disbursed by FIs. Disbursements for training, vehicles and equipment,
and consultants would be made at 100% of foreign expenditures and 58% of
local expenditures. Disbursements for materials and services would be made
at 58% of local expenditures. Assurances that disbursements procedures would
be followed in accordance with this and the preceding paragraph were obtained
at negotiations.



- 15 -
4.14      Commitments are estimated to begin in July 1983 and cover a three-
year period; disbursements would cover a four-year period. Experience under
the last two projects indicates that the disbursement of credit components
was better than the average disbursement profile for agricultural credit
projects in Latin America; this has been taken into account when estimating
the disbursement schedule (Table 8).
V. PROJECT IMPLEIENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Executive Committee
5.01      Under the ongoing project the Executive Committee, to which the
PU Director reports, has proved to have too many members. Under the proposed
project the Executive Committee, formed by December 31, 1983, would be
composed of senior representatives of BCH (Chairman), BANADESA, MRN, and the
Honduran Association of Banking Institutions. The committee would monitor
the PU's budget and the lending program and approve the annual evaluation
report as well as the auditor's report (para 5.38). Assurances on the
Executive Committee's membership and tasks were obtained at negotiations.
Project Unit
5.02      The Project Unit (para 1.01) responsible for the ongoing Second
Agricultural Credit Project that has performed well in the past would be
responsible for project implementation (see organization chart). Present
staff at Headquarters includes the PU Director, an economist in charge of
monitoring and evaluation and two financial analysts in charge of all
financial relations with financial intermediaries. There are five regional
offices -- Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula, Choluteca, La Ceiba and Santa Rosa de
Copan -- that are staffed by agriculturalists. In addition, the San Pedro
Sula office has one staff member who specializes in cooperative financing,
and the La Ceiba office has a veterinarian. Technical staff in the PU now
total 34 and only three new staff positions would be required, namely, a
Deputy Director needed because of the increase both in staff numbers and in
credit demand; an Extension Specialist (see para 5.25) and a Training
Coordinator (para 5.27). Draft terms of reference for the Extension
Specialist and Training Coordinator are in Annex 1. It would be a condition
of effectiveness that the three new posts had been filled.
5.03      The PU would strengthen its activities in the Department of
Olancho, which has become more accessible due to the upgrading of a major
road from Talanga to Catacamas (financed under the Bank's Seventh Highway
Project, Loans 1341-HO and 1342-HO). Initially, a project officer from the
PU would establish a small office in Juticalpa, capital of Olancho, that
would depend administratively on the Tegucigalpa regional office. If and
when BCH establishes a branch office in Juticalpa, the PU's office would
become a full-fledged regional office.
5.04      The PU has an information processing system that helps management
monitor project activities. This has been maintained manually and has been
satisfactory but limited in scope. Bank supervision missions of the Second



- 16 -
Agricultural Credit Project have suggested the development of a more complete
computerized managerial information system for the PU to give the PU Director
easier and more timely access to information to allow for better planning,
given the recent increase in credit demand and in the PU's size. The other
objective would be to include accounting and a portfolio management system.
A projected cash flow is shown in Table 9. Funds have been included under
the proposed project for consultants to help design and maintain computer
systems, the training of PU staff in computer techniques, and the purchase of
computer soft and hardware.  In addition consultants may be needed to assist
the PU in drafting legislation to legalize the use of chattel mortgages by
banks and to assist in the institutional improvements of BANADESA referred to
in paragraph 5.10. Under terms-of-reference, previously cleared by the Bank,
short-term consultants would be engaged by the PU as the need arises during
project implementation.
5.05      Responisibility for loan processing would be further decentralized;
PU staff would gradually reduce the close supervision exercised in the past
on the preparation of the farm development plans by FIs agricultural loan
officers, who have developed an adequate capability that would be further
enhanced with training. The latter would now prepare the farm development
plans by themse]Lves and obtain their own bank's clearance on the sub-
borrower's credit rating prior to submitting the farm development plan to the
PU for approval. The disbursement of subloans would now be left to the FI's
discretion and the FI would also be responsible for supervising the use of
the funds by the sub-borrower. PU staff would undertake field inspections to
ensure that the FIs' control was effective.
Financial Intermediaries (FIs)
5.06      As under past projects, FIs interested in participating in the
project would have to have staff capable of appraising agricultural invest-
ment loans and have acceptable accounting, audited records and an adequate
network of branch offices. Each FI would sign a project administration
conttact with BCH that would stipulate the rediscounting arrangements.  It
would be a condition of effectiveness that at least four project administra-
tion contracts between BCH and FIs, one of which would be BANADESA's, had
been signed.
National Bank of Agricultural Development
5.07      The National Bank of Agricultural Development (BANADESA) is the
main on-lending bank for small-scale farmers. Of the 380 subloans made under
the Second Agricultural Credit Project for small-scale farmers by the end of
December 1982, :L99 were made by BANADESA. BANADESA is more attractive to
small-scale farmers because, being a State-run development bank, it has lower
loan collateral requirements. Unfortunately, it has also acquired a reputa-
tion for being more lenient with late payers than most commercial banks; this
has been the major cause of the poor financial performance of the institution
(paras 3.12 and 3.13). However, measures, part of which have already been
initiated, would be taken to improve BANADESA's performance as an FI
operating under the Bank-financed agricultural credit projects. In addition,
the Bank would, during the implementation of the proposed project, begin a
dialogue with BANADESA's management to address its overall institutional and
portfolio problems.



- 17 -
5.08      BANADESA has begun to send to the Bank reports on subloan
recuperation as requested at appraisal. The first report shows that as of
October 30, 1982, 39% of the principal and interest payments due on the
Bank-financed portfolio were still outstanding. The second report shows that
as of December 31, 1982, some improvement had been made but no account was
given of the subloans that had been rescheduled-. Both reports show that on
the Bank-financed portfolio the main subloan delinquencies are from subloans
made to small-scale farmers? groups belonging to the Agrarian Reform (para
2.12). In order to ensure that BANADESA would improve loan recuperation of
the Bank-financed subloans, it would prepare a plan of action, to be approved
by the Bank before being implemented. The plan would clearly specify loan
recuperation targets and a timetable for reaching the targets. Loan
recuperation would be measured as a ratio between the payments of principal
and interest actually made for a given period and the payments of principal
and interest due during the same period. Rescheduled loans that fell due in
the reported period would be considered delinquent for that period (an
exception would be made for the first audited report).  BANiADESA would
continue to furnish quarterly reports on loan arrears and in addition
BANADESA's Bank-financed accounts would be audited every six months by BCH
within 60 days of the close of the semester.  If BANADESA were not able to
fulfill the agreed plan of action, BCH would stop rediscounting subloans and
the Bank would have the option of suspending disbursements on the whole loan
until the targets had been met.  It would be a condition of loan
effectiveness that BANADESA had furnished to the Bank a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the improvement of the recuperation rate of
Bank-financed subloans.
5.09      Since October 1982, BANADESA has begun to take positive steps to
improve its operations related to the Bank-financed agricultural credit
projects. With the assistance of two experienced staff members from BCH's,
PU who were seconded to BANADESA, a small coordination unit (CU) is in the
process of being created. The CU is to be managed by an experienced BANADESA
employee who would have qualifications, experience and terms of employment
satisfactory to the Bank and would report directly to BANADESA's Bankina
Manager. The CU, which is to be located at BANADESA's headquarters, would
work at the branch level with the loan officers responsible for Bank-financed
subloans. Under the project, the individual responsibility of loan officers
would be increased. Each loan officer would be given a specific portfolio of
subloans for which he would be responsible for subloan processing,
disbursement, supervision of the use of the funds and most importantly
subloan collection.  It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the
CU had been established, was satisfactorily managed, and that the job
description of loan officers had been redefined as established above.
5.10      To begin to address BANADESA's overall institutional and portfolio
problems, BANADESA's project administration contract would, in addition to
the requirements established in paragraphs 5.06, 5.08 and 5.09, also require
that BANADESA undertake, by mid-1984, a major review of its organizational
and financial position with particular emphasis on financial programming,
overall lending procedures including the use of guarantees and the granting
of credit for non-agricultural purposes, portfolio management staffing and
training.  For this purpose, the results of previous studies _  would be
taken into account. In addition, BANADESA would also prepare by mid-1984 a
plan of action for a progressive improvement in subloan recuperation of its
2/   Such as "Agricultural Credit:  Analysis and Recommendations" by Coopers
and Lybrand.



- 18 -
overall portfolio.  BANADESA would discuss both the findings of the review
and the plan of action with the Bank and thereafter steps would have to be
taken by BANADESA to implement the agreed recommendations. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations on the undertaking by BANADESA of both the review
and the plan of action.
B. Lending Procedures
Flow of Funds
5.11      The Government would pass on to BCH, that would bear the foreign
exchange risk, the full amount of the loan under the same lending terms as
obtained from the Bank in accordance with a subsidiary loan agreement to be
signed between the Government and BCH . Rediscounted loans from BCH to FIs
would be governed by the conditions of the project administration contract to
be signed between BCH and each Fl (paragraphs 5.15 through 5.18). Finally,
FIs would lend to sub-borrowers under the conditions detailed in paragraphs
5.19 through 5.24. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the
Government and BCH had signed the subsidiary contract mentioned above.
Lending Procedures between the Bank and the Government
5.12      The Government of Honduras, would cause the implementing agency,
BCH, to agree to: (a) maintain the existing revolving funds of L 10.0 million
for credit operations and L 2.5 million for PU expenditures created to cover
the time lag incurred with Bank disbursements; (b) provide adequate
counterpart funds; and (c) agree not to change or waive any of the lending
procedures and conditions detailed below without prior Bank approval. The
Bank and BCII would, at the request of either and in joint agreement, review
the lending terms and conditions during the execution of the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations to ensure the compliance of the
agreements mentioned above and the need to review lending terms and
conditions from time to time.
5.13      The approval of investment plans by the Bank would be necessary for
all investment subloans of US$200,000 equivalent or above. Similarly,
without prior approval by the Bank, an investor would not be entitled to
borrow long-term funds in excess of US$200,000 equivalent including the total
of the value of previous subloans, or fractions thereof in the case of
partnerships, made under any previous Bank Group loans or credits.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.14      Lending procedures and conditions covering, inter alia, the
following subjects detailed below, would now be established in a credit
manual to be drafted by the PU, for approval by the Bank, and to be
distributed to FIs:
(a)  the preparation of farm development plans, the methodology  to be
used for subloan appraisal, including the application of a minimum
financial rate-of-return criterion;
(b)  definitions of the three types of beneficiary (small-scale,
large-scale and other farmers), sub-borrower eligibility and
previous credit performance, subloan eligibility criteria,
sub-borrower and FIs contributions, interest and rediscount rates
and lending terms and conditions;



- 19 -
(c) subloan disbursements, investment control, loan delinquencies and
penalties, and supervision by the PU;
(d)  guidelines for providing technical assistance; and
(e) accounting and reporting requirements of FIs.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that a credit manual had been
produced and was approved by the Bank.
Lending Procedures between BCH and FIs
5.15      The analysis for subloan appraisal would be simplified vis-a-vis
prior projects. For subloans of US$35,000 equivalent or less, the PU would
develop representative farm models for various types of investment sub-
projects that would be used as a guide to help expedite the preparation of
farm development plans and of financial rate-of-return analysis and the
processing and approval of subloans by the PU staff.  Subloans for more than
US$35,000 would require the detailed appraisal that is used presently and
consists of the following documents: a credit request, an investment proposal
consisting of a description of the project, a detailed investment plan
showing all the sources of financing, a specific herd development projection
if relevant, a cash flow projection, and a financial rate-of-return
analysis. In the future, because of heavy past loan deliquency on subloans
to groups of farmers, an assessment of the group's managerial capacity would
be undertaken by the Fl's staff who would, in such cases, be guided by PU
staff. The analysis would review the individuals responsible for managerial
decisions, the bookkeeping practices and the projections for the use of each
year's revenue. Assurances that the first 10 subloans to groups would be
submitted to the Bank for review were obtained at negotiations.
5.16      Rediscounting procedures and spreads between BCH and FIs would be
the same as those used under the ongoing project (Table 4).  Subloans would
be denominated in lempiras and would finance 85% of subloans granted to
small-scale farmers and 80% to other borrowers.  To encourage FIs to complete
subloan approval expeditiously, BCH would charge a commitment fee of 1% per
annum of the subloan beginning 60 days after the PU had approved an
investment plan and continuing until the date of signature of the
corresponding subloan. Interest paid by the FI to BCH on the outstanding
principal of the subsidiary loan would be fixed at a rate 1.5 points above
the rate the Bank charges on the principal of its loan for interest periods
commencing during the semester in which the subloan was approved, rounded to
the nearest half point. 3/ Principal and interest on each rediscounted
subloan would be repayable to BCH as the repayments of the principal and
interest of the corresponding subloan fell due. FIs would assume the credit
risk, but the Government would finalize details on the establishment of a
mechanism to enable BCH to restore the liquidity of an FI that had been
adversely affected by the replacement of land, held as collateral, by
Agrarian Reform bonds issued in connection with the expropriation of such
land under the Agrarian Reform Law. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that BCH would formalize such a mechanism by March 31, 1984.
5.17      A project administration contract, spelling out the provisions of
the previous paragraphs would be signed by BCH and an Fl before disbursements
would be made for subloans by that FI. BCH would be entitled to terminate
3/ E.g., if the Bank's rate were 10.97%, the ongoing rate to be
charged by the BCH to FI would be 12.5%.



- 20 -
any project administration contract if the FI: (a) failed to make due and
punctual payment to BCH of any amount due; or (b) failed to undertake in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and BCH, any other obligation specified in
the project administration contract.  It would be a condition of disbursement
of Bank funds for rediscounts of a particular Fl that BCH had signed a
project administration contract with that FI.
5.18       Funds repaid to BCH by FIs would be used to service the Bank loan
and for additional lending under the PU for similar purposes. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Lending Procedures between FIs and Sub-borrowers
5.19       Subloans would be made to any person or group with a sound invest-
ment plan for the development of farm or non-farm rural activities outside
the urban limits of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, subject to the terms and
conditions speciLfied in the project administration contract. A small-scale
farmer would be defined as one who derives at least 75% of the family income
from farming activities and has net assets (excluding assets financed under
the project) not: exceeding the equivalent of US$40,000 and/or is a benefi-
ciary of the National Agrarian Reform Program, as defined in Chapter I, Title
IV of the Agrarian Reform Law. The aggregate ceiling for investment subloans
under the terms applicable to small-scale farmers would be US$35,000; for
groups of small--scale farmers, the maximum would be the equivalent of
US$35,000 multiplied by the number of members of the group. A large-scale
farmer would be defined as one who has net assets exceeding the equivalent of
US$400,000. The ceilings for lending to beneficiaries other than small-scale
farmers would be those expressed in paragraph 5.13.
5.20      All subloans would be denominated in lempiras and would not finance
more than 90%, 70% and 80% of the value of an approved investment plan in the
case of small-scale farmers, large-scale farmers and other beneficiaries,
respectively. Investment plans could include sub-borrower's contribution in
labor or in kind. Short-term subloans would be made only for complementary
working capital needs associated with the long-term investments to be
financed. There would be 100% rediscount by BCH for short-term subloans made
to all farmers in keeping with existing rediscounting procedures used by BCH.
5.21       Interest on the outstanding balance of a subloan would be paid by
sub-borrowers at a rate of 5.5 points above the rate the Bank charges on the
principal of its loan for interest periods commencing during the semester in
which the subloan was approved, rounded to the nearest half point, inclusive
of any applicable commissions, taxes, charges or fees. At present this would
mean an interest rate of 16.5% that would be positive, as the inflation rate
in Honduras for 1983 is projected to be 9% and in later years to equal that
of the international inflation (para 4.06).  Since the market is not
sophisticated enough for variable interest rates at this time, the rate for
an individual subloan would be fixed for the entire period of amortization.
5.22       Repayment terms would reflect the capacity and timing of the
investment to generate sufficient net revenues in the cash flow projections
of the investment plan. Investment subloans would be made for a period of at
least 18 months and for not more than 12 years (including a maximum of five
years grace period). Short-term credit subloans would not exceed 18 months.
Subloans could be prematurely repaid without penalty.



- 21 -
5.23      Fees for private consultants used for technical assistance would be
allowed to be included as an investment item up to the value of 5% of the
total value of the investment plan unless otherwise authorized by the PU
Director; in addition, the cost of land titling could also be included up to
the same ceiling.
5.24      FIs would be permitted to charge a penalty fee on arrears of
interest and principal equal to the highest interest rate allowed by BCH
within the banking system; in addition a 2% interest fee on the principal
outstanding would be charged for loan collection expenses. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations on the terms and conditions of lending to
sub-borrowers as described in paragraphs 5.19 through 5.24.
C. Technical Assistance and Training
Technical Assistance
5.25      The project would promote and coordinate technical assistance for
sub-borrowers, using the institutions that already exist in this field (paras
2.12 and 2.14). The PU would not directly provide technical assistance, but
would ensure that sub-borrowers had access to technical assistance through
the use of MRN, INA or private consultants. To carry out this work, a small
team of technical assistance officers would be formed within the PU, consist-
ing of the Extension Specialist at headquarters and officers in the regional
offices. No extra staff posts for extension work other than that of the
specialist are necessary as there already exists a three-person extension
unit that works out of the San Pedro Sula office; however, staff may have to
be reallocated within the country and cover more than one regional office.
5.26      The Extension Specialist and officers would not undertake super-
vision of lending activities and would strictly concentrate on technical
assistance. The Extension Specialist would report directly to the PU
Director and the technical assistance officers would report to the Specialist
but their administrative chief would be the Regional Chief where they were
based. The technical assistance officers would have access to a petty cash
fund to help defray the recurrent costs of extension agencies. Technical
assistance officers would also be able to provide advice on suitable
agriculturalists that could be used as private consultants to help farmers.
Some of the second-tier cooperatives of small-scale farmers and the regional
cooperatives are interested in providing technical assistance to their
members and technical assistance officers would give top priority to
assisting these organizations in forming their own staff for such work.
Training
5.27      The post of a Training Coordinator would be created within the PU
at headquarters, and he would report to the PU Director. The Training
Coordinator would identify and select relevant training institutions in
Honduras and abroad and nominate appropriate candidates for the courses in
consultation with management of the institutions to which they belonged.
Training would be provided to PU staff, FI agricultural loan officers,
BANADESA's staff, and small-scale farmers, mostly beneficiaries from agrarian
reform schemes. It would be a condition of effectiveness that a training
program for the first year had been designed by the PU and approved by the
Bank.



- 22 -
5.28      PU staff in the past has built up expertise in agricultural tech-
nology and project analysis and it would now be gradually trained in banking
and finance.  Overseas courses on these two subjects would be provided to the
five regional chiefs and their deputies. Credit analysis courses would be
given to all staf'f while computer courses would be provided to the financial
analysts, economists, and Deputy Chief. Every year a staff member from the
Office of the Superintendency of Banks, which audits the FIs' accounts as
well as the project's, would be sent overseas for an auditing course to
upgrade skills. PU staff members that joined in 1982 or later would be
provided with project appraisal courses in Honduras. The persons chosen for
the new staff positions of Training Coordinator and Extension Specialist
would be expected to go overseas on relevant study tours once they were
familiar with the PU3 and their newly created roles. Finally, given the
recently increased number of staff, both the PU Director and his deputy would
go on management courses abroad.
5.29      Training for FIs' agricultural loan officers would consist of
courses on project appraisal and credit analysis. BANADESA's agricultural
loan officers would be given the same courses separately, considering their
large number, as well as a course on loan recuperation. BANADESA's branch
managers would be given general banking courses in Honduras under the aegis
of the project. The main subjects to be covered would be: staff management,
portfolio analysis, credit and project analysis, and collection procedures.
Courses would be short and frequent and would be tailor-made for the
institution.
5.30      A major training program to strengthen the administrative, mana-
gerial and accounting capacity of both first- and second-tier small-scale
farmer cooperatives to promote the effective use of credit would also be
undertaken. About 190 first-tier groups would have access to the courses as
well as an estimated four second-tier cooperatives. There would be three
types of courses offered by the training institutions: basic, intermediate,
and advanced. The basic-level course, to be offered to farmer groups in
their place of work or residence, would motivate participants to study their
own group as an enterprise, and would attempt to elicit a commitment from
members to improve their situation through the implementation of a modest
action plan. The course would also cover simple bookkeeping and credit
utilization. Courses would be given on an iterative basis three times in the
first year, two in the second; and once in the third year of the group's
participation in the credit program. Intermediate level courses would be
aimed only at beneficiaries with management responsibility within the group
such as treasurers and finance secretaries, with participants being selected
in agreement with the cooperative during the basic course. Courses would
take place at INA's existing regional training centers and would cover
subjects such as administration, accounting and management development.
Advanced level training in organizational management, financial analysis and
accounting would be given to managers of second-tier and regional coopera-
tives to assist them in improving the technical assistance that the tier
organization would be capable of giving the cooperatives.



- 23 -
D. Management Information System, Evaluation and Reporting
MIanagement Information System
5.31      To date, the PU has been sufficiently small to allow good manage-
ment without a structured information system; however, with the increase of
staff in 1982, the three new staff posts that would be created under the pro-
posed project, and the increased need for planning by management, a more
formalized information system would be needed. Short progress reports would
be written every quarter by Regional Chiefs, the Technical Assistance
Specialist, the Senior Financial Analyst, and the Training Coordinator for
Project Management. These reports would fall due one month before the
project's overall quarterly progress report and would be incorporated into
the quarterly report that would continue to be prepared by the project econo-
mist in charge of monitoring and evaluation.
Evaluation
5.32      The PU's monitoring and evaluation unit would evaluate on an annual
basis the physical and technical progress of a sample of about 5% of the
sub-borrowers. These sub-borrowers, for whom an ex-ante profile would have
been established before they invested, would continue to be evaluated both
technically and socio-economically after the period of subloan disbursement
until they had completed the payment of their subloan. The sub-borrowers
would be chosen for evaluation, stratified by category of sub-borrowers,
region and farm enterprise by the monitoring and evaluation unit at the stage
of subloan approval. A record of each evaluation undertaken would be kept
and a summary would be sent to the Bank in the PU's annual report (5.34).
Reporting
5.33      The quarterly progress report under past projects, has been
consistently sent to the Bank in a timely fashion. The report would contain
information on the activities undertaken that quarter and would also show the
planned work program for the PU and training components including the hiring
of consultants.
5.34      In addition to BANADESA's quarterly reports on loan arrears (para
5.08), the following reports would be made available for project managemment
and the Bank:
(a) quarterly progress reports, to be received by the Bank two months
after the close of the quarter;
(b) annual evaluation report that summarizes both the progress of the
project and of the evaluated investments (para 5.32), to be
received by February 28 each year;
(c) annual audited financial statements on the project's accounts,
to be received by April 30 each year (para 5.38); and
(d) draft project completion report, to be received no later than four
months after the loan's closing date.



- 24 -
5.35      Assuranc:es were obtained at negotiations that reporting require-
ments would be complied with as described in the paragraphs above.
E. Accounts and Auditing
5.36      In addition to BANADESA's six-monthly audited reports on loan
arrears (para 5.08), the PU would continue to establish and maintain separate
project accounts for the proposed project in accordance with sound and
consistent accounting principles.  Each FI would establish and maintain
separate project accounts and keep any detailed records deemed necessary by
BCH and especially the Office of the Superintendency of Banks to reflect at
all times the financial transactions in respect of the project.
5.37      The project accounts and related supplementary financial informa-
tion of the PU would be audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
standards by auditors of good standing appointed by the BCH and acceptable to
the Bank. The scope of each annual audit examination would be sufficient to
enable the auditors to express an opinion as to whether or not the project's
annual balance sheet, income statement, statement of sources and applications
of funds and supplementary financial information fairly present the financial
position of the project. The auditors would also be required to provide a
specific opinion on the accuracy of statements of expenditure which had been
submitted to the Bank.
5.38      With regard to the FIs financial reporting, the basic financial
statements, together with an independent auditor's opinion on compliance by
each Fl with the financial and accounting clauses of the Loan and Project
Agreement and its project administration contract with BCH, would be for-
warded to the Bank through the PU. A statement of the auditing requirements
would be incorporated in the project administration contracts to be signed
between the FIs and BCH. The underlying basic annual financial statements
would be prepared using the accrual basis of accounting and would consist of
a balance sheet, income statement, statement of sources, and applications of
funds and reporting on credit performance, with comparative figures for the
previous fiscal year and such explanatory notes and supporting schedules as
may be appropriate in the particular circumstances and with such other
additional information as the Bank may request from time to time.
5.39       In addition, the Office of the Superintendency of Banks would
continue to carry out regular examinations and inspections of the books,
accounts and vouchers of both BANADESA and other FIs as required by Honduran
law.  The Bank would require the Office of the Superintendency of Banks to
express an opinion on the adequacy of the accounting system and procedures of
BCH's Trust Department, which maintains the project accounting for the PU at
the time of the annual audit. The PU would be informed by the Office of the
Superintendency of Banks on all matters of material interest affecting the
operations of the proposed project arising out of regular inspections in the
banking system without prejudice to the independent audit of the project to
be carried out by external auditors. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that auditing would be undertaken as described in paragraphs
5.36 through 5.39.



- 25 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, ANALYSIS AND RISK
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The provision of long-term financing for investment in rural areas
is expected to increase and diversify agricultural production and help
Honduras reduce its dependence on coffee and banana exports.  In addition,
increased production of food crops would encourage better nutrition as well
as improve efficiency of the presently underutilized food processing
industry. About 36,000 people (some 6,000 families) are expected to be
direct beneficiaries and increase their incomes; 90% of them are expected to
be small-scale farmers (para 4.02), most of whom would be farming in groups.
Assuming investments made under this project follows the pattern of
investments financed under the last project about 14,000 new jobs are
expected to be created. Although it is not possible to quantify, the
Government of Honduras would receive incremental fiscal revenue mainly from
exports of beef, tobacco and bananas and from increased sales tax revenues on
the domestic marketing of farm produce.
6.02      The project's training component is expected to have considerable
impact on upgrading the FIs' staff skills especially BANADESA's staff. This
would also improve BANADESA's overall performance. The training to be
provided to small-scale farmers would improve credit management by the
small-scale farmers' groups and by second-tier cooperatives.
B. Economic and Financial Analysis
6.03      As the actual mix of enterprises to be financed is unknown, because
farmers will modify their choice of investments over the disbursement period
in keeping with relative price and market changes of the commodities to be
produced, no aggregate economic or financial rate-of-return has been
computed. However, four typical investment models have been developed for
illustrative purposes to give an idea of the average returns that could be
expected. The models (Tables 10 through 13) represent investments that have
been made under the ongoing Second Agricultural Credit Project. They
include: a milk collection and refrigeration center for 12,000 liters/day
located on the north coast, the typical sub-borrower being a milk plant or
farmers' association; a 10-ha tobacco and maize farm located in the Ulua
valley in northwestern Honduras and run by a small-scale farmers group of
agrarian reform beneficiaries; a 4.2-ha melon and maize farm located in the
south run by an individual small-scale farmer; and a 200-ha dual-purpose
cattle farm located in central Honduras and owned by a large-scale farmer.
The financial and economic rates-of-return for each investment model are
adequate, as is shown below:
Financial             Economic
Investment Model                         Rate of Return          Rate of Return
Milk collection and refrigeration
center                                         30                    33
Tobacco and maize farm                           31                    45
Melon and maize farm                             37                     49
Dual-purpose cattle farm                         19                    26



- 26 -
The main reasons for the difference between financial and economic rates-of-
return are the shadow wages and export taxes that are taken into account in
the economic analysis.
6.04      The financial rates-of-return were derived using market prices for
both inputs (including labor) and products (Table 14).
6.05      The main assumptions on which the economic rates-of-return were
based are indicated in the paragraphs below:
(a)   Pricing of outputs.  All outputs with the exception of milk were
considered tradable commodities and efficiency prices were derived
from theiLr CIF or FOB value adjusted for taxes, transportation and,
when applicable, processing and intermediary costs. The efficiency
price for milk was derived from its financial price modified by a
consumption conversion factor (for which the standard conversion
factor of 0.98 was used as a proxy). Prices of outputs for future
years have been estimated according to trends projected by the
Bank's Export Projections and Commodities Department.
(b) Pricing of inputs. All tradable inputs were valued at their CIF
import price adjusted for taxes and other internal costs. Specific
conversion factors were derived for important non-tradable inputs
while the standard conversion factor was used for non-important
inputs to convert them into border prices.
(c) Shadow wage rate. The efficiency wage rate was derived on the
assumption that, without the project, only an average of about 83%
of the available farm labor is engaged in productive activities.
The market wage was assumed to represent the marginal productivity
of labor and the efficiency wage rate (EWR) was estimated as:
EWR = R x P = 0.98 x 0.83 = 0.81
where R is the consumption conversion factor used to convert the
opportunity cost of labor into border prices and P is the
probability of hiring a previously employed worker.
6.06      Sensitivity analysis on the economic rates-of-return has been
undertaken using switching values 4/ (Table 15). The analysis shows the
investment models could sustain drops in benefits of about 25% or increases
in operating costs that range from 40% to over 60%.
C. Project Risk
6.07      This repeater project would be run by a well established and
professionally run PU in BCH that has had experience with four Bank
Group-assisted projects since 1970.  The private commercial banks in Honduras
that would participate in the project have also proven to be competent and
careful in their lending operations.
4/ The percentage reduction in benefits or increase in costs that would make
the investment models' rate-of-return equal to the opportunity cost of
capital. For the sensitivity analysis, the opportunity cost of capital
used was 11%.



- 27 -
6.08      BANADESA, on the other hand, despite substantial assistance from
international lending agencies usually in the form of studies and financial
aid is still inefficient and in serious financial difficulties.  This project
attempts to promote change in BANADESA from within the organization and under
guidance from the Bank and BCH, by helping it create a small, efficiently run
unit to oversee the projects' portfolio within BANADESA. Once the system
proves its efficiency, it could be adopted by the whole institution.
6.09      However, if BANADESA's portfolio under the project, measured in
terms of loan delinquency, deteriorates, BANADESA would not be allowed to
participate under the project. BANADESA's exclusion could affect the level
of lending to small-scale farmers as private commercial banks have been
reluctant, in the past, to lend to this category of farmer mainly because of
their lack of adequate collateral. However, three financial instruments,
that are in different stages of preparation, are expected to encourage
private banks to overcome the problem of small-scale farmers' lack of
adequate collateral. First, a study under the project would help produce an
effective mechanism that would legally protect banks that use chattel
mortgages, such as cattle, by making them legally binding and enforceable.
Second, INA's land titling program partially financed by USAID, would help
banks feel more secure in their lending to small-scale farmers knowing the
land tenure situation has been resolved. Third, BCH is going to create a
small, limited guarantee fund for private banks that would partially
guarantee subloans made to small-scale farmers who do not possess enough
collateralfor private banks to lend to them otherwise. The implementation of
these financial instruments would assist in overcoming the risk of not
lending sufficient funds to small-scale farmers should BANADESA not improve
its performance and have to be excluded as a financial intermediary during
implementation.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) procurement procedures would be followed as outlined in paragraphs
4.08 to 4.11;
(b) disbursement procedures would be followed as outlined in paragraph
4.13;
(c)  the project Executive Committee would be formed by December 31,
1983 and would have the membership and tasks as described in
paragraph 5.01;
(d) BANADESA would undertake by June 30, 1984 a major review of its
organization and would prepare a plan of action to improve subloan
collection on its overall portfolio as described in paragraph 510;
(e) BCH would maintain the existing revolving funds, provide
counterpart funds, agree not to change or waive any of the lending
terms and conditions without Bank approval and review with the Bank
lending terms and conditions from time to time as described in
paragraph 5.12;



- 28 -
(f) reviews of subloans by the Bank would be necessary under conditions
established in paragraphs 5.13 and 5.15;
(g) BCH would use a mechanism to be established by Government to
restore the liquidity of an FI in the event of land expropriation
as outlined in paragraph 5.16;
(h) the use of recuperated funds would be as specified in paragraph
5.18;
(i)  terms and conditions of subloans would be as indicated in
paragraphs 5.19 to 5.24;
(j) reports as established in paragraph 5.34 would be made available
to the Bank; and
(k) project accounts would be maintained and audited as set out in
paragraphs 5.36 to 5.39.
7.02      The conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) the new posts of Deputy Director, Extension Specialist and Training
Coordinator had been filled (para 5.02);
(b) four administration contracts between BCH and FIs (including
BANADESA's) had been signed (para 5.06);
(c)  BANADESA had prepared a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the improvement of the recuperation rate of subloans
rediscounted under Bank-financed projects (para 5.08);
(d) BANADESA had established a coordination unit and redefine the terms
of reference of loan officers (para 5.09);
(e) Government had signed a subsidiary contract with BCH that
stipulates that the full amount of the loan would be passed on to
BCH under the same terms as obtained from the Bank (para 5.11);
(f) a eredit manual had been produced and approved by the Bank
(para 5.14); and
(g) the first year's training program had been designed and approved by
the Bank (para 5.27).
7.03      A condition of disbursement of Bank funds as rediscounts for a
particular FI would be that BCH had signed an administration contract with
that FI (para 5.17).
7.04       Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million at standard terms for Honduras.
The Borrower would be the Government of Honduras.
April 25, 1983



ANNEX 1
- 29 -                              Page 1
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
A. Training Coordinator
1.        The duties of the Training Coordinator would include the following:
(a) Management of the project's training component, which would include
planning, organizing, and financing the training needs of BCH staff
from the PU and the Office of the Superintendency of Banks, FIs
agricultural loan officers, BANADESA's staff, and small-scale
farmers;
(b) Selection of participants to be trained in consultation with the
participating institutions and farmers' groups;
(c) Maintenance of an up-to-date roster of relevant training courses,
including costs, duration, timing, nomination procedures and
logistical arrangements;
(d) Preparation of a detailed annual training schedule no later than
September 30 eah year for the next calendar year (the first year's
program should be drafted no later than June 30, 1983);
(e) Collection of the necessary information on the progress of the
training component to be used by the PU Director and included in
the project quarterly progress report; and
(f) Preparation of a mid-term evaluation report on the impact of the
training component by December 31, 1984; the evaluation would be
repeated for the completion report.
2.        The Training Coordinator would report to the PU Director.
B.   Extension Specialist
3.        The duties of the Extension Specialist would include the following:
(a) Management of the project's technical assistance component,
including planning and supervising the annual work program of the
technical assistance officers in coordination with their
administrative supervisors, the Regional Chiefs;
(b) Maintenance of close liaison with the extension staff of both MRN
and INA;



- 30 -                           ANNEX I
Page 2
(c) provision of assistance to the second-tier and regional
cooperatives in building up their own technical assistance staff;
(d) Keeping a roster of proven agricultural experts available in
Honduras;
(e) Keeping a price list of farm inputs and investment costs, updating
it every six months;
(f)  Collection of the necessary information on the technical assistance
component to be used by the PU Director and included in the project
quarterly progress report; and
(g) Preparaticon of a mid-term evaluation report on the impact of the
technical assistance component by December 31, 1984; the evaluation
would be repeated for the completion report.
4.        The Extension Specialist would report to the PU Director.
April 25, 1983



- 31 -                             ANNEX 2
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
A.   On the Agricultural Sector
A.1  Report No. 971-HO titled "Agricultural/Rural Sector Survey,
Honduras," IBRD/IDB/AID, January 1978.
A.2  Report No. 3606a-HO titled "Honduras, A Review of Selected Key
Problems of the Agricultural Sector," IBRD, October 28, 1981.
A.3  Report No. 3963-HO titled "Honduras, An Inquiry into Rural
Population, Small Farmers and Agrarian Reform," IBRD, January 14,
1983.
B.   On the Financial Sector
B.1 Report No. 3312-HO titled "Current Economic Memorandum on
Honduras," IBRD, July 17, 1981.
C.   On Previous Projects and Project Preparation
C.1  Honduras, Algunos Documentos de Identificacion para un Tercer
Proyecto UP-BCH, Junio 1982.
C.2  Honduras, Tercer Proyecto de Credito Agropecuario, Solicitud de
Prestamo al Banco Mundial, UP/BCH y UNDP-RUTA, Agosto 23, 1982.
C.3  Titulacion y Adquisicion de Tierras, UP/BCH, Agosto 1982.
C.4  Modelos de Financiamiento para Pequenos Productores Agropecuarios
del Pais, UP/BCH, Setiembre 1982.
C.5  Fondo de Garantia - Propuesta para su Creacion, UP/BCH,
Noviembre 1982.
C.6  Normas y Procedimientos - Fondo de Desarrollo del Pequeno Productor
Rural.
D.   Working Papers Prepared during Appraisal
D.1 Farm Investment Models - Financial and Economic Analysis.
D.2 Training Component.
D.3  BANADESA.
D.4  The Financial System
April 25, 1983



- 32 -                                Table 1
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Distribution in Honduras
Size of Farms (ha)                   Number of Farms                Area (ha)
Less than 1                              33,771                       21,542
From 1 to 3                              67,353                      123,528
From 3 to 5                              23,657                       93,923
From 5 to 10                             28,264                      201,274
From 10 to 100                           38,823                    1,030,589
From 100 to 500                           3,028                      579,904
From 500 to 2,500                            405                     369,749
More than 2,500                               40                     209,350
Total                             195,341                   2,629,859
Source: Nacional Agricultural Census of 1974.
April 25, 1983



HONDURAS
THIRD ACRICUTLTURAI CREDIT PROJECT
Number and Value of Subloans Granted by Financial Intermediaries under previous *3ank Projects
Financial Intermediary                      Cr. 179-HO               Cr. 434-Ho                Cr. 628-HO           Cr. 1005/1.n 1833-400 1/             Total
No.      US$' 00        No.      US$'0o0         NO.       US$000          No.       US$ 000           No.         qS'f nOo
Atlantida                                   14         464          13          353          3R         1,139         161         6,092            226         8,048
Ahorro Hondureno                           25        1,147          44          857          13           449           18        1,210            100         3,663
BANCAHISA                                  18          608          55       1,367           19           547          20         1,277            112         3,790
Occidente                                    7         281          35          942          32        1,486            54        3,259            128         5,968
Financiera                                   6         181          22          494          13           993            -             -            41         1,668
Honduras                                     4         215           8          317           2           429           17        1,570             31         2,531
BANADESA                                    -            -          69       2,204          237        5,967          438        19,626            744        27,797
Sogerin                                      5         405          52       1,518           87        3,089           50         3,499            194         2,511
Comercio                                    -            -           6          197          38         1,699          42         4,007             86         5,903
Continental                                 -            -           2          113          51        2,447            35        3,096             Ss         5,656
America                                     -            -           -            -           -             -          25         1,785             25         1,785
Mercantil                                    -                              -            -                               1           81                           R1
Central Bank                                -            -           4       1,398            --                                                     4         1,39R
Total                           79       3,301          310       0,760          530       18,245          R61        45,502 2/       1,780       76,808
___    __________                                                                                                                                                         H<
1/  Up to December 31, 1982.                                                                                                                                              a
2/  Total beneficiaries are 8,880 (includes 116 groups of farmers with 5,245 members).
Source: Project Unit and mission estimates.
April 25, 1983



HONDRTPAS
THIRD AGRICULTIRAL. CREDIT PROJECT
Number and Value of Subloans Granted by Activity Hnder previous Nank Projects
Cr. 179-HO               Cr. 434-HO               Cr. 628-Ho            Cr. 1005/Tn.  1833-HO 1/            Total
No.      uS$' nno        No.      UTS$' 00o       No.      UtSSIOOO         No.        ITS$'OOn          No.       nSS'n000
Livestock                                   79       3,301          309       8,760          374        10,405          677       32,467           1,350       55,023
Dairy and Breeding                          46       1,486          227       4,920          266         6,856          468       21,427           1,007       34,6R9
Dairy                                        -           -            8          212          28           764           43        2,396              79        3,372
Breeding and Fattening                      27       1,518           38       1,413           22         1,021           37        2,776             124        6,728
Breeding                                     6         297            2          105           -             -            4           460             1?           862
Fattening                                    -            -          23          598          55          1745           22         1,986            I00         4,320
Pigs                                         -           -            7         114            3           109           73        1,l97              33        1,42n
Poultry                                      -           -                         -                         -           24        1,264              ?4        1,264
Municipal Slaughterhouses                    -            -           4       1,398             -             -           -             -              4         1,30R
Other                                                                 -            -            -            -            6           961              6           961
Crops                                        -                        1       1,000          139         6,306          220       12,334             360       10,640
Sugar                                        -                                     -         113         4,153           75        4,665             18         8,010 7/
Rice                                         -           -            -            -          17         1,607            7           620             24        ?,727 3/
Tobacco                                                               -            -           -             -          113         3,463            113         1,463 4/   >
Bananas                                      -            -           1       1,000 5/         -             -            1            40                        1,040
Other                                        -           -            -            -           0           546           33        3,546              4?        4,00? 6/
Heavy Machinery                              -           -            -            -           10          853            4           501             14         l,154
Agroindustries                               -            -           -            -            7          591            -             -              7           5g]
Grain Storage                                --                                                -             -            I           700              1           20
Total                            79       3,301          310       9,760          530       18,245          861        45,502           1,780       76,808
1/  Up to December 31, 1982
2/  Area financed:  9,287 ha
3/  Area financed:   2,801 ha
4/  Area financed:  1,814 ha
5! Subloan to Isletas Banana Cooperative: 2,000 ha
6/  Principal crops are plantain, cacao, citrus, cotton and maize (1,868 ha)
Source: Project Unit and mission estimates.
April 25, 1983



HONDURAS
THRID AGRICULTUtRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of General Conditions of Credit and Loans
Cr 179-HO                  Cr 434-HO                 Cr 628-HO              Cr 1005/Ln 1833-HO         Proposed Project
(US$2.6 million)           (US$6.6 million)          (US$14.0 million)          (US$25.0 million)          (UtSS45.0 million)
I. Interest Rates (T)
IDA/IBRD to Government                                      0.75                       0.75                     0.75                   0.75;       8.25     Flexible rate
Government to Central Bank                                  4.5                        2.0                      2.0                    0.75;       8.25     Flexible rate
Central Bank to:
Financial intermediaries                                5.0                         5.0                     6.0                         12.0             Bank's rate + 1.5
Municipalities                                          -                           9.0                      -                           -
Financial intermediaries to farmers                         9.0                        9.0                     11.0                         16.0            Bank's rate + 5.5
2.  Period of Repayment (Years)
IDA/IBRD to Governments:
Grace period                                           10                          10                       10                       5, 10                          5
Total period                                           50                          50                       50                     20, 50                          20
Government to Central Bank:
Grace period                                           10                          10                      10                        5, 10                          5
Total period                                           16                          20                       18                      20, 30                         20
Central Bank to financial intermediaries
Grace period                                         3, 5                       2, 5                     2, 5                   Maximum 5                Maximum   5
Total period                                        8, 12                      9, 12                    6, 12                  Maximum 12                Maximuim 12
Financial Intermediaries to farmers
Grace period                                         3, 5                       2, 5                     2, 5                   Maximum S                Maximum   5
Total period                                        8, 12                      9, 12                    6, 12                 Maximum 12                 Maximum 12
3. Rediscount Rates (X)
Central Bank to financial intermediaries:                  75                          -                       70                      -
small scale                -                         90                        -                     85                              85
other (including           -                         75                        -                     80                              80
large scale)
4. Investments Percentages Financed
Financial intermediaries to farmers                        80                          -                  80, 90
small scale                    -                          90                        -                       90                            90
other                                                     80                                                80                            80
large scale                                                           7-                                                                   0 7
0~
Source: Mission estimates
Aoril 25, 1983



HONPURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit Component
Foreign          Foreign           Foreign
Items                     Year 1          Year 2           Year 3                Total Cost              Exchange          Exchange          Exchange
(L/000)         (1.000)          (L000)        (L/000)       (UsS-000)          (2)             (L-n6n)           (fS$0 -  ) oo
Capital Investment
Small farmers                   9,994           11,899          14,899         36,792          18,396            36              13,245              6,623
Other farmers                  18,527           23,818          20,191         62,536          31,268            33              20,636             10,318
Small rural industries          1,134            1,219           1,305          3,658           1,829            76               2,781              1,390
Subtotal                    29,655           36,936          36,395       102,986           51,493            36              36,662            18,331
Short Term Credit
Small farmers                   4,410            5,567           7,195         17,172           8,586            33               5,667              2,834
Other farmers                    5,472           5,990           6,778         18,240           9,120            22               4,013              2,nO6
Small rural industries             511             587             665          1,763             882            10                 176                 PR
Subtotal                    10,393           12,144          14,638        37,175           18,588            27              9,856              4,928
Total                   40,048          49,080           51,033       140,161           70,081           33              46,518             ?3,259
Explanatory Footnote:  The credit component was estimated on the basis of the experience gained tnder the ongoing Second Agricultural Credit Project.
The appraisal estimate for the number of subloans was based on the estimates of the five Proiect Unit Regional Chiefs.  The estimate for
the size of average investments per subborrower was based on 60G suibloan files taking accouint the categcrv of subhorrowers, not the
type of investment.  Yearly allowances were made for inflation, both domestic and international.  Poiring negotiations, the category of
large-scale farmers was created, cost adjustments were made assuming that 151 of the investments originally earmarked for other farmers
would now include the category of large farmers.                                                                                                         a
Source: Mission estimates.
April 25, 1983



HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Unit Component
Year 1                       Year 2                         Year 3                                             Foreign       Foreign       Foreign
Items                    Unit       Unit Cost    No. of Units    Cost           No. of Units    Cost           No.of Units       Cost              Total Cost            Exchange    Exchange    Exchange
(L'000)                       (L-000)                       (L000)                       (L'000)       (L'000)    (US$ 000)           (7)         (L'000)     (US$ 000)
Incrementral Project
Staff
Project subdirector         man/years         54                1            54              1             54               1            54            162          81              -              -           -
Training coordinator        man/years         48                1            48              1             48               1            48            144           72            -               -           _
Extension specialist        man/years         48                 1           48              1             48               1            48            144           72             -              -           _
Benefits 1/                                    -                -           600              -            600               -           600         1,800          900             -               -
Subtotal                                                                 750                          750                           750          2,250        1,125                            -
Consultant services
Chattel mortgage study   man/months           24               20           480              -              -               -             -            482         241           100            482          241
BANADESA                    man/months        18                4            72              4             72               4            72            216          108          100            216          10 9
Various 2/                  man/months        18                6           108              6            108               6           108            324          162          100             324         162
Subtotal                                                                660                           t80                           180          1,022          511           100          1,022          511
Extension Support Fund 3/    -                    -                -          128              -            166                           265            559          280            25            140           7n
Vehicles and equipmnent
Vehicles                    unit              24                3            72              4             96               3            72            240          120            80            192          96
Computer                    unit             300                 1          300              -              -               -             -            300          150           80            240          120
Subtotal                                                                372               -            96                -           72            540          270             -            432          216
Juticalpa office 4/             -                 -                -           42              -             42               -            42            126           63                            -
Total                                                             1,952              -          1,234               -         1,309          4,4q7       2,249             35          1,594          797
1/ Incremental benefits to provide PU staff with compensation equal to BCH staff.
2/  Short-term consultants to be selected by PU as needed; most likely specialists are for computers, livestock, crops, marketing, cooperative financing and rural industries.
3/  Funds to be used by PU as petty cash fund mostly to pay per diems and fuel to help extension services of other agencies, mostly MRN.
4/  Operating costs of small office to be opened in Juticalpa.
Source: Mission estimates.
April 25, 1983



0-    §0                                                                          
r     =  t  o  0t  I0]-0i 0                          00                       00          n        O O                                           00-g 
0    00 00                                            00                        00                00                '0o e         f>3 r  :X n         
g     0000       0                                                                                  0-               0              
sD ~N N0                                o      NJ     000  0n  o0 nNnJ nn  n,                                       ono   00n  n
= ~     ~       ~       .       r00            0      00                      0 nN                     oH        0      000-SO  r  Cr
o                                           0..-            0                                   0          0         00            0            0
o-0- 0                       0 X                                                                                                                         c r
00                                                          --- -  -0 :sQ           V                      h_1          
o                   j                                                                                                                                      =   0
0 000
rvj|wwO     0 0 0-   0   w                                                                                                                        0 W~>|z   on .Ioo°
n0 0 0OC  OOOOOt  rnooooC;       
00z '
'000~~~~~ 00   _l0  o0 o0 00                                                                                         00       0 o         nI9Sn I_u   s_ nJ 1
0~~~~~~~    .                                     000                     00                     0000000,0
a  
0  0                 NJ    0-                 0-                     NJNJ0-0-0-         00-0-NJ               CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D7 
0-  000-             0000-                   00-                    00-0-0000000                             0~~~
I0^>:-                                          SW°w               o                     o|MSoXo       
oJ                         0--00                    00                                    0-                        0      WIo@ o I'          
0-            NJ_  0         .0_ -0 C *0                                                               J     O  J         0
'0            0-0            0-     00-co              0-   00              0-      NJ O       J    0 Cs   00             00 >wo
K            la N              0      000               0-    00 o,                 00o0 -                    00 o     nCNaOO        
0~~~~ .CO  o o                                                           t    u                 l O OonOo                                  '
0-0-NJ  0000        0-0-                  0-I  NJNJO'  '0-0-0-0-                    0-           0     CO.
10-    NJ'_0                         -     -.            - -                 0                          N00N                                 
*.*                .[....nO n                   .                      .    .              ;.                00    ooDo .
NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x 
ts           4                 NJN NJ JN NJ JN 0n                                      OOOtN    JN  J JO     000          C  XtO
O  _D.  O H W  COO 'O O ;0  O 1>kn          <   O O O > Wun o o o o                      C 
10-~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0-  _J-- '0000         0-n                  0     00           -      0     0              -0
N' 31                               - q0--



- 39 -                               Table 8
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Fiscal Year(FY)        Cumulative Disbursements of the
and Semester         Proposed Loan at the End of the Period         Comparator 1/
US$ Millions              % of the Loan       % of the Loan
1984
1                       1.6                         4                   -
2                       5.0                        11                   2
1985
1                      12.1                        27                   7
2                      19.2                        43                  15
1986
1                      28.5                        63                  26
2                      36.5                       81                   37
1987
1                      41.0                       91                  49
2                      45.0                       100                  61
1988
1                                                                      71
2                                                                     80
1989
1                                                                      87
2                                                                      93
1990
1                                                                     97
2                                                                     100
1/  The comparator's profile was constructed using historical data from 13
IBRD agricultural credit operations in the Latin America and Caribbean
Region covering the period FY70-80.
April 25, 1983



CrC 'CI"C loUt-     C             C                         -                                      C            -
,-,'C      a          CCC      'C-C     H     c'Sr  SC          -     CS'CCC' C      'CCCCC      '-SCSI-C
'CC-S-C'''                  CC        CCS'C H'S      CCC C.          CC      CC CCCC      COCS C       CC-S-SC
C CCCCH'S           'C         'ICC     CCSC ICC        'SOC-S                 C05C0'SCC                   C''SC S
oC I-CC'SCICCCC             C"C    C'S   ICC            CICC  C        CC  IC 'SICIS                     CCC IC.   C
C           HCCSC''SVCCC'               C  5  CC  C   H  CC  I'S
C'S  IC     'C      C    IC  C  C CCC jC'  C  'CCC                                               C'CICC
'C  'C'CC.CCCC      -       C       'C CCCC  C'S  C  CC  C  C          CC  'C I'SCCC  C C  CCI'SCC  C' CCCCC
'C C  CC 'SCCC'S'SC        C       C  CCC  C  -  CC  CC  C  'SSCC              -   C  C  C  C.CCCC'CSCCCC'CSC
C'C CCC'S  CC              C            CCC CC'SC CCCSCCC                      CCCCC   'SC CCCCC
C    C  C    C    CC'C   I   C    C   'S   C  'C.  'S    C-   C  CC'C  C  C    CC  C  'S   'SC'S   C  S    CC  C  C    C  C
C  CC CH.CCCC-               C     'CC'S  -      CCSC'SCCCC                     C''S'SC'SSS C -                   Ci
C'C'SCC C      'SC    C     CC           C    C      CCCI'S  -   C  C'C      CCCCSC         CCCC        5CCC    -
-     -g              C       C.CCC    C-S'S        CC.CC.CCI      CCC'S        S5  C   C
'S'S                    C.C'CJ   C      'SC    C.C'C-C'C'S     CC.C'C       CCC'S
CC'CC'C  C       C'C         C'CC           C         C'CC1'C
Br             C C                                                                        I            C2:  'C
C     'C-SC         C           'CC                   <Hi           CCC          CC  C'
B      C'CCC         '   "S    CC              C          'CC  C      -  CC      "CC''C  'C     C'C'SC     'S'C'SS
C      CCC' C. C      -      -     -'            'C                                C'C'C'S  -                      I
C      -SC  'C   C           C      ICC                          C      C IC        CC'SC C.'SC'CC  C  C  C  C   C  C'C  C'  'C    CCC'C  C
flC
CCC  C  'C    CC         I  II               C   C  HO          AC  I   I 11111        C  C   C'   C  -  C'S'
CCC'                j?'                                         A'                                               C'
flIC          'CIC'   C'   'CCC            flS-C                  C  C'CH    CCC
C I                I&            -              CCC                S
C'C    C      CC       IC  IC              H   'C C C                   C            -.             IC
??t'           'C       I'
IC  S       CCC          K                       SC
'C             !"       C  'CC                                                IC
I                     C  C C        IC'      C                                'CC'
'S C     CC        C  IC        ICC   C   'C 'C-"         IC       C            C  C  'CC'      C
CC'                I.     i.          H'C   C
fl'C                                     "IC
I'                    to             I'          H
-                   ['
DI                           CCC             C''C  C   C                      -    -
C   C  'S    'CC                 C  CCC           CC          ICC    C,'CCCC    'C    CC    C         CC
CC                                                             So             C
'C  CI   -   'CCI            flC'R   C' COCCO       11111111                  IC
CC                 ICCC          C   C    -   CC                        C  'C-C C C
HCC0C:I:C                                      C'CCCC
CI  ,-CC  CC'C'CC   111111  II
H           C  I            -C   I -C      C       C  I   H  C
'S   C        'CO      '"'C'    CICH       -   HIC            5C  C
C' OCI  C  C C.              C 0  00CC'  11111111    C
IC            C              'C C          IC        C     C C
IC  C  CC    H ['C'CI   C   'C 'C.         IC  C   C [t-CCCC    II   111111                  C          C
-             'CC      C  H-C   C [CC    C   'C C            fiC'      C  'CC'CC
B                                                                                                            'C    LI'
I'S'S0H0HC'CrC                                                III   1111
C   CC. 5"  C'
C [HC'CC  111111)1
K -40                                     K0
CC       'CICC    -  C' H   C   CCI            IC        CCICI          III          III                   IC
-  toILS    C          to                     to   CICOC                                   '           'S
H  CC               C   'C 'CI         'C      C  CCI                                  C'
to   ::'                          K.  'S         '
II      C' CC' pyCI                                                                     C
'C H  V   CCC'    C  C C    £       K           K:    C'>                -  I-           II
C C  I"              L'C'        C             V   U       h"'''     ''''''''                  I;
H  CO     -   'C             IC  'C  'C
CC  C C CC  C C'CIC''C'C I   -                           9 "'f'   11-11,11
CCI - H ICC    H  OH                'S        IC' C
CC  CCC C C 'CHIC  CCI    flOC  I9II   11111111
CC'   H  AC'S'   CCO              CCI           I'C'C    C'CC                                   I;
K: £2 22'   '    Li 2                                                   111111
'C C  fiCOCI    C'j?'OI   C'   Ifl              I'C'   C  CICI         I  I  II    I  I  II
C C  IHCC          'CIC'C    C                  ICC       LSILIto
H        C         C       CC          I        CC'C'C'CC                 C     CC'     C
____         V       K                                     V  '
- OS -



- 41 -                                                                    Table 10
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Milk Collection and Refrigeration Center Investment Model (12,000 liters)
Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection
(L'O00)
Items                      …-- - - -                - - -               -    ------Years-------______ear_______
1             2            3           4           5             6           7            8            9          10
INFLOW
Sales                                 646           1,432        1,552       1,671       1,790        1,910        2,029        2,148       2,387        2,387
Residual value
- Working capital                     -               -            -            -          -             -           -            -            -         186
- Investment costs I1                 -               -            -                     _ -             -                                    -           48
Total Inflow                      646           1,432       1,552        1,671       1,790        1,910       2,029        2,148        2,387       2,621
OUTFLOW
Investment costs                      233               -            -            -           -            -           -            -            -           -
Incremental working capital            51               62           9            9          10            9            9           9           18           -
Operating costs                       615           1,354        1,466       1,574        1,689        1,795       1,909        2,016       2,237        2,237
Total Outflow                     899           1,416       1,475        1,583       1,699        1,804        1,918       2,025        2,255       2,237
Cash Flow Before Financing              (253)             16           77          88           91         106          111          123         132          384
Financial Rate of Return = 30% 2/
FINANCING
Inflow
- Owner-s share 3/                      47               -           -            -           -                         --
- Loan receipts
- Long-term 4/                      186               -
- Short-term 5/                      20              38                         -           -            -           -            -            -           -
Outf low
Debt service
- Long-term principal                 -               -            -          27           27           27          27           27          27           24
- Long-term interest                  -              31           31          31           26           22          17           13            8           4
- Short-term  principal               -              20           38           -            -            -           -            -           -            -
- Short-term  interest                -               3            6           -            -         _              -            -         _              -
Net Financing                         253             (16)         (75)         (58)        (53)         (49)        (44)         (40)         (35)        (28)
Deflation Factors 6/                     -           1.09      1.1718       1.2538       1.3290      1.4087       1.4933       1.5829      1.6778       1.7785
Net Financing Deflated                253              (15)        (64)         (46)        (40)         (35)        (29)         (25)         (21)        (16)
Net Benefit After Financing                -               1          13           42           51          71           82          98          111          368
1/ Includes 100% of land value, 50% of buildings and 10% of the remaining costs.
21/ Reflects financial return to all resources used in project.
3/ 20% of total investment costs.
41 80% of total investment costs, 16.5% interest repayable in nine years with two years grace.
5/ 16.5% interest.
6/ 9% in year 2; 7-1/2% in year 3; 7% in year 4 and 6% thereafter.
Source:  Mission.
April 25, 1983



- 42 -                                                         Table 11
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Tobacco and Maize Investment Model (10 ha)
Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection
(L)
Without                                              With Project
Project      ---------------------------Years                       ---------------------------
1          2 1/        3           4           5           6           7 2/         8
INFLOW
Tobacco sales                         -            -        73,150      75,240     75,240      77,330      79,420      79,420       79,420
Maize sales                         3,850        3,850       5,600       7,000       7,700      9,100       9,800       9,800        9,800
Home consumption - Maize              700          700         700         700         700         700         700         700          700
Residual value 3/                     -            -           -           -           -           -          -           -         37,352
Total Inflow                      4,550        4,550      79,450     82,940      83,640      87,130      89,920      89,920      127,272
OUTFLOW
Investment cost 4/                    -         50,000         -           -           -          -           -        20,000          -
Incremental working capital 4/        -         20,764         776         300         384         128        -           -            -
Operating cost-tobacco                -            -        51,730     51,730      51,730      51,730      51,730      51,730       51,730
Operating cost - maize               ,710        3,710       3,890       5,830      6,580       7,540       7,860       7,860        7,860
Total Outflow                     3,710       74,474      56,396     57,860      58,694      59,398      59,590      79,590       59,590
Total Net Benefit Before
Financing                             840      (69,924)    23,054      25,080      24,946      27,732      30,330      10,330       67,682
Incremental                             -        (70,764)    22,214       24,240      24,106     26,892      29,490       9,490       66,842
Financial Rate of Return = 31%
FINANCING
Inflow
Producer's contribution 5/            -          5,000         -
Loan receipt                          -            -           -
- Long-term 6/                       -         45,000         -                                                          -
- Short-term                         -         20,764       9,401         -           -          -           -         2,480          -
Outflow
Debt Service
- Long-term principal 7/             -            -           -           -        9,000       9,000       9,000       9,000        9,000
- Long-term interest 8/              -I -                   7,425       7,425       7,425      5,940       4,455       2,970        1,485
- Short-term principal               -            -        20,764       9,401         -           -          -           -          2,480
- Short-term interest 8/             -            -         3,426      1,551         _           -           -           -            409
Net Financing                          -          70,764    (22,214)   (18,377)   (16,425)   (14,940)   (13,455)    (9,490)    (13,374)
Deflation Factors 9/                   -                       1.09       1.1718      1.2538      1.3290     1.4087      1.4933       1.5829
Net Financing Deflated                            70,764    (20,380)   (15,683)   (13,100)   (11,242)    (9,551)    (6,355)           (8,449)
Total Net Benefit After
Financing                             840           840       2,674       9,397     11,846      16,490      20,779       3,975       59,233
Incremental                            -             -         1,834       8,557      13,006      15,650     19,939        3,135      58,393
1/ Sales and operating costs start only in year 2, to correctly time the inflows and outflows for discounting purposes.
2/ Additional investment costs equivalent to 40% of initial investment will be incurred in year 7.
3/ 100% of incremental working capital and 75% of investment costs incurred in year 7.
4/ 40% of incremental operating costs.
5| 10% of total investment cost.
6/ 90% of total Investment cost.
7/ Repayable over eight years, including three years of grace.
8/ 16.5% interest.
9/ 9% in year 2; 7.5% in year 3; 7% in year 4; and 6% thereafter.
Source: Mission.
April 25, 1983



- 43 -                                                                    Table 12
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Melon and Maize Investment Model (4.2 ha)
Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection
(L)
Without                                                            With Project
Project    ---------------------------------------------------Year…-------------------------------------------------
1           2 1/         3           4            5           6            7 2/        8            9          10
INFLOW
Melon sales                             -             -        14,910       15,265      15,620       16,470      18,592       19,726       19,726      19,726       19,726
Maize sales                           2,808         2,808       2,847        3,175       3,175        3,515        3,663       3,663        3,663       3,663        3,663
Home coosumption-maize                  360           360          360         365          365         370          370         370          370          370         370
Residual value 3/                       -                                                                                                                            4,836
Total Inflow                        3,168         3,168      18,117      18,805       19,160       20,350      22,625       23,759      23,759       23,759      28,595
OUTFLOW
Investment cost                         -           8,370         -            -           -            -            -         3,000
Incremental working capital 4t          -           4,576           15         156            6          33           50         -
Operating cost-melon                    -             -        11,404       11,404      11,404       11,404      11,404       11,404       11,404      11,404       11,404
Operating costs-maize                 2,029       _2,029        2,066        2,155       2,171        2,253       2,379        2,379        2,379       2,379        2,379
Total Outflow                       2,029       14,975       13,485       13,715      13,581       13,690      13,833       16,783      13,783       13,783       13,783
Before financing
Total                                   1,139       (11,807)      4,632        5,090        5,579       6,660        8,792       6,976        9,976       9,976       14,812
Incremental                                         (12,946)      3,493        3,951        4,440       5,521        7,653       5,837        8,837       6,837       13,673
Financial Rate of Return = 37%
FINANCING
Inflow
Producer's contribution 5/                            837         -
Loan receipts
- Long-term 6/                                    7,533         -            -
- Short-term                                     4,576        3,081          881
Outf low
Debt service
- Long-term principal 7/                             -            -            -         1,506        1,506        1,507       1,507        1,507
- Long-term interest 8/                                         1,243        1,243       1,243          994          746         497          249
- Short-term principal                                          4,576        3,081          881           -            -            -           -
- Short-term interest 8/                              _            755         508          145
Net Financing                                        12,946       (3,493)    (3,951)       (3,775)     (2,500)    (2,253)       (2,004)      (1,756)
Deflation factors 9/                                                1.09      1.1718       1.2538      1.3290       1.4087      1.4933       1.5829
Net Financing Deflated                                            (3,205)     (3,372)      (3,011)     (1,881)      (1,599)     (1,342)      (1,109)
Net Benefit after Financing
Total                               1,139         1,139       1,427        1,718       2,568        4,779       7,193        5,634       8,867        9,976       14,812
Incremental                                         -           288          579       1,429        3,640       6,054        4,495       7,728        8,837       13,673
1/ Sales and operating costs start in year 2, to correctly time the inflows and outflows for discounting purposes.
2/ Additional investment costs equivalent to 36% of initial investment will be incurred in year 7.
3/ 100% of incremental working capital.
4/ 40% of incremental operating costs.
5/ 10% of total investment cost.
6/ 90% of total investment cost.
7/ Repayable over eight years, including three years of grace.
8/ 16.5% interest.
9/ 9% in year 2; 7.5% in year 3; 7% in year 4; and 6% thereafter.
Source: Mission.
April 25, 1983



EONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAI CREDIT PROJECT
Dual-purpose Cattle Investment Modal (200 ha)
Investment Analysis and Cash Flow Projection
(L)
Without                                                                _         With Project                            -
Pro ject    --------Y------------------------------------------------------------Years---------------------------------------------
1          2 8/        3            4           5           6           7           8           9          10          11          12          13-19        20
Inf low
Total production
Sales                                 19,785       19,785      22,162      29,930      38,178      47,412      49,572      53,772      54,492      54,492      53,772       53,772      54,492      54,492      54,492
Home consumption   milk                  420          420         420         470         420         420         420         420         420         420          420         420         420         420         420
Residual value I/                        -            -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -                                               ,552
Total Inflow                       20,205        20,205     22,582       30,350      38,598      47,832      49,992      54,192      54,912      54,912      54,192      54,192       54,912      54,912    150,464
Outflow
Investment costs                         -         47,350      36,200         -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Incremental working capital 2/           -          2,052       1,852       4,302         642         192         210          36         -           -            -           -           -           -
Operating costs                       13,223       13,223      15,274      17,126      21,428      22,070      22,262      22,472      22,508      22,508      22,472      22,472       22,508      2_2,508     22,508
Total Outflow                       13,223       62,625      53,326      21,428      22,070      22,262      22,472      22,508      22,508      22,508      22,472      22,472       22,508      22,508       22,508
Net Benefit Before Financing
Total                                6,982      (42,420)   (30,744)      8,922       16,528      25,570      27,520      31,684      32,404      32,404      31,720      31,720      32,404       32,404      127,956
Incremental                                    (49,402)   (37,726)       1,940       9,546       18,588      20,538      24,702      25,422      25,422      24,738      24,738      25,422       25,422      120,974
Financial Rate of Return   19%
FINANCING
Inf low
Producer contribution 3/                 -          9,470       7,240         -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -
Loarn Receipts
- Long-term 4/                         -        37,880      28,960          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -
- Short-term                           -          2,052      10,166      20,932      25,869      32,126      35,890      34,536      30,662      24,574      16,591        5,719         -
Outflow
Debt Service
- Long-term principal 5/               -            -           -           -           -         9,548       9,546       9,548       9,548       9,548       9,548       9,552          -
- Long-term interest 67                -            -         6,250      11,029      11,029      11,029       9,453       7,878       6,302       4,727       3,152        1,576         -
- Short-term principal                 -            -         2,052     10,166       20,932      25,869      32,126      35,890      34,536      30,662      24 ,574     16,591        5,719
- Short-tarm interest 6/               -            -           339       1,677       3,454       4,268       5,301       5,922       5,698       5,059       4,055        2,738         944
Net Financing                          -        49,402      37,725       (1,940)    (9,546)   (18,598)   (20,538)   (24,702)   (25,422)   (25,422)   (74,736)   (24,738)    (6,663)                  -
Deflation Factors 7/                   -            -         1.09       1.1718      1.2538      1.3290      1.4087      1.4933      1.5829      1.6778      1.7785      1.8852        1.998         -
Net Financing Deflated                 -         49,402      34,610      (1,656)    (7,613)   (13,986)   (14,579)   (16,542)   (i6,060)   (15,152)   (13,909)   (13,122)    (3,335)                  -            -
Net Benefit After Financing
Total                              6,982        6,982       3,867      7,316        8,915      11,584      12,941      15,142      16,344      17,252      17,811      18,598       29,069      32,404      177,956
Incremental                          -            -        (3,115)        334       1,933       4,602       5,959       8,160       9,362      10,270      10,829      11,616       22,087      25,422      120,974
1/ Herd incrament L 86,100 and 100% of incremental working capital L 9,452.
2/ 100% of incremental operating costs.
3/ 20% of total investment cost.
4/ 80% of total investment cost.
5/ Repayable over 10 years with three years of grace.
6/ 16.5% interest.
7/ 9% in year 2; 7-1/2% in year 3; 7% in year 4 and 6% thereafter.
8/ Sales and operating costs start in Year 2 to correctly time the inflows and outflows for discounting porposno.
Source: Mission.
April 25, 1983



- 45 -                             Table 14
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Prices Used in Project Appraisal
Item                Unit          Financial Price 1/   Economic Price 1/
Outputs
Beef liveweight 2/                 L/kg                 1.31                 126
Heifers                            L/head             600                   588
Milk
- Raw unrefrigerated milk        L/liter              0.42                  0.41
- Refrigerated                   L/liter              0.545                 0.53
Maize 3/                           L/kg              0.35, 0.36                0.37
Tobacco                            L/kg                 4.18                  4.27
Melon
- Export                         L/box               17.50                 18.25
- Domestic market                L/box                7                     6.9
Inputs
Unskilled farm labor 4/            L/day               5,6                4.05, 4.86
Milk 5/                            L/liter              0.49                  0.48
Tractor time                       L/ha               170                    161.5
Fertilizer                         L/lb                 0.35                  0.33
Insecticide 6/                     L/lb                 4.16              3,72, 14.88
Fungicide 6/                       L/lb                 2.30              1,86, 27.9
Fuel                               L/gal                2.42                   1.91
Others
Standard Conversion Factor                                                   98%
Opportunity Cost of Capital                            16.5%                  11%
1/ Prices at year of full development.
2/ Only bulls, cows and steers are sold as beef; including heifers, the
financial price is 1.46 L/kg.
3/ Financial price depends on region it is produced.
4/ Fluctuates according to season and area of the country. L 5 is the legal
minimum wage.
5/ As an input to the milk collection and refrigeration center investment model;
in efficiency terms, milk already produced in the area without the project is valued
at 0.44 L/liter; incremental milk at 0.48 L/1.
6/ Prices vary according to the insecticide or fungicide used.
Source: Mission estimate.
April 25, 1983



- 46 -                             Table 15
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate                     Switching Values
of Return                          1/     Total
Investment Model                       (Base Rate)                  Benefits   Operating Costs
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(  -)…__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---- - -- -
Milk collection and refrigeration
center                                   33                                 55
Tobacco and maize farm                     45                        -26             +40
Melon and maize farm                       49                        -28             +43
Dual-purpose cattle farm                   26                        -22             +64
1/  The variables chosen for the analysis of the switching value of the benefits are:
Milk collection and refrigeration center:   the amount of milk collected at the plant;
Tobacco and maize farm:                      the production value of exportable tobacco;
Melon and maize farm:                        the production value of exportable melons; and
Dual-purpose cattle farm:                    the combined production value of milk and
beef.
Source: Mission estimates.
April 25, 1983



CHART
- 47 -
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Unit Organization Chart
C E N T R A L  B A N K
PROJECT UNIT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
PROJECT UNIT HEADQUARTERS
TEGUCIGALPA
Project Director
Deputy Director
Training Coordinator
Technical Assistance Specialist
Financial Analysts
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Northwest           Northeast            Central    1        Southern            Western
Regional Office    Regional Office    Regional Office    Regional Office    Regional Office
San Pedro Sula         La Ceiba          Tegucigalpa          Choluteca           Sta. Rosa
Chief               Chief               Chief               Chief             de Copan
Deputy Chief        Deputy Chief        Deputy Chief        Deputy Chief           Chief
Spec. in Coope-       Veterinarian
rative Financing
Project Officers   Project Officers   Project Officers   Project Officers   Project Officers
Support Staff       Support Staff       Support Staff       Support Staff       Support Staff
Local Office
Juticalpa
Project Officer
Support Staff






_______   ___  ____   ________   __________________                     _________________                                                                             ~~IBRD-16747R
¶7-                                    99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ic. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ,7Xiic        ,ANLJ9Y ¶983
BE   ZE -L*,I4,Z,,.E
A'r"Z                          I ""IT 5EMA A
COW    ,~~~~~O ~L SAL i,A("Q            r!ARAGJA
CR0/LI                                                                         I :T,                        COSTA
V t   -                              A 69(9A             >               Jc  <nyC            cz2                                                     I                                RCA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC
G U AT    A L A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                             ~,64YA 9__
t-")9V'Ut-7-9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W ~ ~ ~   ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~14
SA   F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XQ~~~~~ 
7~~~~~~~~~~tb'                                                                                              CCr-
7')   ~~~~''  *  v  -'   ~~~~~~~~    1¶i~~~~OnoO  ( '~~~~~~   ,t  -5                          / ~~~~~~~               /9                                         '4~,4
'<    ,(  '                                                     5-0
<2      I'                                                                                   ,5ro,b,~~~~~d,C5,,,  'o 
X,                                                                                              F~~~~JIIF.T)~~~~~ LEMP '.'U 
U     J                  I'    '5
S  '  «<'S                         <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
sfr9i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                      A'                    9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5"'       e~~~~~~~~
S                                                  '-'7 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SAN9AI(959 ~  /5  7 <~"<  4   >                                            /                 -'~'                                        (jJ~vA'''                      ~        ~       '< 
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
'  cLc~e '    4,9    444t            ~        I9          ~        ~       ~       .-                                                                                      HOC NDE  U Of A 
<~THIRD AGRICULTURAL, C EDIT PROJECT
Y  E~~odor sn9LrR9k4v  9   "0  )'  '         -s 2      Acee~~~ov9         >   t                   /7"       ~                         Project Unit Offi r
(dab ~ ~~~~~b~q,Regionol Office~
19  \   .v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'H9t'  "<('9"  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'YY    tA%                                                          Proposed Office if/epeedeor 'e [egscigolpv Ongiosni Office)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,pedCf'  "P""'    --04   Rg-11Ofie
WO'qeeOr    -' ve9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A] ~Grovel Rood;
-     -orh 9.-ds
F  v- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-s---s-,Re/n d-
E L    SALVADOR                                                                                                                                                                 '     Mom, Airpolss
I   nS /NI[CARAGUA                                                             ~'                    M.nPoiol-s
A~~~~~~~~~~ flencfi-e InTT ir
*  cc 5,1,7Cc         'N'       ~~~~~KILOMETERS 9,  25         0        7         )                           Abov,e  800
/             nt~~~~ILS 0         2595                                                0    ,0
<'20" 5  /                c--  -'    '                                          L'it'-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77; 0-600
/9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~86



