Document of
The World Bank                                   FlE COrP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3550-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOGMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 45.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUJIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Lempira (L)
US$1.00           L 2.00
US$0.50        =  L 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADESA             National Bank for Agricultural Development
BCH                  Central Bank of Honduras
CABEI                Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CONADI               National Investment Corporation
CONSUPLANE            Superior Council of Economic Planning
CU                   Coordination Unit
FI                   Financial Intermediary
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
INA                  National Agrarian Institute
MRN                  Ministry of Natural Resources
PAC                  Project Administration Contract
PU                   Project Unit of the Central Bank
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
UNDP-RUTA            Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
USAID                United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Honduras
Beneficiary:      Central Bank of Honduras (BCH)
Amount:           US$ 45.0 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years grace, at standard variable
interest rate
Relending
Terms:           The Government would make funds available to BCH on the
same terms as the Bank loan for the purpose of redis-
counting subloans of financial intermediaries to sub-
borrowers for investments in agriculture and other
productive activities in rural areas. The credit risk
would be borne by the financial intermediaries; the
foreign exchange risk would be borne by BCH.
Project
Description:    The project has two equally important objectives.  One is
to provide funds for farm and non-farm investments in
rural areas, and for working capital complementary to such
investments, to promote (a) agricultural exports to
improve the country's balance of payments; (b) increased
rural production, incomes, and consumption; and (c) rural
employment. The other is to improve institutional
capacity to provide credit efficiently 2nd to assist
farmers to develop bookkeeping and managerial skills in
order both to participate more actively in the process of
institutional lending and to derive more benefit from
their farms. The project would consist of (a) a line of
credit for both agricultural and non-farm investments (70
percent of base cost); (b) a line of short-term credit to
cover working capital needs generated by investments
(26 percent); (c) incremental staffing and equipment for a
Project Unit (PU) in BCH to supervise and coordinate
administration of credit funds by Financial Intermediaries
(FI) (3 percent); and (d) training for staff of both the
PU and FIs and for small-scale farmers (1 percent). Of
the 36,000 persons who would benefit directly from the
project, about 90 percent are expected to belong to
small-scale farming families; about 40 percent of the
credit funds are expected to be lent to small-scale
farmers. The main risk of the project is that the
National Bank for Agricultural Development (BANADESA),
the major channel for loans to small farmers, may become
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ineligible to participate in the project because of its
financial problems. To minimize this risk and improve
BANADESA's operation, technical assistance and
strengthening of BANADESA is provided under the proposed
project.
Estimated Cost:
US$ Millions Equivalent
Local    Foreign   Total
Credit Program
A. Long-term Investments                    33.2       18.3      51.5
B. Short-term Credit                        13.7        4.9      18.6
Subtotal                        46.9       23.2      70.1
Project Unit
(incremental staffing and equipment)         1.4        0.8       2.2
Training                                       0.6        0.4       1.0
Baseline Total                  48.9       24.4      73.3
Price Contingencies                            0.4        0.2       0.6
Total Project Cost              49.3       24.6      73.9
Front-end Fee                                   -         0.2       0.2
Total Financing Required        49.3       24.8      74.1
Project Financing Plan:
US$ Millions Equivalent
Local    Foreign   Total
Bank                           20.2       24.8      45.0
BCH                            12.6        -        12.6
FIs                             7.7                  7.7
Subloan Beneficiaries           8.8        -         8.8
Total                           49.3       24.8      74.1
Estimated Bank
Disbursements:                               ----------US$ million---------
FY:      1984      1985      1986      1987
Annual                   5.0     14.2      17.3      8.5
Cumulative               5.0     19.2      36.5    45.0
Economic Rate of
Return:              Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   No. 4298-HO, dated April 25, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
of US$ 45.0 million to the Republic of Honduras for the Third Agricultural
Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at the World Bank's standard variable rate. All
proceeds of the loan would be relent on the same terms as the Bank loan, to
the Central Bank of Honduras. Of the total Bank loan, US$ 32.9 million is
expected to be on-lent through participating financial intermediaries to
final beneficiaries for terms of up to 12 years, including 5 years grace, at
an annual interest rate fixed at 5.5 points above the World Bank standard
variable rate in the semester the subloan contract was signed; US$ 9.3
million is expected to be on-lent to beneficiaries of investment credit
provided under the loan, through short-term loans with a maximum term of 18
months and at the same interest as long-term loans, for the purpose of
financing short-term working capital needs complementary to the investments;
US$ 1.6 million would help to finance the incremental staffing and equipment
needs of a Project Unit in BCH; and US$ 0.7 million would help to finance the
training component. The balance of US$ 0.5 million would be used to cover
price contingencies and the Bank's front-end fee.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Memorandum on Honduras"
(3312-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 29, 1981. Bank
missions visited Honduras during December 1982 and March 1983 to review
recent economic performance. The main findings of these missions are
summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Honduras is a poor country.  Per capita GNP was about US$ 600 in
1981, one of the lowest in the Western Hemisphere. Malnutrition is severe;
infant mortality is about 9 percent of live births; and the literacy rate is
only 60 percent. One-half of the population is without safe water and
three-quarters of the households are without access to sanitary waste
disposal and electricity.
4.        The population of about 3.8 million is now growing rapidly, at
about 3.4 percent a year, straining available resources. While two thirds
of the economically active population is employed in agriculture, only
one-quarter of the land area is arable. The Government is showing some
awareness of the population problems. Family planning information and
services are provided at Government health clinics to anyone requesting
them. In addition, a local, private affiliate of the International Planned



- 2 -
Parenthood Federation supports two urban clinics, reaching about
three percent of the fertile female population. External assistance to these
and other smaller programs comes from the United Nations, private
organizations, and USAID.
5.         During 1950-75, the real growth rate of the Honduran economy was
3.7 percent per year; per capita income grew by only about one percent per
year. A number of factors contributed to this poor performance. A major
reason was the continued dependence on banana exports, and deteriorating
terms of trade.
6.         The risk of dependence on one or two export crops was illustrated
dramatically during 1974-75 when extensive destruction of the banana planta-
tions by one of the worst hurricanes in Honduras' history resulted in a sharp
reduction in exports and GDP; about seven percent in the latter. Further-
more, the terms of trade deteriorated by about one fifth, owing to large
increases in petroleum prices and rising prices for imported goods. As a
result, the resource gap grew from about 1 percent of GDP during 1972-73 to
an average of 5 percent during 1974-75, and the rate of inflation accelerated
from 2.7 percent a year during 1966-73 to 11 percent a year in 1974-75.
7.         Subsequently, real GDP recovered remarkably during 1976-79, as it
grew by 7.7 percent per annum. Real investment--public and private--and ex-
ports were the most significant growth factors. The quantum and value of ex-
ports grew rapidly at 11 and 25 percent yearly, respectively, as a result of
a one-third expansion of coffee production, partial recovery of banana pro-
duction, and higher coffee prices. However, the terms of trade deteriorated
significantly after 1977 owing to rapidly rising import prices coupled with a
decline of coffee prices. Rising import prices prevented a return to the
traditional price stability of the economy and adversely affected real wages.
Inflation averaged seven percent a year during 1976-79.
8.         The favorable growth performance of the economy during 1976-79 was
partly a result of more aggressive Government development policies in the
1970s. Serious infrastructure deficiencies in transport and power were eased
when a basic network of trunk highways and ports was built. As a result,
private activities expanded rapidly, taking advantage of the externalities
provided by the public sector. Improved Government planning and executing
capacity was behind the infrastructure expansion; public fixed investment
increased from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in 1974 and to 8 to
9 percent in 1978-79. To finance these expanded activities, the Government
made efforts to strengthen public finances through tax reforms in 1975, 1979,
and, most recently, in 1981 and 1982. Nevertheless, public finances weakened
during 1980-1982, as noted below.
Recent Developments
9.         In 1980-82, economic growth slowed down as exports and investment
lost their dynamism. Private investment was adversely affected by political
events in Central America and by tight credit. Furthermore, the country's
financial position deteriorated. The current account deficit of the balance
of payments averaged about US$ 280 million (10.6 percent of GDP), and net



- 3 -
official foreign exchange reserves declined substantially in spite of
significant inflows of foreign official capital, partly because of a sharp
decline in foreign commercial credits.  Public finances also deteriorated;
Central Government current expenditures increased rapidly during 1980-81,
reflecting salary adjustments and large increases in the areas of education
and health.  Since January 1982, a new, democratically elected idministration
has tightly controlled current expenditures, but revenues from tax reforms in
1981 and 1982 have been insufficient, and public finances continued to be
tight in 1982. Weak public finances during 1980-82 brought about a larger
than usual increase in the use of domestic credit by the public sector and a
tightening of credit to the private sector. As part of a stand-by agreement
with the IMF covering a 14-month period ending in December 1983, the
Government took significant revenue measures. These were: an increase of
the value added tax; a 20 percent import surcharge; higher excise taxes on
soft drinks, liquor, and beer; and new selective consumption taxes, mostly on
cars. A new simplified import tariff is now being considered in Congress.
In addition, tariffs of the port authority, power company, telecommunications
company, and water authority were increased. The overall deficit of the
non-financial public sector, as a percentage of GDP, however, will only
decrease slightly because of the additional burden that will be created by
the needed refinancing of the National Investment Corporation (CONADI)
obligations with foreign commercial banks arising out of its support to
private projects with share capital, loans, and loan guarantees. Many of
these projects are now bankrupt or in arrears on their debt obligations, and
the Government is honoring their debts. Negotiations with foreign commercial
banks to refinance the debts of CONADI and a few other public agencies are
nearly complete. About 18 percent of existing external public debt (about
US$ 225 million) is being refinanced; about US$ 120 million of amortization
payments will be rescheduled. Furthermore, to increase private savings and
resource mobilization by private banks, interest rates were freed on savings
deposits and on loans financed with foreign credits.
Prospects and Development Programs
10.       Economic growth prospects during the 1980s are uncertain.  The
large Government investment effort underway, together with the good prospects
for increasing export volumes of lumber and some other non-traditional
exports, as well as possible diversification efforts by the private sector,
could result in significant growth in the mid to late 1980s. Nevertheless,
the outlook for 1983-84 is less optimistic because of the political climate
in the region, low export prices, and reduced demand in the industrialized
countries. As a result, real GDP growth may be only about 1.4 percent a year
during 1980-85. Public finances are expected to remain tight. Maintenance
of domestic demand levels, proper policies, and an improved investment
climate could help revitalize the private sector so that it can contribute to
further growth of the economy and take advantage of the new opportunities
opened by the Government investment effort. However, private investment
prospects are now negatively affected by the unsettled situation in Central
America.
11.       The current account balance of payments will likely show moderately
high deficits because of the large public investment program's import re-
quirements and higher prices for capital imports. The quantum of exports



would likely expand at a very low rate for the next few years; low export
prices will also affect foreign exchange earnings from exports. This growth
rate is much lower than in the recent past because banana production has-
almost recovered to pre-hurricane levels, and coffee production will most
likely not expand as rapidly as in 1976-80, when it grew 40 percent. The
most dynamic export will likely be lumber, which is expected to almost double
in volume once the new sawmill in the Olancho area becomes fully operational
in 1983.
12.       The public investment program for the next few years shows contin-
ued large expenditures on infrastructure projects, particularly for on-going
power and transport projects, which are still crucial, given the country's
development stage; and heavy investments for export diversification, mainly
through forestry development. Also likely are large expenditures for agri-
cultural and rural development as well as for primary education and health.
Parallel increments in current expenditures are programmed to staff and equip
the education and health centers. Full implementation of this program is not
likely because of tight public finances and limitations in administrative
capacity to prepare and implement new projects, particularly in the rural and
social sectors. Nevertheless, the public sector's administrative capacity to
prepare and execute projects has shown a marked improvement in the past few
years. This is reflected in the increased share of public investment in GDP
and has made it reasonable to expect that the major components of the
program, some of which have been under preparation for a number of years,
will be implemented in a relatively timely manner.
13.        Power investments will be the largest of the proposed program,
averaging about 40 percent of public fixed investment, mostly because of the
large, lumpy investment required for the El Cajon hydroelectric project,
which the Bank Group is helping to finance (Loan 1805-HO and Credit 989-HO,
of 1980). This high share is justified, since imported oil costs reached US$
170 million (23.0 percent of c.i.f. merchandise imports) in 1982, compared to
only US$ 14.7 million (6.6 percent of merchandise imports) in 1970. An
expanded domestic demand and possible return to higher oil prices would bring
about a much larger bill for imported oil in the future. The El Cajon
project will reduce significantly the country' s dependence on foreign energy
sources. Moreover, through a project financed by a Bank loan (Loan 1861-HO,
signed on June 23, 1980), the Government will step up efforts to promote oil
exploration by private companies.
14.       Forestry investments include one large sawmill with completion
expected in 1983. The large transport investments include roads for the
sawmill, further rural roads, a modest expansion of the trunk highway system
and completion of a new port at Castilla for wood product exports.
Agricultural investments will be focused on rural development projects for
three major valleys (Aguan, Guayape and Comayagua) and the western area of
the country. Health investments will be concentrated on water supply and
medical facilities for Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and provincial towns, as
well as for expanded health services in rural areas. Special efforts for
training of nurses and other health personnel will facilitate stepped-up
health and family-planning activities in the future. Educational investments
are mostly for primary schools, the university, and agricultural and



- 5 -
vocational training institutions. Nutritional improvement efforts provide
for widened food distribution and vaccine coverage for school children and
expectant mothers.
15.       The Government's investment and financial programs, the latter
supported by the IMF through a 14-month stand-by arrangement, should
strengthen the balance of payments in the mid-1980s by reducing significantly
the fuel import requirements of the economy, generating increased exports,
particularly lumber and wood products, and by containing excess domestic
demand. The large size of its public investment program, the uncertainty
which now prevails in the Central American region and affects also Honduras,
and past volatility in Honduras' export receipts, have led the authorities to
agree with the Bank on annual reviews of the investment program and its
financing prospects. The Bank plans to continue monitoring closely Honduras'
progress.  Honduras' adherence to a prudent financial program, its relatively
careful demand management and still low debt service make it creditworthy for
Bank lending. However, given the present and foreseeable poverty of the
country, even with these measures, the Government will need external
assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component of development
projects suitable for international finance. With the expected improvement
in the international environment and, consequently, possible increased
availability of concessionary finance, Honduras should be a candidate for
borrowing on somewhat softer terms than it is currently receiving.
External Financing
16.       As the import needs of the economy expand, particularly the imports
related to the public investment program, the current account deficit is
expected to average US$ 240 million during 1983-85. As a result, substantial
capital inflows will be required. The bulk of the external financing
requirements is expected to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will
require an estimated gross capital inflow of about US$ 1 billion during
1983-85, of which about 40 percent will be disbursed from commitments made
through the end of 1981.
17.       Honduras' disbursed public external debt repayable in foreign
currency amounted to US$ 1.2 billion or 46 percent of GDP at the end of 1981;
US$ 1.9 billion if undisbursed commitments are included. In the past,
Honduras has managed to keep its external debt-service ratio fairly low,
because foreign loans were almost all on concessionary terms. Although the
debt-service ratio in 1981 was 13 percent, it increased to 20 percent in 1982
as a result of the Government's taking over CONADI's direct debts and
guarantees to private investors (paragraph 9). This is not expected to be
repeated since the Government and the Bank are collaborating in a program to
restructure CONADI and monitor its financial practices. The debt-service
ratio is expected to peak at about 26 percent by the mid- to late-1980s and



- 6 -
decline gradually thereafter, given reasonable recovery of the world
economy. Nevertheless, continued maintenance of Honduras' creditworthiness
will depend on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements its major
public investment projects; on careful, continued demand management,
including cautious use of non-concessionary borrowing; and on pursuing more
active export promotion policies.
18.       At the end of 1981, the Bank Group held about 20.7 percent of the
disbursed public debt outstanding and repayable in foreign currency;
excluding IDA, the Bank's share is about 14.3 percent. These shares are not
expected to increase significantly in the next few years. About half of the
Inter-American Development Bank's (IDB) total loans disbursed and outstanding
are repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the disbursed public
debt repayable in foreign currency is only 11.7 percent. The Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) accounts for 8.8 percent of
the total, the U.S. Government for 10.2 percent, Venezuela for 10.2 percent,
privately held debt for about 30.2 percent and other debt for 8.2 percent.
19.       During 1970-82, the principal official lending agencies committed
some US$ 1.9 billion at FY82 prices, of which the Bank Group provided 34 per-
cent, IDB 32 percent, CABEI 22 percent, and the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) 12 percent. IDB has concentrated on manufacturing,
agriculture, power, transport, water and sewerage, and education; CABEI on
transport and power; and USAID on agriculture and education.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Beginning with a loan of US$ 4.2 million for roads in 1955,
Honduras has to date received 28 Bank loans totalling US$ 438.5 million and
12 IDA credits totalling US$ 85.1 million, both net of cancellations. Bank
Group lending to Honduras was unusually large during 1979 and 1980, both
because of the Government's stepped-up investment program and because of the
major investment in the El Cajon Power Project, for which a US$ 105.0 million
loan and US$ 20.0 million credit were approved on March 11, 1980. While we
hope to actively continue to support Honduras' development efforts, the
annual Bank Group lending level is constrained by the relatively large size
of the El Cajon operation in our portfolio. An important factor which will
be taken into account in determining the pace and size of future lending will
be the Government's capacity to implement its large ongoing program and to
absorb further operations (paragraph 14).  As of March 31, 1983, a total of
US$ 166.6 million remained to be disbursed on 12 Bank Group-assisted
operations for electricity, roads, education, agricultural credit, industrial
credit, ports, regional development, tourism, and petroleum exploration.
Execution of projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been
satisfactory.



- 7 -
21.       Speed of disbursements in Honduras has varied considerably by
sector, with power projects generally accounting for the largest share. In
FY82, disbursements reached a record high of US$ 46.6 million. Agricultural
credit accounted for the second-largest share of the disbursed amount,
US$ 9.1 million. Disbursements under the Second Agricultural Credit Project
have been moving particularly well. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983 as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of the
country. However, the First Livestock Development Credit, approved in 1970,
marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending.  Since then,
while lending for power and transport has continued, diversification of our
lending has increased through operations for another livestock project, two
education projects, two agricultural credit projects, a regional development
project, two industrial credit projects, a tourism development project, and a
petroleum exploration promotion project.
23.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the Government's
objectives to increase production, employment, and exports, and to raise
living standards of the poor by emphasizing projects in the productive and
social sectors. On the productive side, in addition to the proposed project,
we would continue to provide credit to the industrial sector. On the social
side, we would attempt to complement the active programs of other agencies,
such as USAID and IDB, by lending for water supply/sewerage and housing pro-
jects aimed at improving living conditions for the urban poor, and would also
continue to emphasize rural development to support the Government's agrarian
reform efforts. New lending for infrastructure could be considered once the
immediate obstacles to development are overcome and the Government's
absorptive capacity improves. In formulating our lending program we will
continue to coordinate our efforts closely with other international and
bilateral agencies.
24.       It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public debt
disbursed and outstanding will increase slightly from its current level of
14.3 percent to about 17 percent during the mid-1980s. The IBRD share of
public external debt service has dropped substantially since the early 1970s
because of increased lending by other external agencies and a slight increase
in commercial borrowing. The Bank's share is now about 14 percent and is
projected to increase to about 16 percent by the mid-1980s.
25.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity
investment, of US$ 295,000 and US$ 55,000, respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity
investment of US$ 27,500 was made in this company. In 1968 and 1970 equity
investments totalling US$ 75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino
Celulosa de Centro America, S.A. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$ 9.0
million and an equity investment of US$ 1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V., a locally owned textile company, to help finance an expansion



- 8 -
and diversification project. IFC continues to look for investment
opportunities in Honduras. Proposals for cotton cultivation and dairy
projects are currently under preliminary consideration.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Importance of the Agricultural Sector in the National Economy
26.       Agriculture currently generates about three fourths of Honduras'
export earnings and over one fourth of GDP. The sector employs over half of
the economically active population, though most of the agricultural labor
force is still engaged in subsistence agriculture. Despite its importance in
the economy, the annual growth rate in the agricultural sector during
1970-1980 was only 1.9 percent, owing to the destruction of crops caused by
Hurricanes Fifi and Francelia, and to land tenure insecurity caused by the
Agrarian Reform in the early and mid-1970s. The agricultural economy is
dominated by bananas and coffee. Basic grains (most importantly maize),
sugar, tobacco, plantains, cotton, palm oil and citrus follow in importance.
Together, bananas and coffee account for more than half of the nation's
exports; beef, timber, and sugar account for about another fifth of the
total.
27.       The world economic recession, which has resulted in stagnant demand
and depressed prices for Honduras' main exports, combined with recent
international trading restrictions, leads to relatively weak growth prospects
for her major foreign exchange-earning exports, particularly bananas, coffee,
and sugar.  This fact, together with the continued trend toward dependence on
imported food staples, indicate a need for Honduras to increase agricultural
production in general, and to further diversify its agricultural exports.
Private investment may be expected to help to achieve this diversification,
given increased access to domestic credit and support from international
lenders., The proposed project would help to achieve these objectives.
Main Features of the Agricultural Sector
28.       Land Use.  Honduras has a land area of 11.2 million ha, of which
about four fifths is rugged mountains, and the remainder is flat to undu-
lating land. About 6.6 million ha are forests and some 1.8 million ha are
covered by eroded soils, swamps, or urban areas. The potential farmland
totals about 2.8 million ha, of which about 1.0 million ha are used as grass-
lands or lie fallow. Use of the remaining 1.8 million ha varies each year;
in 1981, 1.1 million ha were under pastures, 0.2 million ha were under per-
manent crops, and about 0.5 million ha were cultivated to seasonal crops.
29.       Production.  The agricultural sector shows a dichotomy in its pro-
ductive and social structure. The low average yields of subsistence crops,
such as basic grains, are a result of the low level of technology used by
small-scale farmers. These crops are often grown on hillsides under shifting
cultivation, which causes erosion. Most export-oriented or industrial crops,
such as bananas and tobacco, are usually grown using advanced technology and



- 9 -
in close coordination with organizations which support production and mar-
keting. Coffee is produced under both low and high levels of technology.
Livestock production, including production of dairy products, is undertaken
by both large- and small-scale farmers under a broad range of technologies.
30.       Marketing.  The marketing of major export commodities is
well-handled by the private sector, and the Honduran Marketing Institute has
had a positive effect on the marketing of basic grains. Inefficiencies occur
in the processing stage, however, usually because of overdesigned facili-
ties. The Government practices market intervention to effect price controls
for selected products, but the recent freeing of consumer price controls for
milk and meat is expected to provide needed stimulus for production of those
foods.
31.       Institutions.  The Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN), the
National Agrarian Institute (INA), and the National Bank for Agricultural
Development (BANADESA), discussed in paragraphs 37-39, are the most important
institutions in the agricultural sector. Other important organizations in
specific subsectors are the Honduran Banana Corporation, the Honduran
Corporation for Forestry Development, the Honduran Coffee Institute, and the
Honduran Agricultural Marketing Institute. MRN is responsible for animal
health, plant quarantine, research, extension, the execution of specific
projects, and some services, such as machinery rental. MRN requires
strengthening, and USAID is presently providing funds to help consolidate the
agricultural research and extension service efforts.
32.       Land Reform.  INA is responsible for land acquisition and
distribution as well as the organization, training, management, and technical
support of the peasant settler groups formed under the Agrarian Reform Law.
By mid-1981, INA had settled about 48,000 families; about 36,000 remained
organized in nearly 1,400 farmer groups, after initial desertion due to lack
of adequate infrastructure. Beneficiaries were required to join such groups
to qualify for credit from the National Development Bank. Since these groups
did not always work together effectively, however, low agricultural
production, splintered groups, and credit mismanagement often resulted.
Seventy percent of the land settled has still not been properly titled, but
carrying out the titling process is a priority of the Government, and
external financial resources for this purpose are being provided by USAID.
Government Strategy for Development of the Agricultural Sector
33.       The public investment program in agriculture is designed to
encourage export production, particularly forestry and palm oil from the
areas of Olancho and the Aguan Valley, where the agricultural frontier can
still be expanded. In addition to promoting effective land titling, the
Government intends to strengthen the agricultural sector with the development
of sound land use, watershed management practices, a new water law,
implementation of a new seed law, training of agricultural staff in public
agencies, and the improvement of management personnel policies.



- 10 -
Interest Rates
34.       In December 1982, following the trend in the international capital
markets, BCH reduced the interest rate to 17 percent per annum on short-term
loans for production credit which are financed with local resources; loans
for basic grains production have a special incentive rate of 14 percent.
There is no limit on interest rate spreads for loans financed with foreign
funds. Interest rates are reviewed quarterly in light of both inflation and
domestic and foreign financial market conditions, in order to ensure a
positive real return to domestic savers and to maintain the competitiveness
of domestic interest rates compared with rates on similar instruments in
foreign markets. Domestic inflation is currently at an annual rate of
9 percent and is expected to drop to 7.5 percent in 1984 and to 7 percent in
1985. International inflation is expected to be the same as domestic for
1984 and 1985.
The Banking System
35.       The banking system in Honduras consists of BCH, 15 commercial
banks, 3 development banks, of which one of the most important is the
National Agricultural Development Bank (BANADESA), and 9 specialized credit
institutions. BCH was established with the responsibility for formulating
and implementing monetary policy and supervising the banking system, and it
takes an active role in economic development through policy formulation,
planning, and financing. Its functions as regulatory body for the banking
system are carried out by the Office of the Superintendency of Banks, which
also undertakes external audits of projects financed by international banks,
including past and ongoing World Bank-financed agricultural credit projects.
BCH is regarded, both inside and outside Honduras, as competently managed and
adequately staffed.
Financial Intermediaries
36.       The commercial banks (11 of which participate in the ongoing Second
Agricultural Credit Project) operate 222 branches throughout the country;
BANADESA has 28 branches. The 3 largest banks--Banco Atlantida, Bancahsa and
Banco El Ahorro Hondureno--accounted for 44 percent of the total assets of
the commercial banking sector, 50 percent of all deposits mobilized, and 50
percent of the total time deposits and savings accounts of the sector as of
October 31, 1982. At the end of 1981, commercial bank assets accounted for
79 percent of the total assets of the banking sector, and 95 percent of total
deposits.
37.       BANADESA.  BANADESA was created in March 1980 from the National
Development Bank, with its activities defined more narrowly than those of its
predecessor to focus mainly on agricultural lending. Established as an
autonomous Government institution with authorized capital of L 75.0 million,
BANADESA's credit policies and annual budgets are decided by its Board of
Directors, composed of the Ministers of MRN (Chairman), Economy, Finance and
Public Credit; the Executive Secretaries of the Superior Council of Economic
Planning (CONSUPLANE) and INA; the President of BCH; representatives of



- 11 -
associations of farmers, cattlemen, and agrarian reform settlers; and
BANADESA's Executive President. Major operational decisions are made by the
Executive Committee, composed of selected Board members.
38.       Lack of resources prevented the Government from adequately
capitalizing BANADESA from the outset. Financing was needed not only for the
authorized capital of L 75 million, but also to cover a deficit of L 27.8
million inherited from the defunct National Development Bank and portfolio
losses amounting to L 12.1 million. In July 1982, the National Congress
authorized a program to provide the necessary financing by stages, to be com-
pleted in 1996. At the same time, the Congress authorized the Government to
become the guarantor of a loan given by BCH to BANADESA under favorable terms
to help reschedule loans which BANADESA owed to BCH itself. Despite
financing from the Treasury and from BCH, BANADESA's record of high operating
losses since its founding suggest that its difficulties will continue, unless
an effort is made to correct its administrative inefficiencies and increase
its rate of loan recovery. Some of BANADESA's inefficiencies result from
overstaffing combined with a lack of experienced and trained staff. In late
1982, BANADESA's staff numbered nearly 1,000, 40 percent of whom were based
in Tegucigalpa. Inefficiencies resulting from inexperienced or inadequately
trained staff can be reduced through training staff and streamlining
procedures to improve BANADESA's capacity to draft and supervise farm
development plans, reduce subloan processing time, improve field supervision
on the use of subloans, and intensify collection efforts. Some of the
difficulties are associated with lending to small farmers, especially
agrarian reform groups, to whom BANADESA is the most important institutional
lender. Groups of beneficiaries organized for the purpose of reducing the
cost of lending to them often had problems working together, and this,
combined with the more diffuse responsibility for repayment of group loans,
has contributed to delinquency problems (paragraph 32).
39.       Elimination of these problems will not be accomplished overnight,
but, considering BANADESA's pre-eminent role in channelling credit to small-
scale farmers in Honduras, it is important to strengthen the institution.
The Bank has begun a dialogue with BANADESA to establish the actions neces-
sary to eliminate its fundamental weaknesses. A condition of loan effective-
ness of the proposed project would be that BANADESA has formulated a plan of
action to eliminate the arrearage problem in its Bank-financed portfolio
(paragraph 59, below), and training would be provided to help to improve the
performance of BANADESA staff (paragraph 51). Since improved institutional
performance will depend also on sub-borrower awareness of the purpose of
institutional credit and the obligations which it entails, the training
component under the proposed project would include training for sub-borrowers
which would aim at improving their accounting and credit management skills
(paragraph 51).
Financing for Agriculture
40.       The agricultural sector is financed by both institutional and non-
institutional sources, and, although no reliable information is available
about the latter, estimates suggest that most small-scale farmers must depend
on private moneylenders and often pay usurious rates of interest, since lack



- 12 -
of collateral makes it difficult for small-scale farmers to obtain institu-
tional credit. Both BANADESA and commercial banks rely heavily on BCH's
rediscounting facility as a source of funds.
41.        In 1980-81, Honduras experienced a shortage of liquid funds, which
affected the amount of new credit granted; agriculture was particularly
affected. Most of the decrease in value of new loans in 1980-81 is explained
by the drop in coffee prices after the peak in 1977 which led to a
progressive drop in demand for credit for investment in coffee production in
1978-81. By 1981, new credit for coffee was one fifth its 1977 level.
Although lending for some non-coffee agricultural activities increased appre-
ciably during the period (lending for basic grains more than doubled, for
example), the aggregate increase was not sufficient to offset the decline in
coffee financing.
Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector
42.        To date, the World Bank Group has supported agricultural develop-
ment in Honduras through four IDA credits, totalling US$ 28.2 million, and
two Bank loans for US$ 30.5 million. Two of the IDA credits (179-HO, ap-
proved in March 1970, and 434-HO, approved in October 1973) were for commer-
cial livestock development, with the objective of strengthening the trade
balance by increasing beef exports. The first credit (for the First
Livestock Development Project) was evaluated in a Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR No. 1920) dated February 21, 1978. The PPAR concluded that,
while the project did help to increase livestock production and beef exports,
it did so in part through more extensive production rather than primarily
through improved production techniques. The Second Livestock Development
Project, approved in October 1973, continued and extended the actions of the
first project. Under both projects, it was found that fewer loans for larger
amounts were granted, compared with appraisal expectations. The Project
Completion Report (dated May 3, 1982) points out that project implementation
slowed down after the Agrarian Reform Law went into effect, owing to the
increasing land tenure uncertainty for large landowners brought about by the
Law, as well as coincident stagnation in the international demand for beef.
43.        The Bank's lending objectives for agriculture in Honduras have
changed since approval of the two livestock projects. Beginning with the
First Agricultural Credit Project, for which a third IDA Credit (628-HO) for
US$ 14 million was approved in May 1976, the Bank has been pursuing a double-
faceted strategy: to support both agricultural credit aimed at all cate-
gories of producers and multi-component investment projects aimed at reaching
a greater proportion of small-scale farmers. The Credit became effective in
December 1976, and by September 30, 1982, US$ 12.5 million had been disbursed
and all the funds were committed. One of the principal objectives of this
Project was the strengthening of the Agrarian Reform Program. It provided
credit to Agrarian Reform settlements and commercial farmers for crop and
mixed crop/livestock development, as well as technical assistance, equipment,
and training. The project also included funds for technical assistance to
strengthen MRN, INA, the Honduran Banana Corporation (COHBANA), and the
Pan-American Agricultural School.



- 13 -
44,       In April 1980, a US$ 20 million loan and US$ 5 million credit were
approved for a Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1833-HO and Credit
1005-HO). The objective of this ongoing project is to provide long-term
credit for farm development (especially for small farms), purchase of agri-
cultural machinery, and construction of municipal abattoirs. Funds were also
provided under the project for flood control and drainage works along the
Ulua River, implementation of a pilot forestry project, and various studies.
Lending has taken place for the production of a wide array of crops, in-
cluding tobacco, maize, sugarcane, cotton, citrus, and oil palm, and for bee-
keeping, small livestock, and beef cattle.  By March 31, 1983, US$ 13.2
million of the US$ 25.0 million was disbursed, about even with appraisal
expectations. In August 1982, the Bank reallocated funds originally destined
for flood control along the Ulua River to assist in the rehabilitation of
agricultural lands in the southern part of Honduras which were devastated by
tropical floods last May.
45.       Increased focus on lending to small-scale farmers under the First
and Second Agricultural Credit Projects has led to very different project
execution experience than the smaller, more narrowly focused First and Second
Livestock Projects. While fewer than 80 large-scale cattle ranchers -
benefitted under the earlier projects, the Agricultural Credit Projects have
now reached about 1800 sub-borrowers, many of whom are agrarian reform
settlers. The number of participating financial intermediaries has grown
from 7 to 12, permitting this expansion. At the same time, as a result of
the shift in focus toward small-farmer lending, BANADESA has become the most
important single participating financial intermediary, accounting for over
half of the funds on-lent to small-scale farmers. In spite of the increased
emphasis on lending to small-scale farmers and the rapid commitment of funds,
project experience has highlighted the difficulties which often accompany
efforts to accelerate institutional lending to small farmers. For example,
of the 861 subloans made by December 31, 1982, about 45 percent went to
small-scale farmers, but these accounted for only about 25 percent of the
total investment funds on-lent. The special difficulties associated with
lending to agrarian reform groups discussed in paragraphs 38 and 39 have been
experienced by BANADESA under these Bank-financed projects. Based on this
project experience, an important objective of the proposed project is to
strengthen BANADESA.
46.       The Guayape Regional Development Project represents the first Bank-
financed effort to pursue the second facet of the Bank's current agricultural
lending strategy for Honduras--support for a target-group focused, multi-
IF       component package of rural investments and services.  Bank financing for the
project is provided under Loan 1576-HO for US$ 10.5 million, approved in May
1978. The project includes on-farm investments, small irrigation schemes,
machinery pool services, rural road improvements, agricultural research
facilities, and extension services for some 1,200 small-scale farmers and 70
agrarian reform settlements (1,500 families) in the Guayape Valley. After
some initial organizational problems, implementation is proceeding well.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
47.       The Project was prepared during the second and third quarters of
1982 by BCH's Project Unit (PU) with assistance from the United Nations
Development Program's Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA) based in
Costa Rica. The Project was appraised in September 1982. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - Honduras, Third Agricultural Credit Project,"
(Report No. 4298-HO), is being distributed separately. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from April 4 to 11, 1983. The Government delegation
was led by the Vice President of BCH and included the President of BANADESA,
as well as representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Supplementary data
are contained in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
48.       The proposed project would support investments on farms and in
other rural enterprises with the objective of promoting: (a) diversifi-
cation of agricultural exports to improve the country's balance of payments,
(b) increased production and incomes in rural areas, and (c) rural employ-
ment. A further equally important objective of the project would be to
support the strengthening of the capacity of BANADESA and other financial
intermediaries (FI) to appraise, supervise, and collect subloans, and the
improvement of small-scale farmer beneficiaries' managerial and accounting
capacity. The project would provide funds for:
(a)   a nationwide credit program to finance, through rediscounting
facilities, investments in rural areas for both on- and off-farm
activities;
(b)   the incremental short-term credit needed for working capital to
complement long-term investments;
(c)   incremental PU administration costs; and
(d)   training for PU staff, the FIs' staff, including BANADESA, and
farmers.
490        Credit Component.  Ninety-six percent of baseline project costs,
US$ 70.1 million, would be on-lent to final sub-borrowers. Most of the
credit funds would be used to finance farm development, but funds could be
used to finance any rural enterprise, such as cottage brick-making or milk-
collection centers. Typical on-farm investments would include pasture devel-
opment, fencing, water supply, construction of farm buildings, machinery, and
breeding animals. Participating FIs would bear the credit risk and would
provide part of the funds, in addition to the loan officers to appraise and
supervise subloans. About 40 percent of the total credit funds are expected
to be lent to small-scale farmers, most of whom would be settlers belonging
to agrarian reform groups. Incremental short-term capital would be provided
under the project during the first 18 months of development of each



- 15 -
investment plan, and subsequently by BCH, to finance seasonal production
costs complementary to investments, such as animal feed, seed, fertilizer,
and labor.
50.       Project Unit,  The PU established by BCH in 1970 for the first
agricultural credit operation (the First Livestock Development Project) would
be maintained. Three percent of project base cost (US$ 2.2 million) would be
used for incremental staffing and equipment needs for this unit. Three new
staff positions would be required for the proposed project: a Project Deputy
Director, an Extension Specialist, and a Training Coordinator. These posts
would be filled by persons whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of
loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (e)). Financing would
be provided for the purchase of about ten vehicles, and for acquisition and
installation of a computerized management information system. Funds have
also been included for the services of consultants to be hired by the PU as
the need arises during project implementation. Fields in which the need for
ouitside expertise is anticipated include the design and maintenance of a
computerized management information system, and assistance for implementing
institutional improvements in BANADESA.
51.       Training Component.  Under the project, funds would be provided
under the supervision of the PU's Training Coordinator, for training for PU
staff, FIs' loan officers, BANADESA's staff, and small-scale farmers.
US$ 1.0 million (1.4 percent of baseline cost) has been allocated for this
purpose. PU and BCH staff who in the past have built up expertise in
agricultural technology and project analysis would now be gradually trained
in management, banking, finance, credit analysis, auditing, and crop and
animal husbandry. Training for FIs' agricultural loan officers would consist
of courses on project appraisal, credit analysis, and matters related to
agricultural sub-projects. BANADESA's loan officers would be given the same
courses separately (considering their large number), as well as a course on
loan recuperation. BANADESA's branch managers would be given general banking
courses. A major training program to strengthen the administrative,
managerial, and accounting capacity of both first- and second-tier
small-scale farmer cooperatives to promote the effective use of credit would
also be undertaken. Consultant services would be employed in some of the
training programs, particularly in training of PU staff in computer
operation. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the PU had
designed, and the Bank approved, the first year's training program (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(g)).
52.       The cost of consultant services is estimated to average US$ 10,000
per man-month; about 50 man-months of services are estimated to be required.
The hiring of all consultants would be subject to Bank approval of their
qualifications, experience, and terms-of-reference. Most consultants would
be internationally recruited (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       Total project cost is estimated at US$ 73.3 million, of which about
33 percent represents foreign exchange. Costs are based on September 1982
prices; price contingency allowances have been calculated for the PU



- 16 -
administration and training components. International inflation figures used
were 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, and 7 percent in 1985. The
forecast for domestic inflation in 1983 is nine percent; forecasts for -
subsequent years are the same as for international inflation.
54.       The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of US$ 45.0 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee of about US$ 0.20 million. The Bank
loan would finance about 61 percent of total project costs, including all the
estimated foreign exchange costs, the front-end fee, and about US$ 20.2
million of the local costs. Financing for some local costs has been included
both because the foreign exchange component is relatively low, and because of
the present and forseeable poverty of the country, as discussed in paragraph
15, above. Sub-borrowers would finance US$ 8.8 million (12 percent), FIs
would finance US$ 7.7 million (10 percent) and BCH would finance US$ 12.6
million (17 percent) of total project costs. Tables showing project costs
and the financing plan are contained in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report.
Project Implementation
55.       BCH would be the principal executing agency, operating through an
Executive Committee (paragraph 56, below) and the PU. A Subsidiary Loan
Agreement would be signed by BCH and the Government as a condition of loan
effectiveness (paragraph 62, below) (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
BCH would rediscount long-term subloans for agricultural development and
rural enterprises and short-term subloans for incremental working capital
complementary to investments made by public and private financial
intermediaries participating under the project. Each FI would sign a Project
Administration Contract (PAC) with BCH specifying, inter alia, the relending
arrangements for loan proceeds (paragraphs 63-66, below). it would be a
condition of effectiveness that four PACs, one of which must be BANADESA's,
have been signed by BCH and the relevant FI and approved by the Bank (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
56.       Project Executive Committee.  An Executive Committee, to which the
PU Director reports, has been established under the ongoing Second
Agricultural Credit Project. Since the Committee as currently defined has
proven too large, the Committee would be restructured under the proposed
project. The new committee, to be established by December 31,1983, would
comprise senior representatives of: BCH (Chairman), MRN, BANADESA, and the
Honduran Association of Banking Institutions (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(a)). The Committee would monitor the lending program and the PU's
budget, and approve the annual evaluation and auditor's reports.
57.       Project Unit.  The PU would be responsible for overall project
implementation. It would expand its activities in the Department of Olancho,
which has become more accessible due to the upgrading of a major road from
Talanga to Catacamas financed under the Bank's Seventh Highway Project.
Specific responsibilities of the PU would include: review and approval of
farm development plans; supervision of FI administration of subloans;
coordination of training provided under the project (Training Coordinator);
promotion and coordination of technical assistance for sub-borrowers, using



- 17 -
the appropriate existing institutions (Extension Specialist); monitoring of a
sample of beneficiaries and completion of interim and ex post evaluation
reports on the impact of credit on beneficiaries' welfare (monitoring and
evaluation unit); and completion and submission to the Project Executive
Committee of quarterly progress reports and annual evaluation reports, in
addition to the reports usually required for agricultural credit projects.
To provide all FIs with standard guidelines for preparation, appraisal, and
supervision of investment plans, and for monitoring and collection of
subloans, the PU would draft a credit manual to detail such guidelines. The
credit manual would specify, inter alia, that a minimum rate of return
criterion would be met by all approved investment plans. It would be a
condition of loan effectiveness that the credit manual has been submitted to
and approved by the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).
58.       Financial Intermediaries.  FIs would be selected according to a
number of criteria, including: satisfactory experience and good performance
in agricultural lending; adequate financial condition and management;
adequate managerial, administrative, and technical capabilities at national,
regional, and branch levels; adequate technical staff to be assigned to the
project in terms of number, experience, and qualifications; and an adequate
network of branch offices. Once an FI's eligibility is determined, its (PAC)
would be drawn up. It would be a condition of disbursement to an FI that its
PAC has been signed by it and BCH (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(b)). FIs would be responsible for preparing and appraising
investment plans, supervising the use of funds by sub-borrowers, and
collection of subloans.
59.       BANADESA.  Because of its serious delinquency problem and its
importance in agricultural lending, there would be three conditions of loan
effectiveness related to BANADESA (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(f)).
First, BANADESA would prepare and furnish to the Bank a satisfactory Loan
Recovery Plan for its Bank-financed portfolio (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.03(a)). Such plan would include a timetable for reaching specified
targets. Second, BANADESA would have to: (i) establish a Coordination Unit
(CU) whose task would be to improve overall performance, especially loan
collection; and (ii) appoint a manager for the CU whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.03(c)). BANADESA has informed the Bank that this condition has already
-41        been met with the assistance of two experienced staff from BCH's PU, who were
seconded to BANADESA in October 1982. This condition of effectiverness would
be fulfilled upon BCH's furnishing to the Bank satisfactory evidence that the
If        CU has been established and adequately staffed.  Third, the terms of
reference of loan officers would be redefined in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, to consolidate their duties in respect to lending operations (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(d)). Until now, each loan officer has been
responsible for only one phase of loan administration. Under the redefined
terms of reference, each would be responsible for a specific portfolio of
loans, from appraisal through disbursement and supervision, to loan
collection. This third condition of effectiveness would be fulfilled when
BANADESA has furnished to the Bank the loan officers' new terms of reference.



- 18 -
60.       Special obligations which BANADESA would fulfill during project
implemention would also be spelled out in its PAC. The contract would
require, inter alia, that: quarterly reports on the status of subloan col-
lection in its Bank-financed portfolio and semi-annual audited reports of its
Bank-financed accounts would be sent to the Bank; BANADESA would achieve the
collection targets specified in its Loan Recovery Plan for its Bank-financed
portfolio (see also Section 3.03(b) of the Loan Agreement); and BANADESA
would maintain the CU throughout project implementation (see also Section
3.03(c) of the Loan Agreement).
61.       To begin to address BANADESA's overall institutional and portfolio
problems, BANADESA's PAC would also require that BANADESA complete, by June
30, 1984, a major review of its organizational and financial position.
Particular emphasis would be placed on financial programming, overall lending
procedures, including the use of guarantees and the granting of credit for
non-agricultural purposes, portfolio management, staffing, and training.
Special attention would be paid to the overall loan portfolio, arrears, and
collection targets. BANADESA would discuss the findings of the review report
with the Bank and would implement the agreed recommendations, which would
include a Loan Recovery Plan for its overall portfolio.
Channelling of Funds and On-lending Terms
62.       The Government would relend to BCH the full amount of the proposed
loan under the same lending terms agreed upon with the Bank, in accordance
with a Subsidiary Agreement to be signed by the Government and BCH. BCH
would bear the foreign exchange risk. As implementing agency, BCH would
agree to: (a) maintain the existing revolving funds created to speed dis-
bursement for credit operations and for PU expenditures (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.09(f)); and (b) provide adequate counterpart funds
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01). In addition, all funds repaid to
BCH by FIs that are not needed for payments to the Government under the
Subsidiary Agreement would be used for additional lending for purposes
similar to those defined under the project (draft Project Agreement, Section
3.02). The Bank and BCH would, at the request of either and in joint
agreement, review the lending terms and conditions during the execution of
the project (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Section III, para. 13), to
assure that real interest rates remain positive as well as competitive with
similar lending instruments, both in Honduras and in international markets.
63.       BCH would rediscount subloans to FIs at 1.5 percent over the Bank's
standard variable rate for the semester in which the rediscounted subloan
contract was signed, rounded to the nearest half-point. The rediscount rate
would be fixed for the period of amortization, which would be the same term
as the corresponding subloan. In addition to the rediscount rate, BCH would
charge a one-percent commitment fee on the amount of subloans approved but
undisbursed by FIs as an incentive to the latter to speed loan processing.
Loans rediscounted with BCH would be denominated in lempiras, and the FIs
would assume the credit risk, although BCH would restore the liquidity of an



- 19 -
FI adversely affected in the event that the land on which an investment plan
was being carried out was expropriated under the Agrarian Reform Law. This
would be done through a mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
established by the Government by March 31, 1984 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04, and draft Project Agreement, Section 2.10). The above terms
and conditions of FI participation would be spelled out in the PAC of each
FI.
64.       Subloans would be made to any person or group with a sound invest-
ment plan for farm development or for non-farm activities related to agri-
culture in rural areas (defined as being outside the urban limits of
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula). Short-term subloans would be made only for
incremental working capital needs complementary to long-term investments.
Interest on the outstanding balance of a subloan would be fixed for the life
of the subloan and paid by sub-borrowers at an effective rate of 5.5 points
above the Bank's lending rate established for the semester in which the sub-
loan conitract is signed (this is the same spread as permitted under the
ongoing Second Agricultural Credit Project. Repayment terms would reflect
the capacity of the investment to generate net revenues as indicated by the
cash flow projections of the investment plan. Investment subloans would be
made for a period of at least 18 months and for not more than 12 years
including a maximum grace period of five years. Short-term credit subloans
would be repaid in 18 months or less. FIs would be permitted to charge a
penalty fee on arrears of interest and principal.
65.       It is expected that 40 percent of the total value of subloans would
go to small-scale farmers, defined as those who derive at least 75 percent of
family income from farming activities and have net assets valued at no more
than US$ 40,000 or are beneficiaries of the agrarian reform under Chapter I,
Title IV of the Agrarian Reform Law. Subloans for small farmers would
finance up to 90 percent of the cost of their investments; farmers could con-
tribute their 10 percent share in cash, labor, or in kind. For large
farmers, defined as those whose net assets exceed US$ 400,000 equivalent,
subloans would finance up to 70 percent of their investment. For other
farmers and sub-borrowers with non-farming enterprises, subloans would
finance up to 80 percent of the investment. Short-term subloans made to any
beneficiary would be 100 percent rediscounted, in keeping with existing
rediscounting procedures used by BCH.
66.       All investment plans would be prepared by FIs.  Appraisal
procedures would be simplified for subloans of US$ 35,000 equivalent or
less. Subloans for more than US$ 35,000 would require a detailed appraisal,
as currently used under ongoing Loan 1833-HO. In the case of lending to a
farmers' group with shared credit responsibility, a detailed analysis of the
group's managerial skills would be undertaken by the Fl staff, who would, in
such cases, be guided by PU staff. The FIs would also be responsible for
disbursing subloans to sub-borrowers and supervising their use of the funds.
The first 10 subloans to agrarian reform (or other farmers') groups, all
investment subloans of US$ 200,000 equivalent or above, and subloans which,
combined with the value of subloans made under previous Bank Group loans or
credits totalled US$ 200,000 equivalent or more, would be sent to the Bank
for review prior to approval for financing. The cumulative ceiling for



- 20 -
investment subloans under the terms applicable to small-scale farmers would
be US$ 35,000; for groups of small-scale farmers, the maximum would be the
equivalent of US$ 35,000 multiplied by the number of members of the group
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Section II, paras. 9-10).
Procurement
67.       Both the investment and the seasonal inputs to be purchased through
the credit component would be for a widely dispersed number of farmers to
cover a variety of activities and therefore would not be suitable for
procurement through bulk purchasing or international competitive bidding.
Foreign firms are represented in Honduras, and all procurement undertaken by
sub-borrowers would be done through normal commercial channels, which are
adequate. Whenever practicable, but for all purchases of US$ 50,000 or more,
the FIs would require that sub-borrowers obtain quotations from at least
three suppliers. Vehicles and equipment for the PU, which are estimated to
cost about US$ 270,000 equivalent, would be subject to ICB when grouped in
packages of US$ 100,000 or more.  For packages of less than US$ 100,000,
local competitive bidding procedures would be followed. All draft contracts
and terms of reference for consultants would be subject to prior review by
the Bank; most consultants would be internationally recruited.
Disbursement
68.       The loan is expected to be fully disbursed in four years.
Disbursements for the credit program would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOB). The documentation supporting the SOE would be kept by
the PU and made available to the Bank during project supervision and audit
inspections. Disbursements requested for all other components would be
supported by standard documentation. Disbursements from the Bank would be
for 69 percent of amounts previously disbursed by FIs for all subloans; this
global disbursement percentage was calculated as the weighted average of the
Bank's share in the financing plan for the credit component. Disbursements
for non-credit components would be made at 100 percent for foreign
expenditures and 58 percent for local expenditures, except that disbursements
for materials, services and salaries for the PU would be for 58 percent of
local expenditures only.
Project Benefits
69.       Through the provision of long-term financing for investment in the
rural areas, the project would help to diversify agricultural production for
exports and thereby contribute to a reduction of Honduras' dependence on
coffee and banana exports. Increased production of basic food crops would
encourage better nutrition and provide increased raw material for the under-
utilized food processing industry. It is estimated that some 6,000 sub-
borrowers would be financed under the project, of whom about 90 percent would
be small-scale farmers, including those organized in groups. It is expected
that about 40 percent of the credit funds would be lent to such small-scale
farmers. Direct benefits to sub-borrowers would be increased income
resulting from investments. Including families of sub-borrowers, the number
of direct beneficiaries is estimated at some 36,000 persons. Assuming that



- 21 -
investments made under the proposed project would follow the same pattern as
those under the ongoing project, it is estimated that 14,000 new jobs would
be created.
70.       The project's training component is expected to make a significant
contribution to the upgrading of skills of FIs, particularly BANADESA. The
special technical assistance provided to BANADESA by BCH is aimed at
strengthening its organization and administration. Training to be provided
to small-scale farmers would improve credit management by small farmers'
groups and by second-tier cooperatives. Benefits would accrue to the
Government of Honduras in the form of incremental fiscal revenues from
increased export tax revenues, particularly from commodities such as beef,
tobacco, and bananas, from reduction of financial support to BANADESA, and
from increased internal sales tax revenues on domestic marketing of farm
produce.
Economic and Financial Analysis
71.       Since farmers and entrepreneurs would be free to choose their
investment plans in response to shifting relative prices of commodities,
computation of an aggregate financial or economic rate of return is not
appropriate. Analyses of four illustrative farm models, chosen as represen-
tative on the basis of past experience, yielded financial rates of return
ranging from 19 to 37 percent. Economic rates of return calculated for the
same models ranged from 26 to 49 percent.
Project Risk
72.       The main risk of the project relates to the amount of and speed
with which credit funds under the proposed loan can be channelled to small-
scale farmers. Despite substantial assistance from international lending
agencies, usually in the form of studies and financial aid, BANADESA is still
inefficient and in serious financial difficulties. There is a risk that
BANADESA's participation may be suspended as a result of failure to achieve
its targets under its Loan Recovery Plan. In this case, the level of lending
to small-scale farmers would be affected, since BANADESA is the main channel
for such loans. To minimize this risk and improve BANADESA's operations,
technical assistance and strengthening of BANADESA is provided under the
proposed project.
73.       Three financial instruments, in various stages of preparation,
would help to encourage a larger participation in small-scale farmer lending
by commercial banks. First, INA's land titling program, partially financed
by USAID, would increase banks' security in lending to small farmers by re-
solving land tenure uncertainty. Second, BCH has announced that it will
create a pilot limited-guarantee fund for private banks that would partially
guarantee subloans to small farmers whose collateral is insufficient to
qualify them for bank credit. Third, the increased use of chattel mortgages
could provide an effective mechanism to facilitate lending to small farmers.
A study to be financed under the project would explore ways to increase legal
protection for banks which employ such mortgages, thus making them practical
and attractive instruments for the institutions to use.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committees provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern of
loans for agricultural credit projects, and their more important features and
special conditions have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section
III of Annex III to this report. There are six special conditions of
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement: (i) that the new posts of Project
Deputy Director, Extension Specialist, and Training Coordinator in the
Project Unit have been filled; (ii) that the Government and BCH have signed a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (iii) that BANADESA and at least three other FIs
have signed Project Administration Contracts with BCH; (iv) that a credit
manual has been drafted by the PU and approved by the Bank; (v) that BANADESA
has established and staffed a Coordination Unit, redefined the terms of
reference of its loan officers in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and
prepared and furnished to the Bank a satisfactory Loan Recovery Plan for its
Bank-financed portfolio; and (vi) that the first year's training program has
been designed by the PU and approved by the Bank. It would be a condition of
disbursement for each participating FI that it has signed a Project
Administration Contract with BCH.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 2, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                         ANNEX I
page 1  Page  1  of  6
TABLE 3A
HONDUkAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                     REFERENCE CROUS (WEIGITED AVEWES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XX.)                                                         - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL          K112.1 /                              HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOKE           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     51.6              1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARISBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (U$)>                180.0       270.0    560.0  Lk              1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    146.6        244.4    238.1                  1259.9                   2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 1942.0      2640.0   3691.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.8       28.7     35.6                    65.7                     47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     6.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      17.3        23.6      31.8                   35.2                     83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    38.7        53.5      69.1                   92.5                    155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        45.6        47.4      47.8                   39.7                     31.1
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        50.1     49.5                    56.1                     61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.1         2.5      2.7                     4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.3         3.1       3.4                    2.4                      1.6
URBAN                             5.8         5.4       5.5                    3.8                      3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.1        49.3     45.2                    31.4                     23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    18.8        14.7     11.1                     8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5         3.6      3.3                     2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        12.7      23.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      9.0/..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         83.0        97.0      82.0                  110.0                    116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.7        94.6     93.3/e                 108.4                    125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         57.8        55.2      52.1/;i                66.0                     92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      21.6        20.0      17.8/e                 34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    30.0        19.1       9.8                    5.6                      9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   46.5        52.5     58.3                    64.2                     67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         144.7       117.4     88.5                    64.2                     65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                            12.1        34.0     46.0/d                  65.6
URBAN                            42.9         ..      82.0/?                  78.9
RURAL                             2.7         ..       27.0/i                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        24.0     26.0/f                  59.3
URBAN                              ..        64.0     53.0/f                  75.3
RURAL                              ..         9.0      13.0/?                 30.0
*                     POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        12610.4      3793.1/A  3293.9/e                1617.3                  1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      1132.6    872.2/e                1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           622.8       581.0     712.9/e                477.4                    286.8
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                   679.8                    192.0
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        20.0     29.1/e                  27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.7         ..
URBAN                             5.5         ..
RURAL                             5.7         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.4          ..
URBAN                             1.8         ..
RURAL                             2.7         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            14.6          ..     25.0/h
URBAN                            56.7         ..      67.1/i.
RURAL                             1.9         ..       5.5/



- 24 -                                                ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA2ES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MDST RECENT              MIDDLE INOKE            MIDDLE IME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0        87.0       89.0                    104.3                     102.4
MALE                 68.0         87.0      92.0                    106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               67.0         89.0      85.0                    103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0        14.0       21.0                     41.3                      60.2
MALE                  8.0         14.0      20.0                     40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                7.0         13.0      22.0                     41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 23.8           17.0      24.9/f                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.8        35.3       35.4/e                   29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           9.7           ..      16.6/?                   16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        45.0         57.0/h    60.0/f                   79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.8         4.8        6.4/d                   42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         64.4        55.7       49.4                    270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         8.3       13.8                    107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.2/i         ..      62.6                     63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       616.9       793.3    1073.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   12.3        12.7       13.8                     24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.2        66.5       62.6                     31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.6        12.5       14.6                     23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.8        30.0       29.1                     33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 55.3        52.3       50.0                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                                7.9         7.7        8.1                     16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.7        1.7                      1.3                       0.9
NCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         67.8/         .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         2.3         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         7.37
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY lNCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                ..           ..     255.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     180.0                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     251.0                    518.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       80.0                    371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      14.0                       ..                        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      54.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Jb   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most RecentEstimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1973; /d 1976; /e 1977; /f 1975; /I Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /h 1974; /i 1962; /I 1967.
/k   1980 estimate; most recent estimate  for 1981 is USS 600.0.
/1   FAO overestimated agricultural  land.   Country data is 29.2 thousand  sq.km.
May 1982



- 25 -                                                                                    ANNEX  I
D"ITICUSOF SMIALMIC&TOWPage    3   of   6
Mete;  Althoug  the data arc dran from source  generaly judged the soar  utboltatl- sad reIa.ble, it should  lso he  -seZ thea they say aot he ilae-
a     -ioalyc -rble  bet oue  of the lack of atadoodloed defluifioo  od couce.Pta used by differout coetls  i  colotig  he dt..  Th  data ar,noe
chelsea. suful to desceihe orders of  Iautd . lodlcat  trends, aud oao tote .crtt  aajo  differenes                   -oeaoootri.
Thrreernc  groups are I1) the oao   utry gooop of the auhi-t --uocy ai  f2)acoo...ory grop with sosetat higher  -ottge ioos.                  ho.  hecucr  group
ofhthe sbjac       ofyfoetfor " lgjocose   ff1  up-cteru'S gop wee"iddle Iocos  North Afficu  ud Mfiddle Etact' to hoseo becaus  ofstoger
wdocfraafffflolae)  .    the cFefer-  gropetr the aretgen ore popuIloga  enghted -raont1  seauc for each  odloe-tr .ud eh-e osly whe
sajority of the c-utrlesinar            ls  u   f-r that  odicetoc   110-  the c-eoge of -outrier aneu  the  ulctr  depeuds -c the  -ullailtlly of data
adIn  -e  ruifora, cu-tto  tot:eg   eurlodl  re              --g orgts of one iodictnotoaeter    hte aeraocaceouy useful to c                         lar  he value of
oue lodicotor ata  tine amog the  -uotoy and egcoc   rus.W
AlgA (thaucaud tq.ks.)                                                                          Pu~2 Slti,c   e Hoc  .lof d - total  -ehu, and trura  - Pupuluthn  toal
Total   Toto  outfae occ  -oeicilal  laud area sed ileld wato; 1979 dato.                 urbt. atd rua) dielded hy their ceretiranmbro  h.clebd
dodoaua    gemip of ogololcralare  u          -d eporally or p-rssocly                  availble  epbli   n   roaegerI'odpollodhapt1~e
o.r cropo, p           -tccscet gad kitcheu gordru  or to lie fallow; 1979 data.             hbhlioenlooceulee.  HoePitlsl are oetbhlfhaent  p-raeuay staffed
hy o1 Irot ot. Pbyslteia.  Esttblisbhtnt  pr-odlg pciltopalyp  -ous
Cla PS  CAITA(Ci   -ClyPec capita ecritmate  at carest aerket pco. cc-                      dilcr   r   e  nldd              ua   epIaPs  he-cter   Inlde health
ouleted hy sr,a    -  ..rruo leihlbd tc Wurld Beolk All.a (1978-80 heels); 1960.                aed sedicsl --ner  out prseul   teggd hr a pitystili   (hut bya
19 70. oud 198t dot.-                                                                           medi.lc.acaIot.ore  midif.a, etc.)  lihb offer Lo-petieutaco -
dstot _od pruoids a limIed.  rouge of sedical facilities.  Foe staic
EgNscy CONStacIOng  Pua CAPLITA - A-1u-l cu-uptu- of cu-c-iu1 a-ry (coal                          tica   pu bote  o h..peuotcle  helede tHO.tuPicr/esrl                 sta.
oud liguit., peto-1-   etua  gas sod hydro-, nucea  sod geoterma  alc-ad cora  heapltaa, laca  or corel heoplrala oud sediloa  ssdaern
* iricty) ft Ailgoas  of cool eqosle-t par capita; 196,I7, tl.  e  19791                        te-e-a  ipotilised be-ritols arc inodd oly ordert tota.
data.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Admitcheos"Icr Hlesoita1 Bed - local natnt of esa   orc dtacbarges
foo  hopitlsl dfoldod by the number of heda.
POPULATION ANit VITAL iTATISTICS
Tuilt  ralsfn  gdTec  tounda) - he of JulY 1; 1960. 19701..od 1980                         gOgSiga
dat.                                                                                      Average Slaa of    huc ld fpersn   e  h,,'hd  -  totl ura,ad cuta1-
fries  Touedo.   elsrc.nf of caol) - 'eie of crhau to total  -popueroI                         A houehed  toeie  of a troop io.duvodua1a et   hro lana   gu-rore
difgfeo  delfti-iu   of urha  oct5  ay affect c..pralillcyp of d-t                            cud theft main seals.  A boardee o  lodger may ormy out he  .lnidtd in
0.                              asou~~~~~~~~g c..uutniaa; 1960, 1970. ead 1980 dota.                                          the houshold furaaitclpu-p.se..
fPorulaio  In iceor 210     Curceo  .poplctlu projectiuua ore based or1990                   hero  pesnPetroir  all uchot, os   ualocped.                  conventIo
total poplati- hr age oud aco aod thei  mcslitoadtrifrae.                                  desllioga. r-crecirly.  os-llfuga cooids  e-esuacrcue   n
Project in  parnaertl for aurtaity cttst c_piasore   e_laam-                               oaopied parts
lug life  uetuc  at blhir        ioeso    ith cuoutoy'a per cpita brute                  Acoesa no ileottloicit  eercourl of dsollogs -. total, ocher, end ral.-I
dens), and fcsa.le ife supeot-y  taiblioiog at 77.)oa.  T'he Para-                         Cars-Cfo...  dssllfg   510 ceio,t'rlody do Ifoa"g qartera a  percercga
frtes in  fetil ity outs alco here three levels eanc-ig de-lior to                     of sotul, urhas, ad rural  dec11ige5a-epctOrely.
Oeltill'tyatosdin  to f-oos  lr-l and pea  fondly clouiog parfon-t..
la-h cro-try In Ibht  .ucfgoed ous of nheae soot  -obtuottc  of soc.ialy              EDUCATIONt
cud ferti lit y tret do fur projection purposec.                                         AdJoute  icls Rtgtfo
btotio.car ourolatiao-ocuntoiouary  pplto here is or gooch circa                     Primar  shool - totol. male and femalt - CIrosa  "tota,sloadca
the  ilhfrtletolas qoa1toh.edotihai-.au-dalnotbh.ageafrc--ac                                  ool uola               atshe prlsocylauaopcenat                     -peorttiv
-sa-   - -atu.  Thia to -ebdeed ouy lufer fctiliOy c-co  d-oldor topIay  er-o P-'                                  -ocatoc;orsly io-lode  olldone.                 6I
the rerlaoasu  feud  of otft  -o  -ep-du-ticu  rate. w     ouch ges--t-o                     yucca has adjusted for differooc 1eugths of potor  aoctin;fot
ofveurplcnitault scotly.  The sntlt orly po,ulati- ato  so                                    ucrisawt  ooI-era-   dctInetllsts  asced  i  peccont
-ci-otd .. tho banao  ch  po oca            chrto tetc  of the pooclotb-                      niu-  -o  popila are below or  boo- the offIcial  Ico  ag.
Iibysr 2000,. ad thc ools of delise of f...iflity -rotc n  replac-                    be-uaocho      ca,sle tod femole, - Computed aabove; secondary
"oot I-tl                                                                                    tdcIfueo csatlat four peora of appr...ed poisory I...atroi;
Tsratsnoay  uultu   is re-rha    T1hu pe-  hbec  -tutirory p-iao                                 rod.s geoa,cuttoa,o  t-ea cc tra                      ..r  IngIsrc  ots for pupIls
.i.. bhecoced,                                                                        usaly of 12 t           =7oar f .'go; orepueo    orti are            . gsrll1y
Per so. km     N id-yea  poyc 1ltiat par sqar  kfl-sett  (100 hectates) ofVltoticua cnulat(pertet of csoondury) - Oortiofl Ia  0tiftotitou
ltotlara  190  1970  Ic 179dae.olud   Inchelca:l,                                                                  utfl  octeprfmawIch operatt iod.erd-
Par a. km.oarlc ltta  lu,     Csputad as abi- fur agriculturl lord                       -Ily  or O  deoosut   f  coneyiftutt .7
oul;  96.1970 etd 1979 data..                                                           rurl-t ohtrtio     riay  adid a-cod-y-lTuta1lutdotos..roiled Ic
Poruluithoc'''~... blotuor fperc..t) - Chfldreo 1D-14 ytar), wutbiug-age Ill-                   prImay ord aecudor  l-cladvid ed by nubers or  toahera It uth
hi pea-).asd retiredf65 yeeruaud -csr)as Or--stg- ofuid-yeor pcp-                             --rep-uding lctl..
leit;16,  91  god 19fdt,autltrc ue ecu)-Literat  odelta fable to trod aud onto)
I.....io  I'toth Aut  (cercot) -. tot-l -    -iou  gro-h rtote  of total aId-               usapretg ftotal  dadut poycIlatlo  gtd lb yeara .od  -ur-
yea  pupuloti 00 fur 1951-h, 1960-701. cd 1970-f0.
Pooato  ioth hae (percor) - arhun - auncl gr-oh cutos of urban pope-                 CPONSfPTION
ltioes fur 1950-hI, 1960-70. oud 1970-80.Pac..grCoro (Pot thousn   uualr       ouogrcr   uats   or
Crude Birth Rate frprthocaod)   Al-bcul lit. births pot ihoicud of  id-yoor                     tan  tt u  ln  ta  egt p.ren;) ou oo   .blutc   sre   n
pplt"uu  190   970.  lr 00dt-                                                             sf inoryroir.
Crud sooh Acs for  hoouodd  -An.o-I dootha yet thousan~d  fO  id-ytar                    udic istloeirs fPre tboca-d  olltc)-All typ.u of  -nec-r  for radio
popolasOet; 1960. 1970. and 1990 dar.-                                                        hrca.dcttgeeapuIcprhocdofpplo ;cldro-
Icesagertducton A ta-orroe oober  ft duoghoero a  oo   ill hoar It .oua   etnr   ccui o   u   uoaaso  rgilutaito;                                              nl
hoc coo1 rcprufcctfvs Period if she rcporit-tw   prea..ut age-spacific ft-                    u'la ass to affet; data fo eot y-ur  say oct he com.arable sioe
tflllyra        ..u.souly fv--y-ar  -vtget ..di.& ft 19600, 1970, aed 1990                   sou   otrt   boIhdIcrig
,,flPltI,g-ccst-r.Aoue(tbuaud                -dnatueotcpec                               TV tRleiv-r  fre  theuaand  opaloIIo)Ty  rcover  fcr broad-tnn
ofbirt-tuutrol.  de icenoder  ayouo   oiolfsa    ltlg prcgu-                                goc.ral publIc Par chetuad PoPulaIo;crldaolieedTrolaa
Faalyviaelo-tsfrrco  ofaucrfcdtoseu) - rercoo-                       f     lmried               fuco -ttienad in yrac- whe  -cegtrani-of T  sets so  Ii effe-t.
Ioo   of  =hl-buin,g egg. (1-44 ye',.) who acbirth-c...r-1  druoa  o                    se-ae Ctcultlin fre  thousan  o.uot )-.be t~.         S      he  -terage d-
al   ocld souIt  aa  g  aroup.                                                           eulatiut  f"daigora  iuteroct -ewepspo' detue  anopridi-Il
Puhitau   devote-d primarily ic recrdiug  get.ro  scan   It.1L laornidered
PlWD AND7 NUoTRIION                                                                               tohle `dau~l" if it aPIrper  at leant foot tisosasocA.
lsdo  f fndProucfetmcCapta)199-W10)    ldnu o  per  ro-caauuo                  Cifo       A -c-i-l Atteodnsos Pre  Crito  Ire  Teu,r-lued on the    b cd el o
prduction of oil food c-soditlsa   Prod-otfo   -icdan seed and feed aod                     tickets sold dollog the yer. ft-ldlugadsI.i...o to d,nut-f  olnso
is -ocaene  ma Ye    iu   CoedIdes coer oMsoy gdfa- sagar....                             an _soil  units.
buted  f sga)- eih  rc  edible and rottorlnuf-. tffe sod
teoaeeolds)    gogl  productio  of teh  o...ilry is base.d 00LABOR9 PORCE
natibora rrge Prducor priceowighti;-1961-ho, 1970, oud lg9Ij data.                         Total Labor Porte fth..a..dn) - itocomlta-ly attIc   ponu,tclediug
pot ..,it. uol   f-cloriou  borotnof ruttet)- l~otpod f-ror                                    a tedfrco and oseuplayed hot  -tIldti.  hoouasi-,  -nd-nlo, et.,
etoetp equfo-la  of net feud  -pcr l:o a.allcbIaio ou-rry per -ayla                          c-neclg popu1laIon of allIgro-  Deftit lots. In carl 000  catisa  -
Per day.  Arol1ablo soyplac  coep-rlo  d_ocl  prducl    iwppolens Ic.t..ral   1960, 1970 end I08O data.
Iuut,odcagaf  uc,ck.1  iet -opplica eulude actul fta,d,,seeds.                              rFmalt lee--t) - rFmaLlbo  forte an p.reotage of -tota  labor fon--
qutIluud in Pfo   rce u , ad isten In dilutfult    oufo                                     giitref ot)-lborforte In f-rnig, fort.try, h-ttaug and
so ,t  -ir eoleod by  40 baasd on rhysilolglc-I te.ds for norma  acti-                      fih      sprrgo of tocl.  luhor fott; 1960. 1978 and gIdao
tin  aid  ecaltI   -inodertn  olrootleoetuobdyogt,ao                                           dstofoco) - LabOr forte Ic  i-t9 ontuc lw  so                    Iat:.i
aud  ..n dlotrlbotlo    frpltc.od  lto   Ipr o  for  eafnatodeleioicltyq, sato  aid go anr-rcotoe of t-tl lbrfre
hoshl bou;16-l -17        dd17  data.,                                                  1960. 1970...wed..1990 data.-
Par carfie uu-rl of prtlol factor pr day) -, i -r-ftott  of p.c capIta                       Patcrto  t1(ooo)     oa,sl, and female - Partiofpatii    or
oat oply of food per day   be  oppy of foed Ido dffd a- abate   R.o                           acvoreurtt oe   .. ..ot, sale, cod female labor forea
qureei=      fr  l  ouoriiotoblinhed by USDA pr-ide for ilcso                                Pere"oSla  of total  acs  sdf-la ypuPlutiuo of al  agesouprtey
aloucsof 61  r              Ps fIo  p1ii;r6dy0d2  tuso   tia   o                         i, 1970, oud 1990  dec,        .ccre based  orn'sprtirfotl    rte
polar potafo.  f whic     I rae- uhould hrCoim1 protoio.  These  -tad-                  ref leotiog uge-aeo  -t--treofth  pnuafo,ad loug lis  tred.  A
aulsal pruteir  0 ,   aota Bellc the dodId,.proped by PA0 to the Obicd                     Itotuic Deoodo..cy Bello - Aulo. orppicicoder 15 evd i5 and oe
v                                     F.S~~~~~~Ora  odOrvy   96-y   970  ud 1977 dta,                                        to lbs total labor forte,
V                            ~~~~~Par c-pioprteI.   sP iyfco  cfo   nod yol-Proteio  ..pply of toed do-
rio-d fro   nilmal Ird pules to -ros  par da,1961-65. 1970 aud 1977 dutb.                19101f DISTRIBUTIONi
Child )-ra 1-4), laut  Auts feet thoosaud)     o        deeths yet tholuoud It               Pe-r-o-na.gc of Pclu-e brute fbotb  in coal atd kind> - Autoiced byrihs
agrg-oupl-   yors. lecbhldr- lonthisage group, fcrs_utd-rtloying coio--lcotn,rfchbet 20rrtp--oe 2t lpcrlten,a-d poruut 40 Ptrctot
trios dolt dwrivcd frwe life tablos; 1960, 1070 and 8080 dato                                of households..
lIfeture Ep atco at tlrn  )ynro    Ar-page ousber of yeurt of life rcsoioint                 The fololgi esIaeienvr               upruste saraof poutly le-I.o,
at birth; 196., 197  ad190. data.                                                            ad wheuld he  uterprlcd sorb' -oncderaile taucia
blown llnlity Aut f~rettoad)-o.-Ia dewnia of i~fautsonder                      Y- pa         Estlmated Ahulote P-nety Iccoso Level ff0 P'r capftaf -oronsd rotc  -
ofae t. houtod lIve blrtha; 1960. I1970 and I98O gate-'                                Absoto po-ety istoma lsoal Is that moose  .ovef haloswihaiIa
Acsto afs ae  f          Irco   f ooooutioi) -tonl, orh-, aId rccl   M- .ts-stritio...ly  adaqout  dIrt pJoseaoil sos-teed rqfsn.is ac
beofppl(ttloro,adtrdwihr asael  aoa   asfaffordable.
001t  su:pply .(Includes trete.  srfced     tes-ofnisfe  h nunottta.td                      mtaedbeaivePvetyluos  or   fIt prtopia)-  tuSsoettu 
percutuges of the itereaiepapalatiuns.  Iou-otbaoa-ecapubllc                                 p.r--o   iscuse of the  -uunY.  Urbee 1-n1 u5 dentied fos ohe rural
foutsae o  atids          -lcted nu  mar  that 209 manors from a house say be                le-r  with ajutset  fur hbrs coa  of hu,,5  to orbauau 
rlidorsd asbring  ilubin  ouus- l  aesso of that hwas   Intotal1 cres.a.a.dPuuaia   av  pAslln   oet  cnhte  rrec    
re.soseble .ounse. ..Id Impl  then the       ~ hassfe  resb    of tshaussbld                 an   ud     - Pers  of populatlo  (orbs. adrrl   lo  e   aal
do cot hate ao spod adlaprep-tsesaao Par ef the day  do forchdug theP
Acces sogcea   1aoa  (torrent  of po-eaIor-) - total. urbso. and rurl  -
N. Ita  of People (total. orbac-   orrl  seve   y  ute  diapse...as
cb   slieg. elddsoal   st useirli..os tR`-a i. cf -s   strata.
an lat-ear I,:byyetr-eso      tene  or the use of cit  lorinis   nd sim-
powala-ieu car Obtebpie  - Pepalacio   dlided by ... bar pf praeoaag pbyeL-                                                       Frose-  and geoag  a O-   feeaoo
alga  qoulifitd fre  a scdital etbool at_ otrsity in-e.                                                                     cU-oml  Aaslysis and Poeo      DesOpatcat
Petpla.tioa ftr lsi    Paros-  Pupaistie  dinidad by ester of preatisheg                                                                       May ilil
::I. end famal  geaoas  ssss  -ei-ts-so- saso.  en -te            mrosad
arafag aumlfarfe-



- 26 -
AM=E I
Page 4 of 6
HONDURAS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 3.8 (mid-1981, millions)
GNP Per Capita: US$ 600 (1981)
Country' s Problemt and Bank' s Contribution to their Solution
Amount
(million US$                     Share of GDP at Market Prices(%)                            Average Annual Increane (X)
Indicator                         at current prices)                        (at current prices) (a)                                   (at constant prices)
1981                1960       1970         1980        1981       1982      1960-70        1970-75        1975-80        1980-85
NATIO2.AL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product (a)                      2632               103.0       100.0        100.0       100.0      100.0        4.7             2.3            7.3            1.4
Agricultare                                    657                33.8        29.4         24.4       24.7        24.4        4.6            -0.9            6.7            1.2
Industry                                       613                17.1        20.2        23.3        23.6        22.5        5.0             3.9            8.2          -0.7
Services                                      1070                39.5        40.8         38.9       39.7        40.0        4.7             3.8            6.5            2.6
Co-sumption                                     2290                87.7        85.7         81.9        87.0       86.6        5.1             2.7            7.4           -0.2
Gross Investment                                 538                 13.9       20.9         26.2        20.4       15.4        8.5             0.8           12.5           -2.5
Exports of GNFS                                  868                21.4        27.3         37.4        33.0       26.9        8.9            -0.3            9.2            0.6
Imports of GNFS                                 1064                23.0        33.9         45.4       40.4        28.9       11.0             1.2          [1.7           -5.4
Gross national savings                           429                 14.8       11.5         14.3         8.1         7.7       0.4            -1.2            3.3            3.1
1975       1976       1977         1978       1979        1980            1981            1982
FRICES
GDP deflator                                                     100.0       108.0      125.7       134.9       145.9       156.8           165.1           177.8
Exchange rate                                                      2.0         2.0       2.0          2.0         2.0         2.0             2.0            2.0
Eiport price ilden                                               100.0       117.4     152.8        148.0       148.9       167.3           159.5           152.3
I.port pice index                                                100.0       107.9     119.4        128.9       150.4       176.5           173.0          179.4
Terom of trade index                                             100.0       108.8      128.0       114.7        99.0       94.8            92.2            84.9
CoWposition of Merchandise Trade (X)                                       Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                                   (at constant prices)
1960       1970       1975        1980        1981        1982          1960-70         1970-75        1975-80       1980-85
Exports                                            I1O.0       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0            12.5           -(1.5           11.6            1.0
Prisary                                           94.6        71.1       72.7        72.3        73.7        79.3             8.6           -1.1           11.3            2.5
'anufactures and others                             5.4       28.9       27.3        27.7        26.3        20.7            34.2             1.9           12.4          -3.9
Imports                                            100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0            16.2           -3.1            8.5           -5.5
Food                                              21.9         6.4       11.0         8.2         8.0         8.1           -9.0             8.5            6.9           -6.7
Fetrole,s                                          8.2         6.6      16.7         16.5        16.7       23.1            31.5           -11.4           -0.9            0.4
Capital Goods                                       19.6        30.0       27.0        25.2        22.4        17.7            19.2             0.6          10.5          -13.2
Others                                              50.3        57.0      45.3         50.1        52.9        51.2            16.5           -2.6            10.3          -3.3
An % of GDP
1960       1970       1975         1979       1980        1981            1982
PUBLIC FINANCES (b)
Current revenues                                                  10.9        13.1       13.7        14.6        15.2        14.0            13.5
Current expenditures                                               9.5        10.9       12.9        12.0        14.6        15.3           14.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         1.4         2.2       0.7          2.4         0.6       -1.2            -1.2
Capital expenditures                                               2.5         4.5       6.1          6.2         5.7         3.6             4.5
Foreign financing (net)                                            1.1         0.9       3.9          3.3         5.0        4.8              5.2
1960-70    1970-75   1975-80       1980-85       1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                                4.7         3.1        5.9          1.4           5.3
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                     1.5        -O.1        2.5        -2.0            2.1
Elecricity consurption growth rate (X)                              14.9        13.8       11.7        11.8            9.5
ICOR                                                                 3.6         9.9        3.8         14.5          4.4
Import elasticity                                                    2.3         1.6        1.4        -1.7            1.1
(a) At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies
(b) Central Government only.
April 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
HONDURAS - BALANCE OF PANNElUrS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DE8T
(elllions US$ at corrent prices)
Popolation: 3.8 (rid-1981, millions)
CNP Per Capita: US0 600 (1981)
A-l                                                                                     Projected
IndIcator                          1970       1975        1976       1977       1978         1979        1980          1981          1982            1983       1984       1985     1486
BALANCE OF PAMElITS
Emports of goods and services                 199        351        463         594        706          859         967           903           784             823        916      1091      1194
Of which: Slerchandise f.o.b.               178       310         412         530        626          756         850           784           677             731       820        989      1087
Imports of goods and sarvices                 269       481         581         737        881         1071        1306          1233          1033            1097       1224      1313      1426
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                203       372         432         550        654          783        954           899            681             740       808        875       963
Net transfers                                   7         17          13         14         17           20          22            28            30              28         30         32       34
Corrent account balance                       -64      -113        -105        -129       -157         -192        -317          -302         -219             -246       -278      -190      -198
Private direct investtnat                       8          7          5           9         13           28           6            -4            -3              -5         -          15       18
MLT loans (net)                                26         93          80        114        138          166         241           208           204             254        260        252      196
Official                                    27        88          57          71        109          106         131           175           163             178       207        232       216
Private                                    -1          5          23          42         28           60         110            33            41              76        53         20       -20
Other capital                                  21         67         50          26         16          -19          16            26           -71              20         32         51       45
Change in reserves (- increases)                9       -54         -31         -20        -10           17          54            72            89             -23       -14       -128       -61
International reserves (net)                   20        66          97         117        127          110          56          -16           -105             -82       -68         60       121
Reserves as months itports                      2        1.6        2.0         1.9        1.7          1.2         0.5          -.2          -1.2             -0.9      -0.7        0.5       1.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbur-aernts
Official grants                              -        13          10          10         13           14          14           19
Concessional loans                          17        17          21          34         67           58         62            70
DAC                                        7        12          10          10         17          15          18            30
OPEC                                      -          -           5           -          -            -          -             -
IDA                                       2          2           2           3         8            6          18            13
Other                                     8          3           5          22        42           37          27            28
-on-conce..iosaI loans                      12        82          72         100         99          166        200           184
Official e.ports credits                  -         22          13          16        21           20          12            40
IBRD                                     10         13          13         22         25           26          24            30
Other  ollttlateral                       2         39          19          14         13           9          53             -
Private                                   0          8          27         48         39          112         111            87
Enternal Debt
Dlebr vottanding and disb-rsed             90        264         344         458        595          759        981          1223
Official                                 86        244         301         372       481          577         705           854
Private                                   4         20          43         86        114          183         276           370
Undiniborned debt                           54       185         246         352        375          501        729           708
Debt Service
Total service paynents                      6         17          29          42        60          108          98           115
Interest                                  3         10          15         22         31           46          59            77
Paynent. as I eaports                     2.8        4.7         6.2         7.0       8.4         12.7        10.8            13
Average interest rate on new loans (2)        4.1       5.9         5.7         4.2        7.7          7.8         7.0          10.7
Average matority of nr; loans (years)        29.6      19.4        22.6        28.8       16.0         20.7       23.8          19.0
April 1983
;.



-28  -                                      ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
HONDURAS - OFFICIAL LENDING BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS' 1970-82
(in million of constant FY82 US dollars a/)
IBRD/IDA          IDB           CABEI          AID          TOTAL
Transport                         172.3           84.4           193.7          9.9          460.3
Power                            314.3           102.0           135.4         14.1         565.8
Education                          18.0           55.5             -           29.2          102.7
Health                              -              9.7             5.2          6.9           21.8
Housing                             -              18.7           11.7          4.2           34.6
Agriculture                        73.4          118.7            17.0         52.2         261.3
Manufacturing                      52.0          152.7            17.4          5.5          227.6
Water and Sewerage                 -              75.5             8.6         12.4           96.5
Others                            29.5             3.3            41.0         86.2          160.0
Total                  659.5           620.5          430.0        220.6        1,930.6
a/ IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
Source: World Bank Debt Tables, 1970-79
World Bank, IDB, USAID, and CABEI Tables, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE SEATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDUR
A. SLfM OENTF BANK laNS A0 IDA CREDITS 1,   (Net of cancellations"
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or
Credit  Year        Borroer              Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
No.                                                                (U$ millions)
Fifteen loans and ten credits fully disbursed.            130.0   66.1
628     1976  Government               Agricultural Credit   -    14.0            1.0
1341/2  1976  Government               Highways              35.0      -          4.1
1395/6  1977  Government/Empresa       Ports                 12.0      -          1.6
Nacional Pbrtuaria
777     1978  Government               Education               -      5.0         1.8
1576    1978  Government               Regional              10.5      -          2.9
Development
1629    1978  FEp. Nacional de         Pbwer                 30.5      -          1l1
Energia Electrica
1659    1979  Goverrnent               Industrial Credit   15.0        -          1.1
1673    1979  Government               Tourism               19.5      -         11.8
1805    1980  Eb]p. Nacional de        Power                105.0      -         76.2
Energia Electrica
1833    1980  Government               Second Agricul-
tural Credit        20.0     -         11.8
1861    1980  Government               Petroleum              3.0      -          2.9
Exploration
Promotion
1901    1980  Governmnt                Eighth Highway        28.0      -         22.1
2075    1981  Government               Second Industrial
Credit              30,0     -         28.2
Total                                               438.5   85.1
of  hiach has been repaid                          46.5    2.2
Anrmnt sold                    4.5
of which has been repaid    4.5                      -      -
Total now beld by Bank and IDA1/                    392.0   82.9
Total undislbrsed                                   163.8    2.8        166.6
Total now outstanding                               228.2   80.1
1/ Including exchange adjustmrent.
*  Fully disbirsed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. -STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Year                 Obligor                 Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos Centro-            Tannery               0.21    0.08    0.29
americana S.A. (ECCASA)
1969/70    Cia. Pina Celulosa de               Pulp and Paper         -      0.08    0.08
Centroamerica (COPINO)
1978       Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A.            Textiles & Fibers    3.00    1.00    4.00
de C.V.
Total gross commitments                                   3.21    1.16    4.37
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments,
and sales                                              0.81    0.16    0.97
Total now held by IFC                                    2.40    1.00    3.40
Total undisbursed                                                          -
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 628            First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$ 14.0 Million of July 2,
1976: Effective Date: December 11, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
The agricultural credit portion of this operation is
virtually fully disbursed, and most contracts for technical
assistance, the other major component of the project, have been
signed. The Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1983 to permit
disbursement against purchases for which bids were received in
1983.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress of
projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are
being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in
this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                     Page 3 of 6
Ln 1341/1342   Seventh Highway Project:  US$28.0 Million, US$ 7.0 Million of
December 16, 1976: Effective Date: May 20, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Work on Section IV of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacama& road
and, on three access roads has resumed following the takeover of
the contract by the insurance company which provided the
performance bond.  The lists of prequalified local contractors
for both repair work for sections of the Tegucigalpa-Catacamas
road and the access road to the Escuela Nacional de Agricultura
were approved by the Bank in January; contract awards and the
commencement of works resumed in the third quarter of 1982. The
Government has requested and the Bank agreed that the remaining
undisbursed balance which will not be utilized for civil works
construction already underway be reallocated in its entirety for
the purchase of maintenance equipment.
Ln 1395/1396   Third Port Project:  US$ 5.0 Million, US$ 7.0 Million, US$ 5.0
Cr 696         Million of April 22, 1977:  Effective Date: December 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Completion of a 150-meter wharf at Puerto Castilla is
presently expected in early 1984. The Venezuelan Investment Fund
(VIF) and a new OPEC Fund loan of US$ 7.25 million, for which a
loan agreement was signed January 19, 1983, will provide adequate
financing for completion of the project. The Board of Directors
has approved the necessary modification in the project
description. The Port authority has reached agreement with its
former foreign contractor on a settlement of its arbitration
claim.
Cr 777         Second Education Project:  US$ 5.0 Million of April 6, 1978:
Effective Date: August 15, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Project implementation has recently improved. IDA has
approved a major modification of the Credit Agreement, resulting
in the establishment of a special account in Honduras to
facilitate IDA disbursements.



ANNEX II
- 3 2 -                        Page 4 of 6
Ln 1576          Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 Million of
June 16, 1978: Effective Date: December 18, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1983.
Organizational problems which plagued the project in
its first years are resolved, and implementation is
proceeding well, with particular improvements in the credit
and marketing systems. A working group comprised of
ministerial and Project Unit Staff has submitted
recommendations for solution of a few remaining operational
difficulties. The Bank has approved the establishment of a
special account to facilitate completion of the project.
The Bank is currently considering a Government request to
extend the Closing Date in light of the recent progress in
project implementation.
Ln 1629          Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 Million of December 15,
1978: Effective Date: April 12, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Initial delays in execution were caused by required
redesign of the foundation for the diesel plant and, for the
hydro works, poorer than expected geological conditions in
the tunnel and delays in placing orders for the turbines and
generators. These problems have been solved and both plants
are now completed.   The project was commissioned end of
1982 and is now operating commercially.
Ln 1659          Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 of March 8, 1979:
Effective Date:  July 5, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983.
Progress on this project has been good.  The line of
credit is fully committed and disbursements should be
completed before the Closing Date of December 31, 1983.
Ln 1673          Tourism Development Project: US$19.5 Million of June 25,
1979: Effective Date: November 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Airport works at San Pedro Sula and the Copan tourism
works are finished and the archeological surveys and Roatan
airport works are well advanced. The Bank has extended the
final date for commitment of the line of credit from June
30, 1982 to April 30, 1983.



3 3                        ANNEX  II
Page 5 of 6
Ln 1805         El Cajon Power Project:  US$105.0 Million, US$20.0 Million of
Cr 989          March 27, 1980, April 10, 1980:  Effective Date:  September 25,
1980; Ciosing Date: Febutuary 28, 1987.
This project is proceeding on schedule. However, ENEE is
experiencing cash flow problems and will need to find additional
sources of funding to complete its investment program. A
proposal in this respect is expected to be provided by ENEE in
the near future. The Government has been unable to obtain com-
mercial bank loans as expected when the project was appraised.
These banks apparently would be prepared to proceed with
co-financing arrangement with the World Bank under the new co-
financing instruments. About US$ 33 million are still needed for
the next three years to finance interest during construction.
The Government and ENEE are currently considering IDB financing
for counterpart in the amount of about US$ 60-70 million.
Ln 1833         Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$20.0 Million, US$ 5.0
Cr 1005         Million of April 18, 1980:  Effective Date:  September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The agricultural credit portion of this operation is moving
well. Funds for the studies component have been committed and
two of the three studies have actually begun. The pilot forestry
component is now underway. In September 1982, the Bank agreed to
the Government's request for reallocation of US$ 1.5 million from
civil works for banana and plantain development to seasonal
credit for an area devastated by tropical floods.
Ln 1861         Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project:  US$ 3.0 Million of June
23t, 1980: Effective Date: October 3, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Although effective since October 1980, this project has
suffered considerable delays, mainly due to frequent personnel
changes, delays in selection of consultants, and cumbersome
administrative procedures. However, consultants on exploration,
law and accounting/auditing have finally begun work. CONSUPLANE
has selected a consultant to carry out the study of alternative
energy sources.  In addition, the Ministry of Economy has decided
to go ahead with the study on petroleum product pricing and
taxation and is preparing tender documents and a short list of
firms. A request from the Ministry of Finance to extend the
deadlines for the completion of the studies on alternative energy
sources, petroleum product pricing, petroleum sector legislation,
and petroleum accounting and auditing procedures until June 30,
1983 was approved by the Bank.



ANNEX  II
Page 6 of 6
Ln 1901         Eighth Highway Project:  US$28.0 Million of September 29, 1980:
Effective Date: March 25, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The road construction and improvement component of this
project is about six to eight months behind appraisal schedule.
Owing to uncertainties in expected road maintenance budgets, it
will be necessary to review the maintenance component of the
project later this year and to adjust it in accordance with
budgetary realities. The Bank is reviewing information
supporting a Government request to include an additional 40-km
segment of highway, to be financed by cost sharing resulting from
lower-than-expected price increases in labor and materials since
appraisal.
Ln 2075         Second Industrial Credit:  US$30.0 Million of May 19, 1982:
Effective Date: August 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
About 30 sub-projects are currently being financed, with
about 38 sub-projects in the pipeline. Scarcity of foreign
exchange and slack demand owing to the world recession have led
to postponement in investment decisions by medium-sized firms,
resulting in slower-than-expected demand for investment credit.



ANNEX III
- 35 -                        Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation and Pre-Appraisal:
(i)   First Discussions with Government:  July 1981
(ii)  Bank Identification Mission:          March 1982
(iii) Preparation by PU and UNDP/RUTA       April-August 1982
(b) Appraisal Mission Departure:                September 1982
(c) Negotiations Completed:                     April 11, 1983
(d) Loan Effectiveness Planned:                 August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) A Project Executive Committee would be formed in BCH, by
December 31, 1983 under the chairmanship of BCH, the Project
Director, and senior representatives of the Ministry of
Natural Resources, BANADESA, and the Bankers' Association of
Honduras. (paragraph 56);
(b) BCH would maintain the existing revolving fund of L 10.0
million for credit operations and L 2.5 million for PU
expenditures (paragraph 62);
(c) All funds repaid to BCH by FIs that are not needed for payments
to the Government under the Subsidiary Agreement would be used
for additional lending for similar purposes (paragraph 62);
(d) By March 31, 1984. the Government would establish a mechanism,
satisfactory to the Bank, to allow BCH to restore the liquidity
of an F1 adversely affected in the event that the land on which
an investment plan was being carried out was expropriated under
the Agrarian Reform Law, and BCH would use the mechanism as
necessary (paragraph 63);



- 36 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The first 10 subloans to agrarian reform (or other farmers')
groups, all investment subloans of US$ 200,000 equivalent or
more, and all subloans which, when combined with the value of
subloans made to the same sub-borrower under previous Bank
Group loans or credits, totalled US$ 200,000 or more, would be
sent to the Bank for review prior to approval for financing
(paragraph 66);
(f) As a condition of effectiveness, the new posts of Deputy
Director, Extension Specialist, and Training Coordinator, all
within the Project Unit, would have been filled by persons
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 50);
(g) As a condition of effectiveness, the PU would have designed,
and the Bank approved, the first year's training program
(paragraph 51);
(h) As a condition of effectiveness, the Government and BCH would
have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement stipulating that the
full amount of the loan would be passed on to BCH under the
same terms as obtained from the Bank (paragraphs 55 and 62);
(i) As a condition of effectiveness, BANADESA and at least three
other FIs would have signed Project Administration Contracts
with BCH (paragraph 55);
(j) As a condition of effectiveness, a credit manual specifying
guidelines for subloan appraisal, monitoring, and collection
would have been drafted by the PU and approved by the Bank
(paragraph 57);
(k) As a condition of effectiveness, BANADESA would have: prepared
and furnished to the Bank a Loan Recovery Plan for its
Bank-financed portfolio; established a coordination unit and
appointed a manager for the unit whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Bank; and redefined the
responsibilities of loan officers in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; (paragraph 59);
(1) As a condition of disbursement for each participating FI, a
Project Administration Contract would have been signed by it
and BCH (paragraph 58).



IBRD-16747R
| .1 88 ; ,, , ; r r < . >_/ . / \ h ;) Rc l; 47 ; ' i&0 20TA storld777 5 istah pxduavv M F X I c 7 ,e1 .................. IAI,',)                                                        IAN...Y1933
B   E   L   I    Z   E      !                                                                                            :       *  ,    .-t   ,.s   ii  ,   :      :                Tw!Rnn7Gpw    v   7se   c j/  t        3F5 Ir -
'eveA.' nvA'ev~e,,  GUATEMALA >
' , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROATAN                                                                                                                                       H         it;02\;  =a  t&uw  7H. > J 
EL SALVALOR   -   JICARCSUA
' i f  P  _   .   C l " ''                                      "  Y   T ' ' '            HIR            D    A G C~R ,                                                                                              C * S T A
~~,AAA ~~~~   Qj'i5~~~~             PA         "'RICA-
K"R^--                                                                                                                       / 5C~n;oniodo>1f                            > _ 2 >  / /'t_'    =   W>;2   R*;;i   +   ~~~-~ EarAh Ronds  /
EL~ ~~~~~ARR SAVDRS                                                      ';6   DDUe                                  CRGA;   ano7 
/7  Cov; * y   g X j-   nJ  6' 6' (  i  '  <   g_ ._ ;  ' w  /                                                                                                                                     I~~~~-'--A- i  ( 
86'~~~~~~~~~~~A                         AA8iX'-                                         p          
71'~~~~~a~
.'~~    5A1ITA~~~~ROEA  ~~~   SIAr.'d.'A'~~~~~I''  "A  EP5evA           K.'""                                 I                p-" "~~~~~~~~~S           P,
ev,                     A-->                                                                                           rlc   Ui            fie
It  -6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -Eat od
'T                                                                                        Req,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tJtonal Capital
-14'                                                                                       0                                                    Proposed Off,,e (Dependent on Tegucigalpa Regional (Df fice)~~~~~~~~~~~- DportentEto,ndrie
Cep~~utrcv  iA'vOMEtEItS  25       50        75      tOO                          Ab~~~~Gove 1,a00
On'                                            Re'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at Rood



