DOFFC  EIT L    OAN NUMBER 2284 HO
Project Agreement
(Third Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE HONDURAS
Dated                                   1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2284 HO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    L          t   aei        , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DE HONDURAS (hereinafter
called Banco Central.)
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Honduras (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five
million dollars ($45,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banco
Central agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Banco Central, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Banco Central on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Banco Central shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or


﻿-2-
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Banco Central in carrying
out Parts B and C of the Project, Banco Central shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Banco Central undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by Banco
Central to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Banco Central shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Banco Central shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Banco Central: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant


﻿- 3 -
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Banco Central of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than four months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Banco
Central and the Bank, Banco Central, through the Project Unit
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Banco Central and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
(e) Banco Central shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of Banco Central and any records and
documents relevant to the Project.
Section 2.06. Banco Central shall:
(a) enter into the Subsidiary Loan Agreeo.ent with the
Borrower;
(b) for the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project,
enter into lending contracts with each Financial Intermediary
(the Project Administration Contracts) on such terms and condi-
tions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, including such terms
and conditions as are set forth in Section 1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and Banco Central;
(c) duly perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and each Project Administration Contract and exercise


﻿-4-
its rights thereunder, in such a manner as to protect the in-
terests of the Borrower, the Bank and Banco Central and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Banco Central shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate, waive or fail to enforce, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
each Project Administration Contract, or any provision thereof;
and
(d) open and maintain on its books a Project Account, such
Project Account to have as many sub-Project Accounts as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, to which the proceeds of the Loan made
available to Banco Central by the Borrower under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be credited and through which all payments
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and each Project Administra-
tion Contract, shall be made.
Section 2.07. (a) Banco Central shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Banco Central shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Banco Central of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Banco Central shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their execution, certified copies of every Project
Administration Contract, and shall furnish to the Bank upon
request, copies of any Sub-loan Contract.
Section 2.09. Banco Central shall: (a) conduct the Project
activities through the Project Unit, such Unit to be provided
with facilities and personnel in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and to be headed by the Project Director;
(b) expand the activities of the Project Unit providing
thereto the services of the persons referred to in Section 6.01
(e) of the Loan Agreement, a new small office in Juticalpa,
resources to foster extension services and, in general, all
resources required for the carrying out of the Project additional
to those provided under the applicable Prior Agreement;


﻿- 5 -
(c) maintain the Project Unit until the Project completion
report referred to in Section 2.05 (d) of this Agreement has been
delivered to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank;
(d) employ, upon terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Bank: (i) a Project Director, acceptable to the
Bank, who shall perform, inter alia, the functions referred to in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) a Deputy Project Director,
acceptable to the Bank, who shall in the absence of the Project
Director discharge in lieu thereof;
(e) at all times take all action necessary or advisable to
enable the Project Executive Committee to carry out its functions
as provided in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement; and
(f) without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section: (i) maintain and operate two
revolving funds in Lempiras in amounts, satisfactory to the Bank,
adequate for meeting the financial requirements of a timely exe-
cution of the Project, and (ii) maintain rules and guidelines,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the operation of such funds. One of
the funds to be used for purposes of Part A of the Project and
the other for those of Parts B and C thereof.
Section 2.10. Banco Central shall, once the mechanism
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement has been estab-
lished, promptly and adequately restore the liquidity of any
Financial Intermediary which has been substantially and adversely
affected by the replacement of land, held as collateral under
Sub-loan Contracts, by Agrarian Reform Bonds issued in connection
with the expropriation of such land under the Agrarian Reform
Law.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Banco Central
Section 3.01. Banco Central shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Banco Central shall ensure that the proceeds
of all payments made by Financial Intermediaries under Project


﻿-6-
Administration Contracts which are not utilized by Banco Central
to make payments to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be utilized by Banco Central to fund further
agricultural lending programs managed by the Project Unit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Banco Central shall maintain and cause
each Financial Intermediary to maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) Banco Central shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. Banco Central shall:
(a) have and cause each Financial Intermediary to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish and cause each Financial Intermediary to
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year: (i)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without     limitation  to  the   foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of


﻿-7-
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish and cause each Financial Intermediary to fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning said accounts,
financial statements, records and expenditures, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Banco Central thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Banco Central thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco Central:
Banco Central de Honduras
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable Address:                     Telex:
BANTRAL                          1121 HTBANTRAL
Tegucigalpa
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banco Central, or by Banco Central on
behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the President of Banco Central or such other person
or persons as the President of Banco Central shall designate in
writing, and Banco Central shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


-   9   - 
o f   C o l u m b i a ,   U n i t e d   S t a t e s   o f   A m e r i c a ,   a s   o f   t h e   d a y   a n d   y e a r 
f i r s t   a b o v e   w r i t t e n . 
I N T E R N A T I O N A L   B A N K   F O R 
R E C O N S T R U C T I O N   A N D   D E V E L O P M E N T 
B y 
R e g i o n a l   V i c e   P r e s i d e n t 
L a t i n   A m e r i c a   a n d   t h e   C a r i b b e a n 
B A N C O   C E N T R A L   D E   H O N D U R A S 
B y 
A u t h o r i z e d   R e p r e s e n t a t i v e 


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of Part C hereof, vehicles
and equipment for Part C of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Banco Central shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Banco. Central shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


