OFF    p
LOAN NUMBER 2284 HO
Loan Agreement
(Third Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RCONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2284 7
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 4              91   , 1983, between REPUBLIC
OF HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Banco Central de
Honduras (hereinafter called Banco Central) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Banco Central the proceeds of the Loan as here-
inafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inte,' alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Banco Cen-
tral;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banco Central of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules


﻿-2-
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Banco Central pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Secretarfa" means Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho
de  Recursos  Naturales,  the  Borrower's Ministry   of   Natural
Resources, and any administrative subdivision or agency thereof,
and any successor thereto;
(d) "Project   Executive  Committee" means   the  committee
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e) "Financial Intermediary" means BANADESA or any other
banking institution, acceptable to the Bank, authorized to
operate as such in the Republic of Honduras, which has entered or
will enter into a Project Administration Contract; and "BANADESA"
means Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola, the Borrower's
National Bank of Agricultural Development;
(f) "Project Administration Contract" means the contract to
be entered into between Banco Central and a Financial Interme-
diary as required by Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement,
and any amendment thereto; and "Project Administration Loan"
means each loan provided for in a Project Administration Con-
tract;
(g) "Investment Plan" means a detailed proposal for in-
vestments aimed at the development of farm or non-farm rural
activities, or both, to take place outside the urban limits of
Tegucigalpa and -San Pedro Sula, to be financed under Part A
of the Project, such Investment Plan to include, inter alia,
Beneficiaries' contributions in family labor and in kind;
(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the proceeds of the Loan under a Sub-loan Contract by a Finan-
cial Intermediary to a Beneficiary for an Investment Plan;
"Long-term Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, the repay-
ment term of which extends for more than 18 months but not more
than 12 years, and which has been or will be granted for the
financing of investments under 'an Investment Plan, excluding


﻿-3-
investments for the purchase of land and housing other than
laborer housing or housing for an individual Small-Scale Farmer
having title on the farm land and being the sole operator of such
farm, as more substantially detailed in Section II of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement; and "Short-term Sub-loan" means a
Sub-loan, as so defined, the repayment term of which does not
extend beyond 18 months and which has been or will be granted for
the financing of incremental needs of working capital relating to
an Investment Plan, as more substantially detailed in the
aforesaid Section II.
(i) "Sub-loan Contract" means a contract providing for a
Sub-loan;
(j) "Beneficiary" means any individual, corporation, co-
operativa, including a cooperativa de campesinos (as defined in
the Agrarian Reform Law), empresas asociativas de campesinos (as
defined in the Agrarian Reform Law), or any legal entity, other
than a Financial Intermediary, that has entered or will enter, a
Sub-loan Contract;
(k) "Small-Scale Farmer" means a Beneficiary who is in any
of the two cases set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
(1) "Agrarian Reform Law" means the Borrower's Decree Law
No. 170, dated December 30, 1974 and published in La Gaceta No.
21.482 of January 28, 1975 and any regulation thereunder, as such
Agrarian Reform Law may be amended from time to time;
(m) "Project Unit" means the unit within Banco Central
established pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the Prior Project
Agreement, as expanded under Part E of the Project described in
Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement No. 1005-HO refer-
red to in paragraph (q) below and which is proposed to be further
expanded under Part C of the Project pursuant to Section 2.09 of
the Project Agreement; and "Project Director" means the head of
the Project Unit charged with the functions referred to in Sched-
ule 3 to the Project Agreement;
(n) "Project Account" and "sub-Project Account", mean,
respectively, the account and sub-accounts referred to in Section
2.06 (d) of the Project Agreement;
(o)  "Prior Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(628-HO) (Agricultural Credit Project), dated July 2, 1976, be-
tween the Association and Banco Central;


﻿-4-
(p) "Lempiras" means the currency of the Borrower;
(q) "Prior Agreements" means the Development Credit Agree-
ment No. 179-HO (Livestock Development Project) dated March 2,
1970, the Development Credit Agreement No. 434-HO (Second Live-
stock Project) dated October 29, 1973, the Development Credit
Agreement No. 628-HO (Agricultural Credit Project) dated July 2,
1976, and the Development Credit Agreement No. 1005-HO (Second
Agricultural Credit Project), dated April 28, 1980, entered into
between the International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Association) and the Borrower, referred to collective-
ly, and the term includes the Loan Agreement and any Project
Agreement, entered into between the Association or the Bank, or
both, and Banco Central in respect of the carrying out of any
project financed under any of the aforesaid Development Credit or
Loan Agreements; and
(r)  "Loan Recuperation Rate" means the ratio for a given
period between the aggregate of repayments of principal of and
payments of interest and other charges collected by BANADESA on
its loans during such period and the aggregate of repayments of
principal of and payments of interest and other charges on such
loans which are due during the same period, including repayments
of principal of and payments of interest and -ther charges on
BANADESA's loans which have become overdue or have been resched-
uled during such period to be repaid in a subsequent period.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000).
Sec,ion 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Sche,lule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Sr'-dule 1 to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred twelve thousand two hundred nineteen
dollars ($112,219).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to iLself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount


﻿-6-
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreemnit, the Bor-
rower shall cause Banco Central to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Banco
Central therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Banco
Central to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Banco Central under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Banco Central, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which,


﻿-7-
inter alia, shall provide that the financial terms and conditions
under this Agreement in respect of repayment of, and payments of
interest, fees and charges on, the Loan, shall be applied to the
proceeds of the Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1983 establish and there-
after maintain a Project Executive Committee, satisfactory to the
Bank; such Committee to be chaired by a senior representative of
Banco Central, and to include as permanent members senior repre-
sentatives of Secretarla, BANADESA, and the Bankers' Association
of Honduras; the Project Director, or his Deputy, shall act as
its secretary; and
(b) cause the Project Executive Committee to be responsible
for, inter alia, reviewing and making recommendations to the
Project Director regarding the audit reports referred to in Sec-
tion 4.02 of the Project Agreement and the Project Unit's budget
and lending program as well as the progress, annual evaluation
and project completion reports made by the Project Unit with
regard to the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause BANADESA to:
(a) prepare. and furnish to the Bank a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the improvement of the Loan
Recuperation Rate in respect of loans made by BANADESA under
projects being financed by the Bank;
(b) carry out the plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section promptly after its preparation;
(c) establish, and thereafter maintain, in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank, a coordination unit for the purpose of
improving BANADESA's cverall performance, especially with respect
to loan collection, such unit to be headed by a manager whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and


﻿-8-
(d) redefine, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
terms of reference of BANADESA's loan officers in order to
consolidate their duties in respect to BANADESA's lending
operations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1984, estab-
lish and thereafter maintain a mechanism, satisfactory to the
Bank, to enable Banco Central to restore the liquidity of any
Financial Intermediary which has been substantially and adversely
affected by the replacement of land, held as collateral under
Sub-loan Contracts, by Agrarian Reform Bonds issued in connection
with the expropriatton of such land under the Agrarian Reform
Law.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of


﻿- 9 -
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
Banco Central or any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar func-
tions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Banco Central shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or under any of the Prior
Agreements.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Banco Central will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or
that any Financial Intermediary will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the respective Project Administration Contract.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken:
(i) any action for the dissolution, disestablishment,
or suspension of operations of Banco Central or
any Financial Intermediary; or
(ii) any other action which may adversely affect the
ability of Banco Central or any Financial Interme-
diary to carry out their respective covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in any
Project Administration Contract entered into for
purposes of the Project;


﻿- 10 -
provided, however, that if any event referred to in this Section
shall have occurred in respect to any Financial Intermediary, the
Bank may at its option suspend the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account only in respect of amounts
relent or proposed to be relent to the Financial Intermediary
affected by any such event.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) that any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) that any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) or paragraph (c) (Ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and
Banco Central.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of Banco Central have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Banco Central;
(c) that the execution and delivery of at least four Proj-
ect Administration Contracts, including the Project Administra-
tion Contract between Banco Central and BANADESA, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action;
(d) that a credit manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has
been issued by Banco Central;


﻿- 11 -
(e) that Banco Central has employed a Deputy Director, an
Extension Specialist and a Training Coordinator all of whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the Bank;
(f)  that BANADESA has taken the actions referred to in
paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
and
(g) that a first-year program, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the carrying out of Part B of the Project has been prepared.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Banco Central, and is legally binding upon Banco Cen-
tral in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
autborized or ratified by the Borrower and Banco Central and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Banco Central in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The datQb        L29fff3, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Secretarila de Estado en el Despacho
de Hacienda y Credito Pd'blico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras


﻿- 12
Cable address:                       Telex:
HACIENDA                          1308-Facienda HO
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the D: -trict
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day ana year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Short-term Sub-            4,300,000        69% of amounts
loans to Small-                            disbursed by
Scale Farmers                              Financial
Intermediaries
for purposes of
the Project
(2) Long-term Sub-            13,300,000        69% of amounts
loans to Small-                            disbursed by
Scale Farmers                              Financial
Intermediaries
for the purposes
of the Project
(3) Long-term Sub-            19,600,000        69% of amounts
loans to Bene-                             disbursed by
ficiaries other                            Financial
than Small-Scale                           Intermediaries
Farmers.                                   for purposes of
the Project
(4) Short-term Sub-            5,000,000        69% of amounts
loans to Bene-                             disbursed by
ficiaries other                            Financial
than Small-                                Intermediaries
Scale Farmers                              for purposes of
the Project
(5) Training under               700,000        100% of foreign
Part B of the                              expenditures and
Project                                    58% of local ex-
penditures


﻿14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Incremental mate-            800,000        58% of local ex-
rials and services,                        penditures
including salaries
under Part C of
the Project
(7) Field vehicles and           300,000        100% of foreign
equipment under                            expenditures
Part C of the                              and 58% of local
Project                                    expenditures
(8) Consultants                  500,000        100% of foreign
Services under                             expenditures and
Parts B and C                              58% of local
of the Project                             expenditures
(9) Fee                          112,219        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(10) Unallocated                 387,781
TOTAL          45,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental materials and services, including
salaries under Part C of the Project" means the incremental ex-
penditures incurred by the Project Unit, directly determined by


﻿- 15 -
its expansion for purposes of the Project pursuant to Section
2.09 of the Project Agreement, and the benefits granted to the
Project Unit staff in addition to the salaries current as of
December 31, 1982.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) Sub-loans unless evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that the Financial Intermediary in question has entered into the
corresponding Project Administration Contract and that said
Contract is effective, has been furnished to the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 16 -
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
-Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to provide financing to
beneficaries in rural areas in order to promote development
through increased rural production. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:
Execution of a lending program consisting of the making of
Long-term   Sub-loans for the financing of investments under
Investment Plans and, if required, Short-term Sub-loans for the
financing of working capital complementary to Investment Plans.
Part B:
Training of the staff of Banco Central in the fields of
management, finance, banking, computer operation, agricultural
extension, training, crop and animal husbandry; training of the
staff of actual and prospective Financial Intermediaries in the
fields of finance, banking and credit management for agTicultural
projects; training of farmers in credit management accounting;
and training of all the above staff and farmers in other matters
related to the Project, as accepted by the Bank.
Part C:
Strengthening of the activities and staffing of, and
acquisition and utilization of equipment and about ten field
vehicles, for the Project Unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1989
through   August 1, 2003                     1,500,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                         0.55
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I nave signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of 1,4  4   98 3
FOR SECRETARY


