Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20390-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62.0 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 11, 2000
Finance and Private Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2000)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rp)
Rp 1.0 = US$ .023
US$ 1.0 = Rp 44.0
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -             Asian Development Bank
ATM           -             Asynchronous transfer mode
CAA&A         -             Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit
C&AG          -             Comptroller and Auditor General of India
DoT           -             Department of Telecommunications
DoTS          -             Department of Telecommunications Services
FDI           -             Foreign direct investment
GDR           -             Global Depository Receipt
IFC           -             International Finance Corporation
IT            -             Information technology
ITU           -             International Telecommunication Union
MIGA          -             Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoC           -             Ministry of Communications
MOF           -             Ministry of Finance
MTNL          -             Mahangar Telephone Nigam Ltd.
NTP           -             National Telecommunications Policy (1994)
NTP           -             National Telecommunications Policy (1999)
PCS           -             Personal Communication Service
SOE           -             Statement of expenditure
TRAI          -             Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
TDSAT         -             Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal
TC            -             Telecommunications Commission
TEC           -             Telecommunication Engineering Center
VSAT          -             Very small aperture terminal
VSNL          -             Vides Sanchar Nigam Ltd.
WPC           -             Wireless Planning and Coordination Wing
WTO           -             World Trade Organization
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Marilou Jane D. Uy
Task Team Leader:    Rajesh B. Pradhan



INDIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            17
2. Financial                                                                            17
3. Technical                                                                            18
4. Institutional                                                                        18
5. Social                                                                               18
6. Enviromnent                                                                          18
7. Participatory Approach                                                               18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      19
2. Critical risks                                                                      20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           21
2. Other                                                                             21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                      34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    45
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 47
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           51
MAP(S)
Map not included.



INDIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: May 11, 2000                                 Team Leader: Rajesh B. Pradhan
Country Manager/Director: Edwin Lim                Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P055456                                Sector(s): CC - Telecommunications & Informatics
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Telecom & Informatics
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
M Loan          LI] Credit      Li Grant         li Guarantee    C Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$62.0
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Finacin Pln.       Sourc                                                    Fo
rFiflancing ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      Local         Foein           Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      10.00           0.00          10.00
IBRD                                                             0.00          62.00          62.00
Total:                                                          10.00          62.00          72.00
Borrower: GOI
Responsible agency: DOT
Project Coordination Unit at DoT, Project Management Units at TRAI and TDSAT, and Project Implementation Units at
WPC and TEC
Address: Departnent of Telecommunications, Sanchar Bhawan, Room 201, 20 Ashoka Road,
New Delhi 110 001
Contact Person: Mr. Dhanendra Kumar, Additional Secretary
Tel: 91 11 3717300                 Fax: 91 11 335-0495                Email: ast@dell.vsnl.net.in
Other Agency(ies):
PMU - TRAI
Address: TRAI, 16th Floor, Jawahar Vyapar Bhawan 1, Tolstoy Marg,
New Delhi 110 001
Contact Person: Mr. Narinder Sharna, Secretary Tel. 91 11 3357814, Fax 91 11 3738708, Email trai@del2.vsnl.net.in
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2.01        2a0      5    0      _ 00
Annual     10.0         30.0         17.0         5.0
Cumulative    10.0          40.0         57.0        62.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F. Rev M.a, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of this project is to strengthen elements of the policy and regulatory environment to
promote private investment and competition in the telecommunications sector in India. This will be
achieved by assisting the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) in the Ministry of Communications
(MoC) to strengthen its government functions, including modernization of radio frequency management
and licensing systems, and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and the Telecom Disputes
Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) to strengthen their capacity to regulate the sector. Thus, the
project will improve the institutional capacity and capability of the Wireless Planning Coordination Wing
of DoT (WPC) to efficiently manage the radio frequency spectrum, and the Telecommunications
Engineering Center of DoT (TEC) to become aware of the emerging technologies and the need for setting
standards in the sector. Furthermore, the project will continue the dialogue between the Bank and all the
stakeholders (DoT, TRAI, TDSAT, operator associations and key customers) on regulatory practice and
issues.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators to measure the impact of the project are provided in Annex 1 and are as
follows:
*      Inter-circle domestic long distance service liberalization, latest by 2001.
*      Interconnection regime conducive to competition in place, latest by 2002.
*      Assign frequencies for earmarked bands within 15 days of application, latest by 2004.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17241-IN                Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/15/98
Board discussion of the last full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India (Rpt. No. 17241 -IN) was on
January 15, 1998; the latest Board discussion of the CAS Progress Report (Rpt. No. R99-12,
IDA/R99-10) was on February 18, 1999. The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS. A critical
element of the CAS is to help the Central Government and the States to create and promote an enabling
environment for private capital and management to enter various sectors of the economy, particularly
infrastructure. In telecommunications, which has moved much further than other utility sectors in the
reform process, the Bank will assist the Government in implementing elements of its new
telecommunications policy (NTP) announced on March 26, 1999.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The chronology of sector reform in India (Tablel) indicates important progress, despite implementation
difficulties, in moving towards more private investment and competition in the sector.
-2 -



F     Table 1: Chronology of Sector Reform  in India
1992                    MTNL and VSNL partially privatized
1992                    Provision of value-added services opened to the private sector.
1994                   National Telecommunications Policy (NTP 94) issued; opened basic and cellular services to private
investors.
1994                    Eight cellular licenses awarded in four metropolitan areas
1994-98                 Licenses for private provision of paging, cellular, and basic services were awarded. Several
licensing initiatives were not successfully completed.
1997                    Telecom Regulatory Authority of India established in March 1997
1997                    Commitments made to the World Trade Organization in respect of the agreement on basic
telecommunications service.
1998                    Department of Telecommunications (DOT)/VSNL monopoly on Internet service ended. Internet
Service Providers (ISPs) will be authorized to establish their own international links for Internet
traffic.
1999                    Govemment announced a new national telecommunications policy (NTP 99) which further promotes
competition and private investment, and enhances the role of TRAI. DoT's government and service
provision functions have been separated with the establishment of the Department of
Telecommunications Services (DoTS) responsible for provision of telecom services and the
remaining DoT responsible for government functions.
1999                   New re-balanced tariff initiative began May 1, 1999.
2000                    TRAI Act amended to separate the dispute settlement functions from its regulatory functions by
establishing Telecom Disputes Settement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT).
Sector Overview: An overview of the sector management/structure is shown in Table 2 overleaf and
summarized in the following paragraphs.
-3 -



Table 2: India Telecommunications Sector Overview
Existin2 Institutional Framework (April 2000)
Cate&eorv                  Description
Responsible Ministry                Ministry of Communications (through the Telecommunications Commission and
Department of Telecommunications)
Regulatory Agency                   TRAI/TDSAT/WPC for spectrum management
Licensing Authority                 Department of Telecommunications (DoT)
Legislation                         Indian Telegraphs Act (1885);
Indian Wireless Act (1933);
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act (1997);
TRAI (Amendment) Act (2000).
Regional/Local                      Most areas, DoTS; and in two major metropolitan areas, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd. (MTNL)
Basic Services                      which is majority owned by DoT. Competition to be provided through privately owned networks
in 21 "circles". Six licenses have been awarded/signed. Service has commenced in three of these
circles.
National Long-distance              DoTS (authorized private cellular/basic operators for intra-circle long-distance).
International service               Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd. (VSNL - majority-owned by DoTS) / Internet Service Providers (ISP)
Cellular Services                   Total of 42 networks provided by 22 private companies. In most areas there are
two service providers.
Internet/WWW                        New entry liberalized
Email; Paging                       Liberalized
The Telecommunications Commission (TC) is charged with formulating the Govemment's sector strategy.
The TC is chaired by the Secretary of the DoT in the Ministry of Communications (MoC). The WPC is
the national agency responsible for regulating and managing radio spectrum. The Telecommunications
Engineering Center (TEC) is responsible for setting technical standards for equipment and network
interconnection, forecasting technology, and raising awareness in support of policy formulation in the
telecommunications sector.
TRAI was established in 1997 as a statutory body with quasi-judicial powers to regulate
telecommunications services. TRAI is responsible for recommending the need and timing for the entry of
new service providers, recommending the terms and conditions of the licenses, ensuring technical
compatibility and effective interconnection between service providers, ensuring compliance of license
conditions including universal service obligations, establishing tariffs, monitoring carriers' quality of
service, and inspecting equipment.
The TRAI Act 1997 was amended effective January 24, 2000 by the promulgation of the TRAI
(Amendment) Act. Under the amended provisions, the Authority consists of a Chairperson, not more than
two full-time members, and not more than two part-time members, to be appointed by the Central
Government. The disputes-settlement functions formerly vested in TRAI under the TRAI Act 1997 have
now been transferred to the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT). The creation
of TDSAT has clarified the appeals process which no longer involves the high courts. Furthermore, the
TRAI (Amendment) Act specifies that the Chairperson and other members of TDSAT shall be appointed in
- 4 -



consultation with the Chief Justice of India. This and other provisions emphasize the impartiality and high
level of TDSAT. The Act has also made more explicit the Government's need to consult with TRAI on
introduction of new service providers and terms and conditions of their licenses. These changes have (a)
clarified and simplified the appeal process, and (b) strengthened TRAI's role in determining terms and
conditions for interconnection. The developments are consistent with India's WTO commitments on
telecommunications to adopt internationally practiced common regulatory principles with respect to
competitive safeguards, interconnection, universal service, public availability of licensing criteria, etc.
Main Sector Issues: The main sector issues can be classified under two broad categories: (a) sector
performance, and (b) private investment environment. The summary of these issues together with
Government response and strategy are discussed below.
Sector Performance: The performance of the Indian telecommunications sector has fallen far short of its
potential in the following areas:
*  High level of unmet demand. Although the telecommunications sector has attained a growth rate
of around 20% per annum since 1992, it is nowhere near meeting the rising demand for new
connections. The overall level of fixed telephone density in India is very low at approximately 2.6
lines per hundred persons compared to the world average of 10.5. It is lower than in China (4.5),
Indonesia (3.2) and Thailand (7.0). Not only is telephone density low, but there is a high level of
unmet demand for basic telephone service. Furthermore, the expansion of the cellular market
(currently with only about 1 million subscribers compared to about 28 million in China and 2
million in Thailand) has been much slower than expected. This low level of teledensity for both
fixed and cellular reflects the need for initiatives to attract the very large scale private investment
needed for the sector to meet the demand.
* Inadequate Availability of Telephone Service in Rural Areas. Approximately 74% of India's
population resides in rural areas where telephone density is estimated to be only about 0.3 lines per
hundred persons. Out of about 600,000 villages in India, only about 360,000 have access to
telephone facilities.
*  Low Efficiency. The main operator, DoTS (together with MTNL), has found it difficult to come
close to world-class efficiency levels in an environment where it has faced limited competition, and
needed to follow inflexible civil service procedures for staffing and procurement. For example,
with respect to staffing, DoTS has 28 lines per employee, compared to the international average of
160. The productivity is low even for example compared to Indonesia which is 130 lines per
employee.
Government Response 1994-97. During the period of 1994-97, and starting with the National
Telecommunications Policy issued in 1994, the Government adopted a series of important reforms to
respond to the above poor sector performance by creating new channels for private investment in the sector,
establishing for the first time in India competition in the provision of basic and cellular mobile services, and
establishing a regulatory authority. Thus, the reform measures included:
*   Passage of the TRAI Act which established TRAI as a statutory body in 1997 with quasi-judicial
powers to regulate telecommunications services.
*   Award of licenses in six out of the 21 circles to private operators to provide basic service in
competition with DoT and MTNL. These licenses include provision of intra-circle long distance
-5 -



service to their own subscribers.
*   Award of 42 licenses to private operators to provide cellular services.
However, the results fell short of the Government's expectations. The inflow of private investment was less
than what was needed to transform India's telecommunications sector.
Private Investment Environment: Many factors have contributed to the low take-up of licenses for basic
services and more generally for the low level of private investment in the sector. In general, the
implementation of the basic and cellular licensing policies failed to establish adequate incentives for high
levels of private investment to take place. Factors contributing to the poor private sector response include:
*   Private Operators 'High License Fees: Until 1999, private cellular and basic services operators
were committed to pay high license fees. These fees accounted for as much as 40% of the
operating costs for cellular as compared to about 6% in Singapore. One of the reasons for the high
license fees was the over estimation of profitability by the private operators during the bidding
process. Thus, the revenues realized by the private cellular operators were far short of their
projections. This has damaged the viability of network investment projects and resulted in
difficulty in arranging financing for these projects. (More recently GOI has decided to replace
certain fees by migrating to more investor-friendly revenue-sharing arrangements).
*   Distorted Tariff Structure: The price structure does not reflect costs and does not adequately
encourage local network investment. India's current tariff regime cross-subsidizes local calls by its
domestic and international long distance revenues. This has led to an inefficient allocation of
resources and has inhibited private investment in basic and cellular services.
*   Inadequate Interconnection Arrangement: Interconnection and revenue sharing arrangements
between DoT and new private licensees, together with other license terms such as the duration of
the licenses, are insufficiently attractive.
*   National Long Distance: Some important market segments, such as national long-distance
telephony, remained closed. (This issue is addressed in the NTP 1999 but implementation of
competition in the segment has not started).
*   Ineffective Spectrum Management: Ineffective radio spectrum management has been identified as a
significant problem by several private investors in the sector. Problems have included excessively
slow processing of license applications, inadequate or inefficient bandwidth allocations,
interference caused by unauthorized radio transmissions, and delays in resolving interference
problems. As in many other countries, radio-based telecommunications technology is vitally
important for new entry, rural connectivity, cellular telephony, Internet service, and provision of
other new services.
*   Technical Standards Setting: The proliferation of networks and operators in India has made the
link between technical standards and authorizations to erect telecommunications infrastructure
increasingly important. India needs a well developed telecommunications standard and
harmonization process that is consistent with international guidelines. TEC's activities are
currently heavily oriented towards supporting DoT's operations rather than on technical standard
setting and monitoring compliance, and advising DoT on policy implications on
telecommunications technology developments. In order to effectively address the future needs of
- 6 -



the rapidly emerging multi-vendor environment, TEC needs to be strengthened.
* Separation ofDoT's Government and service provision functions: Given the leadership role of
DoT in the license award process for both basic and cellular services, one of the underlying
problems has been the conflict of interest within DoT as both the licensing authority and the main
operator. To ensure transparent and accountable development of policies in the sector, the
government and service provision functions of DoT were separated by establishing the Department
of Telecommunications Services (DoTS) in late 1999 as a precursor to corporatization of the
service provision function. DoT has requested proposals from consultants to assist in the
corporatization.
*   TRAI: Although TRAI has quickly established an excellent reputation for transparency and
consultative processes, it is a young organization and faced significant problems in its first years of
operation. For example, TRAI was not consulted on the introduction of new service providers.
Moreover, court challenges led to rulings that TRAI could not influence or determine the
interconnection regime. These problems, as well as controversy over TRAI's 1999 tariff ruling
have now been successfully addressed, in part by the TRAI (Amendment) Act 2000. Nevertheless,
at the time they contributed to uncertainty and inadequate incentive for private investment in the
sector.
Government Strategy. Drawing on lessons of the first phase of the reforms (1994-97) and aware that a
competitive and well regulated telecommunications sector is essential for India's remarkably fast growing
IT sector, the Government launched a second phase of reforms.
v  In April 1998, the National Task Force on Information Technology and Software Development
was appointed to address critical national needs in the areas of telecommunications, information
infrastructure, Internet access, software development, electronic commerce, and others. In July
1998, the recommendations of the Task Force were adopted by resolution of the Planning
Commission. These recommendations significantly broaden and deepen India's economic reform
process by encouraging competition, entrepreneurship and innovation in the area of IT. The
Government's seriousness in implementing reforrn policies for the telecommunications and IT
sector are further confirmed by the announcement of the Prime Minister in November of 1998, of a
liberal Intemet access policy. Foreign companies will be allowed stakes of up to 49% in Internet
Service Providers (ISPs), there will be no limit on the number of licensees and minimal license
fees, ISPs will be allowed their own international gateway access, and will be free to install "last
mile access" data communication lines for customers.
* In December 1998, the Prime Minister established a high level Task Force (Group on
Telecommunications (GoT)) mandated to establish a new telecommunications policy for India that
would recognize the indispensable need to expand and modernize telecommunications
infrastructure and establish a competitive and well-regulated telecommunications environment. In
February 1999, the GoT posted on the world-wide web its draft discussion paper for the New
Telecom Policy 1999 for suggestions and comments. The solicitation for suggestions revealed the
Government's commitment to broad participation and transparency. Besides the suggestions from
the Bank, there were around 17,000 responses from public, institutions, financiers, operators and
users.
* TRAI announced a new telephone tariffs decision on March 9, 1999 to come into effect on May 1,
1999. The new tariffs will substantially re-structure telephone service prices over a three year
-7 -



period. These price changes will significantly improve incentives for local network investment.
TRAI has also programmed an agenda of regulatory activity to address several other important
regulatory matters, such as: review of domestic long distance competition, inter-connection
arrangements, numbering plan, quality of service, rules of business, customer satisfaction, carrier
performance monitoring, regulatory aspects of information infrastructure, and others.
* The Government announced the new telecommunications policy (i.e. NTP 1999) on March 26,
1999. The new policy recognizes that provision of world class telecommunications and
information infrastructure is a key to rapid economic development for India, is critical for the
Information Technology industry, and has widespread ramifications for the entire economy. It is a
progressive policy and addresses several key outstanding issues that have inhibited the flow of
substantial private sector investment in the sector which is required to improve sector performance.
Key features of the proposed policy and actions already taken are as follows:
Long distance service to be opened to competition. Existing backbone networks of public
and private power transmission companies, railways etc. can be utilized for national long
distance voice communication. TRAI has already submitted to the Government its
recommendation for national long distance service competition.
Multiple basic operators to replace duopoly in basic service and four cellular operators
will be allowed per area. DoT or MTNL will be the third cellular operator in each area.
DoTs govermnent and service provision functions to be separated as a precursor to
corporatization. Most recently the Department of Telecommunications Services has been
established with a separate secretary within the MoC to separate the service provision
versus government functions of DoT.
One time entry fees and revenue sharing to replace the current license fees scheme for new
licenses have been recommended by TRAI. TRAI has started the consultative process for
formulating its recommendation on revenue sharing arrangements for existing cellular and
basic operators. This would also include recommendations on entry of more operators,
license fee structure and other terms and conditions for cellular and basic service
operators.
Commitment to a strong regulator independent from the operators and with comprehensive
powers and clear authority to effectively perform its functions. The promulgation of the
TRAI (Amendment) Ordinance, 2000 on January 24, 2000 (see above) will greatly
strengthen TRAI's authority.
Spectrum to be utilized efficiently, economically, and optimally. The Government will
institute a transparent process of allocation of frequency spectrum. WPC has published
the National Frequency Allocation Plan 2000 (NFAP).
Effective January 2000 the TRAI (Amendment) Act clarifies the appeals process with
respect to TRAI decisions, strengthens TRAI's role in determining terms and conditions for
interconnection, and establishes the new impartial, high-level TDSAT.
- 8 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues to be addressed by the project. The project will strengthen the institutional base necessary to build
a modem telecommunications sector and includes the following:
*   Strengthening Spectrum Management: WPC will be strengthened to effectively discharge all
functions of radio spectrum management and radio regulatory process to match international
spectrum management practices. Complete state-of-the-art computerization with networking and
modernized spectrum monitoring facilities for effective control and regulation will be provided.
WPC will be in a position to assign frequencies based on electromagnetic compatibility (EMC)
evaluation and with minimal need for coordination. Furthermore, WPC organization will be
studied by consultants to recommend suitable organizational structure. These components will
strengthen WPC's role as a competent and professional body. This will make private investment in
the deployment of wireless technologies more attractive and cost effective and improve the quality
of service. In addition, it will facilitate access to service in the rural areas which rely on
availability of spectrum in order to use wireless technologies.
*  Strengthening TRAI: TRAI will be strengthened by Bank support through technical assistance,
and by access to the Bank's extensive international experience on telecommunications regulation.
Consultancy support will lead to the promulgation of public consultation papers on several issues
including: network interconnection, Internet telephony, third generation mobile telephony, equal
access for national long distance competition, universal service, and cable TV local telephony.
-  Strengthening Technical Standard Setting: TEC is not fully equipped to handle its mandate to set
technical standards for equipment and network interconnection, raise awareness in support of
policy formulation in the multi-operator environment, and respond to the rapid advances in
technology. While the Government is taking action to strengthen TEC's capacity to meet its
mandate, the project will support raising awareness in TEC to the need for setting standards in
regard to emerging technologies.
Strategic Choices. In selecting the above areas, the project supports the Government's efforts to strengthen
the environment to promote private investment and competition and responds to the requests of the
Government. The project intentionally does not address:
*  Licensing of circles for basic service where bids have been awarded The completion of these
license award processes is a complex and contentious area which, in several cases, involve legal
disputes. The Government has decided to adopt the revenue sharing regime to address the issues
faced by the existing telecom private operator licenses. Furthermore, Government officials have
not requested Bank involvement in this aspect. Nevertheless the project is addressing key
constraints to new entry, such as spectrum management and long distance competition.
* Separation of DoT's government versus service provision functions. The Government has
announced through the new telecom policy, the separation of DoT's government and service
provision functions. The policy and licensing functions of DoT have been separated from the
service functions by setting up a separate Department of Telecom Services as a precursor to
corporatization. DoT has initiated actions to hire consultants to assist with this task and hence
GOI has not requested assistance for corporatization of service provision of DoT.
*   Institutional Development of DoTService Provision Function. This area is regarded as beyond
the scope of the project which focuses on the development and strengthening of the policy and
-9-



regulatory environment to promote private investment and competition in the telecommunications
sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Amnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A detailed description of the project components for DoT, including WPC and TEC, and TRAI/TDSAT
and estimates of detailed cost breakdown are provided in Annex 2 and 3, respectively. The summary of
project components, estimated cost and proposed Bank financing are provided in the Table below. The
total project cost is estimated at US$ 72 million excluding customs duties and local taxes, with a foreign
cost component of US$ 62 million.
_ l           = .~~~~~~~~~~~~a                            f fall I
TA for DoT Component (DoT, WPC    Telecommunicati       2.70        3.7      2.15        3.5
and TEC)                           ons &
Informatics
Spectrum Management & Monitoring                       62.67       87.0     54.23       87.5
Equipment
Support of PCU/PIU                                      0.50        0.7      0.00        0.0
TA for TRAI                                             4.95        6.9      4.50        7.3
TA for TDSAT                                            0.56        0.8      0.50        0.8
Total Project Costs                   71.38       99.1      61.38      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.62        0.9       0.62       1.0
Total Financing Required                    72.00      100.0     62.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will strengthen the institutional framework and capacity of the government agencies responsible
for telecommunications sector, regulating service providers, and managing the radio spectrum.
Specifically, the project will:
(a) Strengthen TRAI's and TDSAT's capacity and capability to manage regulatory issues. For
example, this work will include supporting TRAI's assessment of the introduction of national
long-distance and interconnection arrangements and charges in the multi-operator environment;
(b) Strengthen WPC's capacity to (i) achieve the NTP 1999 policy objective to have a transparent
process of allocation of frequency spectrum which is effective and efficient, (ii) review the spectrum
allocations in a planned manner so that frequency bands are available to the service providers, (iii)
improve the quality of all publications and documentation sent to the public, (iv) gradually introduce
more detail into the NFAP, thus reducing time taken to introduce new services or existing services to
expand to meet customer demand, and (v) initiate studies to establish a more market-oriented approach
- 10-



to spectrum allocation.
The separation of DoT's government versus service provision functions together with a predictable and
transparent regulatory framework regime, including spectrum management, are needed to improve investor
confidence and facilitate increased private investment. In addition, during this period of market, structural
and regulatory transformation of the Indian telecommunications sector, in which options are being
considered that are new for India, the project will support institutional reform by providing access to
officials on the lessons of international experience of telecommunications reform and regulation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The achievement of the project development objective to promote private investment and competition in the
Indian telecommunications sector through strengthening elements of the policy and regulatory environment,
will, in conjunction with the Government's overall reform initiatives for the sector, contribute to (a)
substantially increased private investment in the sector, (b) increased competition, and (c) more effective
policy and regulatory interventions in the public interest. Furthermore, the radio spectrum management
component will greatly enhance the value and productivity benefits to be obtained from the efficient
utilization of radio spectrum in India. These results will accelerate the expansion of telephone networks to
meet unmet demand including in previously unserved areas, enhance market incentives for significantly
improved efficiency in the provision of telecommunications services, and enhance both market and
regulatory incentives for improved quality of service. The ultimate beneficiaries of the overall reform
program therefore will be small, medium and large businesses, individual subscribers, and customers of
pay phone service. Among businesses, the importance of excellent telecommunications for India's
computer software business sector has already been noted.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over four years, July 1, 2000 through June 30,
2004.
Project Implementation and Coordination. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in DoT will be
responsible for the overall project coordination. The PCU will have a dedicated Senior Finance Officer to
manage and report on financial aspects. The responsibility for project implementation of the DoT
component for WPC and TEC will rest with the Project Implementation Units (PIU) for each of the
sub-components. The responsibility for project implementation at TRAI will rest with its Project
Management Unit (PMU), which has already been established. At TDSAT the PMU will be set up later.
The PIUs and the PMU will have the responsibility for book-keeping, record keeping, preparation of
periodic Project Management Reports (PMRs) and annual audits of PMRs. The project will start on
traditional disbursements and will produce the full set of PMRs from the beginning and there will be a
determination for moving to PMR-based disbursements with 12 months of effectiveness, based on mutual
agreement.
Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditArrangements. An assessment of the financial management
systems in the implementing agencies of the project, i.e., DoT (including TEC and WPC), and TRAI, has
been carried out to ensure that the arrangements are adequate to meet the Bank's requirements specified in
OP/BP 10.02 and the guidelines under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). When TDSAT
is established, the Bank will review its financial management arrangements to ensure that they are
satisfactory to the Bank. The project provides technical assistance to TRAI, TDSAT and DoT, and will
finance one large contract for procurement of spectrum management system by WPC (approximately USD
54 million). In view of this relatively limited procurement work-load, complex project accounting and
- 11 -



management systems are not envisaged under this project.
The financial management systems and procedures followed by DoT (including WPC and TEC) essentially
follow a cash-based government accounting system. DoT will open separate account heads to capture the
project expenditures of TEC and WPC. TRAI follows accrual system of accounting. Financial
management function in DoT is manned by a separate cadre of Telecom Accounts & Finance Service.
WPC currently has no separate accounting staff. Both WPC and TEC will assign, separately, a dedicated
Finance and Accounts Officer to manage project accounting. In addition, DoT will assign a senior finance
professional to be part of the PCU. The Officer will be responsible for review of PMRs submitted by the
PIUs and PMU, consolidation of PMRs, coordination with the Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit
(CAA&A) and early completion of audit. TRAI officers have wide experience in the Finance & Accounts
functions in govemment and public sector undertakings, in procurement (including World Bank
procurement), revenue, budget & control, accounting, payroll, and audit functions. TRAI will assign a
dedicated Finance and Accounts Officer to manage project accounting.
DoT and TRAI follow the government budgeting system procedures in formulation of annual budgets. The
process of utilization of resources by DoT is through the budget mechanism. In the current set up, funds
required by TRAI are released through DoT. For this project, the PCU will be responsible for ensuring
release of adequate funds on a timely manner to TRAI, WPC, and TEC. For this purpose TRAI, WPC and
TEC will submit quarterly funding requirements to the PCU which will be responsible for ensuring timely
release of fuinds. Under the project, a Special Account will be established in the Reserve Bank of India to
be operated by the CAA&A.
Disbursements: Disbursements from IBRD loan would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure), with quarterly PMRs
submitted from the start of the project. PMR-based disbursements are expected to start twelve months
after loan effectiveness based on mutual agreement.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$4.0 million equivalent would cover
eligible expenditure for implementation of activities since August 15, 1999 based on a Statement of
Expenditure.
Project Reporting Requirements, Monitoring and Evaluations Arrangements: The PCU, PMU and
PIUs will be responsible for maintaining records and accounts of the activities under their respective
project components. PIUs in WPC and TEC, and the PMU in TRAI will submit quarterly PMRs to the
PCU in DoT. The Finance and Accounts Officer in the PCU will review and compile the PMRs for
transmission to the Bank through the CAA&A. The Project reporting, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements will include: (a) quarterly PMRs; (b) bi-annual Bank supervision missions; (c) joint
DoT/Bank and TRAI/Bank annual progress reviews and a mid-term review (about two years after the date
of effectiveness of the loan); and (d) a completion report to be transmitted by the GOI to the Bank within
six months of the closing of the Project. The annual and mid-term reviews will be conducted jointly
between DoT and the Bank and TRAI and the Bank on the basis of a report prepared by the PCU in such a
manner as to: (a) assess progress in the implementation of key actions and performance indicators (see
Annex 1); (b) verify the continued validity of the design assumptions in light of implementation experience
and the evolving environment; and (c) identify remedial actions that might prove necessary to achieve the
Project's objectives.
Audit: There will be audit reports for three entities (i.e. DoT, TRAI, TDSAT) and these will be submitted
to the Bank through DoT. Project Financial Statements would be audited annually in accordance with
- 12 -



standards on auditing acceptable to the Bank by an independent auditor (viz. the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India (C&AG). The audit of project accounts would include an assessment of the adequacy of
accounting and internal control systems, ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions, and
eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing. The audited Project Financial Statements together with the
auditors opinion, separately for DoT, TRAI and TDSAT would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year. The audit report on the Special Account maintained by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would include a summary of SA transactions and the closing
balance held by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The audit report on SA would be submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rationale. The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the telecommunications sector,
which calls for shifting the government's role from ownership and operations to policy making and
regulation, promoting competition, efficiency, service quality, and increased private sector participation in
investments and provision of services (OP 4.50). The project will make an important contribution to the
development of policy and regulation in the Indian telecommunications sector and facilitate continued
dialogue with the Bank on sector development. For example, the project is financing TRAI's very
important work to review (pursuant to India's WTO commitments) the introduction of national
long-distance competition. As for spectrum management, the demand for spectrum for radio-based services
will continue to grow, thereby intensifying the spectrum problems now plaguing India unless the proposed
ASMS facilities and associated procedures are implemented. However, this increasingly serious problem
could be turned into real opportunities for economic growth by installing the ASMS, which will help
accommodate various demand elements discussed earlier under "Private Investment Environment". As in
many other countries, radio-based telecommunications technology is vitally important for new entry, rural
connectivity, cellular telephony, Internet service, and provision of other new services. In several countries,
such as Sri Lanka, Thailand and Indonesia, wireless-based new entry has played a very important role.
Alternatives. Several alternatives have been considered:
Status quo. One alternative to the Bank's participation would be to do nothing in the hope that the
private sector will increasingly invest in the sector. However, until now, failure to establish
appropriate and essential incentives for private investment in the sector have held back potentially
enormous private investment necessary to transform the performance of the sector. In this context,
support to WPC and TRAI is critical to improve key elements of the regulatory environment which
are needed to ensure the successful implementation of the Government's new telecom policy.
Privatization / Corporatization of DoT. The corporatization and possible eventual full
government disinvestment of DoT's enterprise operations was considered as a project component.
The Government, however, has decided to handle this issue without Bank support at this stage.
Licensing. Assisting the Government in completing the licensing of basic service providers in the
circles where DoT received bids but had not awarded licenses was considered but not pursued
given the legal and commercial issues involved. The Government is not seeking Bank assistance in
this area.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
0 " : tX iX ~~~~~~~~~Latest S0 t0ervis ionV 05 -0 
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Telecommunications                Telecom. IX (closed)              S             S
Infrastructure                    ILFS-Infrastructure Finance      U             U
(on going)
Hazard Management (IT component)  A.P. Emergency Cyclone (on       U             U
going)
Energy                            Second Powergrid Development
Project (planned)
Economic Reform                   Technical Assistance for
Economic Reform (planned)
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank Technical   Assistance Project TA
261 1-IND Assisting TRAI in
developing a new tariff and
interconnection regime.
Canadian International Development   Training and study tours for
Agency                            DoT, WPC, TEC and TRAI
staff.
International Finance Corporation (IFC) Investnents in paging and
Project                           cellular operators.
Multilateral Investment Guarantee  Guarantee to Motorola for
Agency (M1GA)                     investment in a cellular
operator.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 14 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
International Experience. Experiences from other countries demonstrate that clear up-front policy
decisions and the establishment of a transparent legal and regulatory framework lead to increased private
investments and improved operations. Furthennore, the momentum created by policy reform initiatives can
lead to sustained sector growth provided implementation is undertaken promptly. The existence of an
independent regulator within a stable regulatory framework encourages higher levels of investment and
more rapid development of services which are being opened to competition (e.g., basic, cellular,
value-added-services). Support of TRAI and TDSAT through this project is consistent with the lessons
learned. In countries where radio spectrum management has fallen into disarray, competitive new entry has
been severely constrained.
Bank Experience in TA Projects in South Asia. A 1995 review indicated that the World Bank's
experience in technical assistance projects in South Asia has not been altogether positive. That review also
recommended concrete measures to improve the performance of sector reform projects: (i) projects should
be designed as part of a broader strategy for institutional development; (ii) borrower commitment must be
assessed carefully and tested through up-front action; and (iii) monitoring indicators should be introduced.
These measures have been incorporated into the project design. In particular, suitable performance
benchmarks have been identified to monitor project progress and facilitate early corrective actions, if
necessary.
Radio Spectrum Management Experience. The Bank has significant experience with radio spectrum
management projects in several countries, such as Mexico, Pakistan, Romania, Sri Lanka, and Turkey. In
a frequency management project in Mexico, the software did not perform properly, and this caused
problems in the operation of the whole frequency management system which took time to resolve. The
lesson learned was that the main radio frequency management system should be procured in one package,
including software, with initial assistance in operations, and guarantees by a reputable supplier to ensure its
proper functioning.
Experience on Borrower Commitment. The project design reflects the well-known lesson that reform
projects are likely to succeed when there is commitment at the highest level. Hence, this project focuses on
the areas where the Govemment of India is committed to take action. In addition, the Government sees the
Bank as a unique source of cross-country experience and has requested Bank involvement in the sector.
Procurement Experiencea Several Bank projects in India have experienced procurement problems. The
design of the procurement arrangements undertaken as part of project preparation address these problems.
Advance procurement actions on priority consultancy assignments have already been initiated by TRAI
using retroactive financing. Likewise, WPC has also hired consultants to prepare bid documents for
spectrum management and monitoring systems, and institutional diagnostics.
IFC Experience in the Indian Telecommunications Sector. IFC's experience with investments in paging
and cellular operators in India has been factored in the design of the project. In particular, the project
design reflects the need to improve the incentives for private investment through appropriate policy,
licensing, and regulatory framework.
- 15 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Reforms Locked-in. Despite slow progress in implementing the National Telecommunications Policy
(1994), the fact remains that the policy included very important reform elements, such as the introduction
of private investment and competition in the provision of basic services. Subsequently, transformation of
the sector through, licensing of multiple private cellular operators has occurred, and the Government has
chosen to lock-in these elements in its 1997 commitment to the World Trade Organization. Further
evidence of the Government's commitment to reform and development of the sector is the establishment of
the independent sector regulator in February 1997. On March 26, 1999, the Government announced a
far-reaching telecommunications policy which addresses key outstanding issues. This will help advance
India much further along the path on which it has already embarked, promoting competition, attracting
private investment and confiming the importance of TRAI. Effective January 2000, the TRAI
(Amendment) Act strengthens the role of TRAI on network interconnection and establishes the impartial,
high-level TDSAT.
National Task Force on IT. The Government confirmed its commitment to development of India's
information infrastructure when Prime Minister Vajpayee declared in 1998 that promotion of infonnation
technology would be one of his government's top five priorities. The subsequent Action Plan (as outlined in
the National Task Force on Information Technology and Software Development, April 1998) sets forth 108
specific recommendations covering both bottlenecks and broad promotional measures in
telecommunications and other areas crucial for boosting information technology in India. These
recommendations were adopted by resolution of the Planning Commission in July 1998. By April 2000,
DoT had authorized 17 Internet Services Providers to operate their own intemational gateways for Internet
traffic.
Retroactive financing. Also reflecting its commitment to the project, the Government has agreed to
initially finance the project from its own funds and then seek retroactive funding from the Bank for up to
US$ 4,000,000 for expenditures made prior to effectiveness but after April 15, 1999. In addition, the
government desires to realize competitive prices through the Bank's international competitive procurement
process and has sought Bank financing for the radio spectrum management system.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
International Experience on Telecommunications Sector Reform. The Bank is involved in dialogue on
sector reform in around fifty countries, including Bangladesh, Indonesia, Nepal, and Thailand. The Indian
Government has explicitly stressed the value added of Bank support in terms of its unique international
experience in addressing telecommunications sector reform issues and establishing regulatory frameworks.
Thus, this experience, together with the Bank's neutrality, is attractive for the Government.
Experience in Radio Spectrum Modernization. In addition to the very extensive experience the Bank has
accumulated in every continent on telecommunications sector reform, it has also developed significant
experience in supporting world best practice approach to spectrum management.
International Competitive Bidding: Bank experience in international competitive bidding in other
countries, with respect to procurement of telecommunications equipment under Bank procurement
guidelines, indicates a significant cost savings of around 35%.
Access to High Level Officials. The Bank's access to key high level officials in countries which have
successfully undertaken reform programs will permit senior officials to discover for themselves lessons
from international experience.
- 16 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project supports elements of the Government's overall telecommunications sector reform program. It is
difficult to provide a quantitative estimate of the response of the private investors to the regulatory and
policy environment. Furthermore, the benefits of improved telecommunications services are not exclusively
private. Network externalities and the use of information and communications technologies in education,
health, and other social services may imply social benefits which need to be taken into account in assessing
the economic impact of telecommunications investment. Some of the benefits associated with the major
project components would include, inter alia, the following:
(a) Upgrading WPC's radio frequency management through implementation of a modern spectrum
management system and restructuring of WPC's organizational structure and procedures would bring
various benefits. First, it would free up additional frequencies available to private operators. In some
cases this will involve relocating existing assignments, including Government agencies in some cases.
Second, it would minimize radio interference and thus improve the quality of service. Third, it would
accelerate the process of obtaining new frequency licenses. Fourth, it would reduce the investment risk
of private operators--mainly in wireless services. Most importantly, it would enable WPC to lead the
industry towards more productive spectrum use and adoption of uniform technical standards which
would benefit telecommunications customers.
(b) Strengthening TRAI's regulatory capacity will help establish a more credible, transparent legal
and regulatory framework. The existence of an independent regulator within a stable regulatory
framework is likely to encourage higher levels of investment and more rapid development of services
being opened to competition (e.g., basic, cellular, value-added services).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The project supports elements of the Government's overall telecommunications reform program, therefore it
is difficult to identify the fiscal impact associated with the project. Although Government revenues from
telecom license fees will now be lower than the sometimes infeasible amounts that were bid when the
licenses were first awarded, increased tax revenue resulting from a rapid expansion of private investment in
the sector may be large. Thus, the project is expected to have positive net fiscal impact.
- 17 -



3. Technical:
The project is technically sound. Its design takes into account: (a) lessons learned from similar
operations in other countries and other operations in India, (b) the ongoing dialogue of the Bank with the
Government on the Country Framework Paper for private sector participation in the infrastructure sectors
including telecommunications; (c) work by the GoT and its Spectrum Management Group on a new policy
for telecommunications; (c) discussions with the stakeholders; (d) a number of assessments of the
telecommunications sector in India. The project will provide technical assistance to strengthen the key
regulatory agencies, WPC, TRAI and TDSAT.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
*  Department of Telecommunications (including Wireless Planning and Coordination Wing, and
Telecommunications Engineering Center),
*  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, and Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate
Tribunal.
b. Project management:
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for the coordination of the overall project
components. The responsibility for project implementation of the DoT component for WPC and TEC will
rest with the Project Implementation Units (PIU) for each of the sub-components. The responsibility for
project implementation at TRAI and TDSAT will rest with Project Management Units (PMU).
5. Social:
There are no resettlement and social issues in the implementation of this project.
6. Environmental assessment:            Environment Category: C (Not Required)
There are no major environmental issues. This project would assist India in reforming the
telecommunications sector and would not involve any construction or other activity affecting the
environment. Equipment will be housed in existing buildings and communications will use DoTS' existing
network, therefore no digging will be needed. Antennas will be installed, to the extent possible, on existing
towers and/or roof tops. The project will therefore have no adverse impact on the environment and should
be given an environmental "C" rating.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
- 18 -



Participatory Approach                  Preparation        Implementation
a) Government representatives: Line and relevant ministries  CON/CON          CON/COL
and government agencies were fully involved at the outset and
will be closely consulted throughout the project to ensure
effective implementation and that the objectives of the project
are met.
IS/COL              IS/CON
b) Private sector: The private sector operators/investors and
local experts in the sector were consulted during the project
design. The private sector's views will be further solicited
during the implementation of the proposed activities.
c) Other donors: Donors in the telecommunications sector
have been consulted and will continue to be consulted during  IS/CON           IS/CON
the preparation and supervision.
CON=Consultation
COL=Collaboration
IS=Information Sharing
b. Other key stakeholders:
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The concept of sustainability as applied to this project has different aspects. The largest project component
is to modernize the WPC management of the radio spectrum in India. This initiative will be sustainable in
as much as the new systems will generate increased revenue due to allocation of frequencies for new service
providers and expansion of existing networks to meet customers' demand. Both training and other key
aspects such as maintenance of an accurate user database that links technical and administrative details for
each licensee, and periodic review of NFAP, are addressed in the project. With respect to TRAI, the
project strengthens the regulatory capacity of TRAI. TRAI has made important progress in a short period
of time to establish its credibility through the adoption of excellent consultative mechanisms, and the recent
changes to TRAI Act have strengthened its role. However, TRAIs effectiveness could be undermined due
to lack of financial independence. This risk is moderated by TRAI's ability to levy fees, on regulated
companies to cover its operational costs.
- 19 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Riski Risk                               . t   . RkLImiztioNi WiesreA    i
From Outputs to Objective
Government will not maintain its          M         Despite the uneven progress in reform of the
commitment to sector reform as                      sector, the Government has shown a sustained
articulated in NTP 99.                              commitment to introducing competition and
private investment to the sector, including: its
WTO commitments, supporting the TRAI in its
price review recommendation in 1999, the
issuance of the NTP 99, the separation of DoT
and DoTS, in moving to resolve the license fee
problems, and authorization of multiple
international gateways for ISPs.
Government's efforts to separate DoTs      S        The Department of Telecom Service has already
government and service provision                    been established to separate the service
functions and corporatization of DoTS               provision functions of DoT. This is a precursor
are not realized in a timely manner.                to the planned corporatization of the service
provision functions of DoT by 2002. The
Government has requested proposals from
consultants to assist in the corporatization of
DoTS.
Position of WPC is undermined by lack of  M         Institutional independence of WPC is reinforced
institutional independence                          by the separation of DoTs government and
service provision's already brought into effect by
the establishment of DoTS.
Effectiveness of WPC is undermined by     M         WPC has access to a large pool of well qualified
inability to retain skilled staff                   telecom engineers. The project provides for
training.
TRAI's ability to carry out its mandate is  M       TRAI has the ability to levy fees on regulated
undermined by lack of resources                     companies to cover its operating costs.
Furthermore, priority tasks and training are
being funded under the project. Essential role of
regulator is recognized in NTP 99.
From Components to Outputs
Procurement of ASMS is not implemented    M         This risk is minimized by advance preparation
in a timely and effective way.                      of bid documents with assistance of consultants.
TRAI management is not effective in       N         TRAI has a good track record in developing and
carrying out consultancies and using                issuing consultation papers.
consultation papers.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
- 20 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The most important risk for the project is that the GOI fails to support an effective regulatory framework.
This risk is mitigated by the following three factors:
a) Despite the uneven progress in reform of the sector, the Government has shown a sustained
commitment to introducing competition and private investment to the sector, including: its WTO
commitments, supporting the TRAI in its price review recommendation in 1999, the issuance of the
NTP 99, the separation of DoT and DoTS, in moving to resolve the license fee problems (caused in
large part by overbidding by the private sector), and authorization of multiple international gateways
for ISPs.
b) The regulatory framework has been clarified by recent legislation, which has given TRAI clear
authority over interconnection and introduced an appeals system to a specialized body, TDSAT, rather
than through the High Courts.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial issues with respect to social, ecological and pollution aspects under the project.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Board Presentation:
Expenditure Finance Committee (EFC) clearance. (This clearance has been confirmed via fax
dated May 8, 2000).
2. Effectiveness conditions:
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
e   WPC to formulate by December 31, 2000 a time bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
strengthening radio spectrum management and monitoring and implement such plan.
*  TRAI to issue by December 31, 2001 consultative papers on (i) model framework for interconnection;
(ii) Customer Satisfaction and Performance Monitoring; and (iii) Information Infrastructure.
* TDSAT to submit not later than June 30, 2001 to the Bank a time bound action plan for implementing
a program of technical assistance.
*  WPC by June 30, 2003 to implement a state-of-the art computerized licensing system and install
modernized spectrum monitoring facilities for effective control and regulation.
*   GOI to make available to TRAI, TDSAT, TEC and WPC through DoT the proceeds of the Loan to
enable these agencies to carry out activities under the project, in accordance with a time schedule and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
* DoT to maintain the Project Coordination Unit and ensure required staffing during the implementation
of the project.
*  TRAI to maintain the Project Management Unit and ensure required staffing during the
implementation of the project.
*  WPC and TEC to maintain their Project Implementation Units and ensure required staffing during the
- 21 -



implementation of the project.
*  DoT PCU will ensure that the quarterly PMRs are furnished to the Bank within forty five days of the
close of the quarter.
*   Commitment and disbursement will be made for Technical Assistance for TDSAT only after the Bank
is satisfied with the action plan and that adequate financial management arrangements are in place to
utilize the funds efficiently.
* The audited Project Financial Statements including separate auditor's opinions for DoT and TRAI,
would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
*   The audit report on the Special Account (SA) maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs
(DEA) would include a summary of SA transactions and the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI). The audit report on SA would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
B 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
[ 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
B 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
i. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
B 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommnended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rajesh B. Pradhan                Mafilou Jane D. Uy                Edwin Lim
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Key P~fI fit                                   Critie  -
"e"AMOy P OhhqtIhes-                                                                       to" .  . -vaIua*    CriaI A s
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote enabling         Increase in FDI.        Government statistics.   Stable macroeconomics
environment for private                                                   environment and
capital and management to  Increase in Private                            government continues its
enter various sectors of the  Investment / Total                          economic reforn program.
economy, particularly   Investment
infrastructure.
Project Development     Outcome / Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Strengthen elements of  Inter-circle domestic long   DoT/TRAI Statistics  Govemment will maintain
policy and regulatory    distance service opened to                       its commitment to sector
framework to promote    competition, latest by 2001. Information provided by    reform as articulated in its
private investment and                           Operators Associations   National Telecom Policy of
competition in the      Pro-competitve                                     1999, including further
telecommunications sector  interconnection regime in   Other sources (e.g.,  liberalization of the sector
in India.               place, latest by 2002.   Economic Intelligence Unit, and timely corporatization
Consultants reports,    of DoTS.
industry publications, etc.)
Assign frequencies for                           Sufficient domestic and
ear-marked bands within 15                       foreign private sector
days of applications, latest                     interest for investment in the
by 2004.                                         sector.
-23 -



Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
a) Strengthen Government  Implementation of agreed   Progress Management  Government efforts to
functions of DoT staff    training program, including Reports and Supervision,  increase early separation of
(including WPC and TEC). study tours.                                   DoT's policy and enterprise
Annual Review of training  functions and
and staffing during     corporatization of DoTS are
Supervision in November of successful.
each year.
b) Build WPC's capacity   Publish National Frequency Progress Management and  Position of WPC is not
and to manage radio     Allocation Plan by 2001.   WPC Annual Reports.  undermined by the lack of
spectrum optimally                                                      institutional independence.
Implement a state-of-the-art WPC Annual Reports and  Can recruit and retain
computerized licensing  Statistics on quality of  sufficient number of skilled
system and install      service targets and periodic staff.
modernized spectrum     review of ASMS
monitoring facilities for    implementation schedule.
effective control and
regulation by 2003.
c) Strengthen TRAI and    Issuance by December 31,  Progress Management  Government will maintain
TDSAT capacity to regulate 2001 consultative papers on: Reports.        its commitment to sector
the sector.                                                             reform and effective
a) Inter-connection in  TRAI Annual Report.     regulatory framework as
multi-operator environment.                     articulated in its National
Receipt of consultative  Telecom Policy '99.
b) Licensing/Spectrum   papers
Management for third                            Availability of adequate
generation mobile.                              funding to carryout its
mandate.
c) Regulatory issue on
Internet Telephony and
Information Infrastructure.
d) Equal Ease Access in the
context of National Long
distance opening.
- 24 -



Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Evalation  Critical Assumptions
Issuance by December 31,
2002 consultative papers
on:
a) Study of Universal
service funding
methodology.
b) Regulatory issues
relating to access by cable
operators.
c) Regulatory issues
relating to introduction of
Intelligent Network services
based on IN platform.
d) Techno-economic issues
relating to number
portability in a
multi-operator environent.
- 25 -



Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
DoT Components:                                  Progress Monitoring
Reports
a) Training for DoT     US$0.18 million
policy/regulatory staff.
b) Training TEC staff.    US$0.58 million
c) Training and         US$1.94 million
Consultancy for WPC.
d) Equipment - Automated  US$62.67 million                               Procurement is implemented
Spectrum Management and                                                  in a timely and effective
Monitoring System.                                                       way.
e) Support for PCU/PIU    US$0.50 million
TRAI and TDSAT                                   Progress Monitoring     TRAI management is
Components:                                      Reports                 effective in carrying out
consultancies and using
consultation papers.
a) Training and Consultancy US$4.95 million
TRAI
b) Training and Consultancy US$0.56 million
TDSAT
Front-end Fee           US$0.62 million
TOTAL PROJECT COST US$72.00 million
-26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The objective of this project is to strengthen elements of the policy and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector in India to enhance private investment, competition, rural connectivity and
customer satisfaction. This will be achieved through two distinct but inter-related components, namely:
(1) the DoT component and (2) the TRAI/TDSAT component.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$65.87 million
(1)    DoT Component
This component includes the following three main sub-components : (A) support to the Department of
Telecommunications (DoT) to strengthen its policy making capacity; (B) strengthen and modernize the
Wireless Planning and Co-ordinations Wing's (WPC) radio frequency management including financing of
software and hardware equipment and capacity building; and (C) strengthen the Telecommunications
Engineering Center's (TEC) capacity to review implications of telecommunications developments on
telecommunications sector policy in India.
A. Assistance to DoT
This sub-component will help to strengthen DoT's govermment functions by financing provision of
equipment, consultants' services and training.
B. Assistance to WPC
This sub-component will fund technical assistance to WPC in the field of spectrum management to enable
WPC to meet the increased demand for spectrum use in India. Financing will be provided for WPC to
procure state of the art equipment for efficient spectrum management and monitoring equipment to enhance
productive use of the spectrum as well as enhancing revenues. This sub-component will initiate a long term
program to establish and codify the process and methodology for regulatory policy development, technical
and allocation planning, and co-ordination and maintenance practices. Funds will be provided for technical
training of staff assigned to the operation and maintenance of the advanced tools to be funded by the
project, as well as for the training of new front line supervisors who will be key to the productive use of
these tools. Also included, will be specialized training courses and seminars for WPC's senior management
focusing on the importance of effecting a cultural change within WPC so that the leadership role, which the
agency must play for the benefit of the entire radio communications industry, is fulfilled.
Specifically, the proposed project will provide the following:
1. Automated Spectrum Management System (ASMS) Overview: The Automated Spectrum
Management System (ASMS) will have a number of work-stations with suitable servers connected in
LAN/WAN networks. Suitable networking will be effected to provide data exchange between WPC offices
and Monitoring Organization Headquarters as well as with Regional Headquarters offices of Monitoring
Organization in Chennai, Calcutta, Delhi and Mumbai. The software will cater for both technical as well
as operational and administrative functions of WPC Wing.
-27-



2. WPC Computer System and LAN/ WAN Configuration
The WPC Control Center LAN will include dual servers with a large disk capacity to hold the operational
database, digitized topographic model (DTM) database, spectrum management and monitoring application
programs and office automation programs. The server configuration will include features to safeguard the
database from loss and convenient data backup facilities. Features will also include tools for the System
Manager and Database Administrator to effectively and efficiently manage and maintain the WPC Control
Center and the associated network. The computer system will provide a Windows-based environment for
the spectrum management, spectrum monitoring and office automation applications programs. For
customization of the Spectrum Management and Spectrum Monitoring systems application software, the
relational database management system (RDBMS) will include:-
* Administrative, technical and financial operational data for each license, permit or authorization.
*  Reference data such as the National frequency Allocation Table and list of approved radio equipment
and antenna system.
*   Geographic information system (GIS) data consisting of the digitized topographic model (DTM) data
available for India and the co-ordination zones in the neighboring countries.
The data communications circuits for the WAN data network will be arranged by the WPC. The Terms of
Reference for the Project Management and Engineering consultant includes assistance to the WPC for
design, procurement and implementation of the overall data communications network. The scope of the
supply for the Automated Spectrum Management System contract includes supply of equipment for the
links from the fixed monitoring stations to the PSTN and provision of interfaces with the GSM cellular
networks for the fixed, mobile and transportable system. It is desirable for the communication network to
utilize local facilities and supply as much as possible for on going maintenance and support services.
3. Spectrum Management System
The spectrum management system will consist of an integrated suite of application software programs that
will assist and, to a certain degree, automate the spectrum management process for the WPC. It is
important to understand that the spectrum management system is a tool with many helpful, labor-saving
features to assist the WPC staff to utilize their experience to make decisions, but it is not a system that
functions automatically without people being involved. The spectrum management system will interact
with the data in the database and is heavily dependent on the data being complete and correct for the
spectrum management application software to produce reliable results.
The spectrum management system requirements comprise computer hardware, software and networking
facilities as follows:
- Computer Hardware, Central (Server) facilities and peripherals
- 50 Workstations in WPC, 60 Workstations in Monitoring Headquarters/Stations etc. (largely
indigenous)
- Creation of Database and its management
- Software for RF Spectrum Management process system application and data transfer software, etc.
- Digital terrain map
- LAN, WAN
4. Monitoring and Directions Finding System
- 28 -



The Automated Spectrum Monitoring facility will consist of computer controlled fixed monitoring (10 kHz
to 3 GHz) including direction finding , transportable/mobile units covering the frequency bands 20 MHz to
3 GHz, microwave mobile monitoring units covering the frequency band of about 1 GHz to about 40 GHz,
satellite monitoring facility for the monitoring of transmissions from Geo-stationery, LEOs, and MEOs in
the frequency bands applicable to space radio communication services, and also radio noise survey units
for specialized radio-noise related measurements. Mobile units will comprise of computer controlled
equipment mounted in racks which will be installed in the specially designed vans. Computer-controlled
monitoring/measurements will help reduce human error, speed up the monitoring tasks in general and also
enable quick data exchange with the specialized databases. Monitoring system requirements are listed in
Table 1 below:
Table 1: Monitoring System Requirements
i. Fixed-cum-mobile monitoring units for monitoring stations, consisting of wide band signal receiver,
direction finder for VHF/UHF band, vector analyzer, decoding system and related antennas for
monitoring as well DF purposes. 25 units
ii. HF Interferometer (Direction finder and single site locator), consisting of HF Receiver, Specialized
Antenna System and related switching unit, real time programmable decoder, for international
monitoring stations. 2 Units
iii. Mobile microwave monitoring units up to 40 GHz consisting of spectrum analyzer, down-converter &
LNAs digital signal processing unit, base band analyzer, digital receiver, code analyzer,
modulation/vector analyzer, antenna controller, antenna switches and antenna system up to 40 GHz,
printer/plotter, etc. 16 Units
iv. Satellite monitoring capability for LEO and GSO up to Ka band (It includes suitable antenna with feed,
Low Noise Amplifiers, antenna controller, down converter, digital receiver, code analyzer, spectrum
analyzer, base band demodulator, signal generator, calibrating equipments, printer/plotter, etc.
-29 -



The functions of each type of radio spectrum monitoring facility are shown in Table 2 below:
Table 2: Functions of Radio Spectrum Monitoring Facilities
TYPE OF MONITORING FACILITY               NATURE OF FUNCTIONS
1. Fixed-cum-Mobile Monitoring            Measurements of (i) Frequency, (ii) Field Strengtlh,
up to 3 GHz)                           (iii) Bandwidth, (iv) Modulation identification,
(v) Spectrum occupancy/vacancy,
(vi) Location/Direction of transmitting source.
2. Direction Finding                      (i) Emission identification, (ii) Location/Direction of
(HF bands)                             transmitting source.
3. Microwave Mobile Monitoring            Measurement of (i) power flux density, (ii)
up to 40 GHz)                          bandwidth, (iii) modulation identification, (iv)
Spectrum occupancy/vacancy. Another major
application being resolution of complex interference
problems.
4. Satellite Monitoring up to Ka-band)    Checking presence of a space station to verify the
compliance with international commitments,
measurement of (i) power flux density, (ii)
bandwidth,
(iii) modulation identification.
5.    Training
The WPC staff will be provided with a comprehensive program of training to be able to efficiently and
effectively utilize the new tools for spectrum management and monitoring and also to operate and maintain
the new system. The program will consist of formal training courses in the factory and on-site including
hands-on experience on:
(a)    what the new system wi1l do and how to make it do it (basically the same as learning how to use a
new computer program;
(b)    how to use the new system to do the tasks that they are responsible to perform for spectrum
management and monitoring   (learning to do the job a new way); and
(c)    where to go or who to ask for help when the system doesn't do what they expect or want it to do.
There will also be a program for management staff and senior specialists including participation with
the Project Management and Engineering consultant to:
(a)    participate in the Design Review Meeting:
(b)    witness factory acceptance tests;
-30 -



(c)    participate in the installation and checkout of the stations and the checkout of the stations and the
integrated system; and
(d)    conduct site acceptance tests.
In addition, there will be a program of capacity building activities involving appropriate study visits,
training modules and specialists/ experts.
6. Technical Assistance. Technical Assistance (TA) will be provided to WPC in the following areas:
* WPC will need project management consultancy assistance for the following reasons: firstly, this is
a first project of its kind (integrating spectrum monitoring and management; and integrating supply
with installation and commissioning) that WPC would be handling. Second, the size of the project
is very large compared to what WPC has handled in the past. Third, the project is highly critical
for India, and WPC cannot afford to take any risks that could lead to delays and/or sub-optimal
project implementation. Fourth, the two-stage procurement process to be adopted for realizing the
contracting is a complex process. Lastly, although WPC will set up a project unit, WPC's
personnel would continue to perform their day to day activities and a dedicated team of industry
experts, working uniquely on the project, will ensure the success of the project. Therefore, the
project provides for a Project Management Consultant to assist in the procurement process
including contract selection and implementation of ASMS. Terms of Reference for this
consultancy were finalized during Appraisal, and work is underway.
*   Assistance to WPC to strengthen its institutional capabilities by: (i) establishing the process,
procedures and methodology for the formulation of technical and allocation policies and carrying
out a review of the provisions for the formulation of technical and administrative regulations; and
(ii) preparing and implementing programs to improve WPC's technical, managerial and
commercial skills and establishing industry consultative groups which will enable WPC to
"educate" the industry participants regarding spectrum use and compliance requirements.
C. Technical Assistance to TEC
This sub-component, which will fund staff training under the project, would include: (i) a technical
cooperation arrangement, involving staff exchanges with relevant foreign regulatory agencies, information
sharing and formal and informal contacts, and advice; (ii) seminars and courses offered on a periodic basis
by private firms, universities and associations, and dealing with specialized regulatory issues and general
regulatory methods; (iii) a tour of regulatory agencies in other countries and (iv) in-house training with
classroom facilities in India.
- 31 -



Project Component 2 - US$5.51 million
(2)    TRAI/TDSAT Component
TRAI. This element includes technical assistance to strengthen the Telecom Regulatory Authority of
India's (TRAI) ability to regulate the sector. It will include the consultative studies and training. The
consultative studies will cover priority regulatory issues in regulatory infrastructure, sector liberalization,
licensing and interconnection issues, development network and services, quality of service and customer
satisfaction, and fostering fair competition. The following consultative studies are currently underway or
planned:
*   Detailed Study of Arrangements and Charges for Interconnection links/Access and transport in a
Multi-operator environment Best international practice from the techno-economic angle.
*   Regulatory Issues relating to introduction of Internet telephony.
*   Licensing/Spectrum management issues relating to third generation mobile telephone services such
as UMTS/IMT-2000.
*   Issues relating to Equal Ease of Access (EEA) in the context of NLD opening: Technical
considerations relating to allotment of Carrier Access Codes and Pre-selection.
*   Study of universal service funding methodology: Best International Practice for modeling of costs
of universal service, and its levy from various operators.
*   Regulatory issues relating to access service provision by Cable TV Operators as per NTP-99.
*   Regulatory issues relating to introduction of Intelligent Network services based on IN platform.
*   Detailed study of techno-economic issues relating to number portability in a multi-operator
environment.
*   Studies on other regulatory issues to be identified during project implementation.
TDSAT. This element will support implementing a program of technical assistance for strengthening the
institutional capabilities of TDSAT in the areas of adjudication and dispute resolution.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Local  L    Forignw
Pr ,Iect ost By Compoeent       .       8 . .........................xU   m  US $milion  .. US $rniflion
DoT Component                                              8.40        51.84        60.24
TRAI Component                                            0.46          4.61         5.07
Total Baseline Cost                                       8.86         56.45        65.31
Physical Contingencies                                   0.38          2.93         3.31
Price Contingencies                                      0.76          2.00         2.76
Total Project Costs             10.00         61.38        71.38
Front-end fee                    0.62          0.62
Total Financing Required              10.00        62.00         72.00
Local       Forign         Total
:Project CostBy Category                US $milion   US $mUikni   US $rnilrion
Goods                                                       8.44         54.23         62.67
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                    1.23          4.65          5.88
Training                                                    0.33          2.50          2.83
Total Project Costs    10.00          61.38        71.38
Front-end fee                    0.62         0.62
Total Financing Required     10.00         62.00         72.00
- 33 -



Annex 4
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
The main activity of the project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of the government agencies
responsible for formulating policies in the telecommunications sector and for regulating
telecommunications operations. This will be done by supporting these agencies in improving their
institutional capacity, systems and procedures, developing staff skills, assisting in the development of
consultation papers, and implementing modem radio frequency spectrum management and monitoring and
information systems. Experiences from other countries have shown that an effective, transparent, and
accountable governance of the sector is critical in attracting investment in telecommunications
infrastructure. India's experience from the first round of bidding and private operations has demonstrated
that ambiguous licensing terms, changing "rules of the game," and an unclear division of responsibilities in
sector regulation have critically impeded private investment in the sector.
The project supports elements of the Government's overall telecommunications sector reform program. It is
difficult to provide a quantitative estimate of the response of the private investors to the regulatory and
policy environment. Furthermore, the benefits of improved telecommunications services are not exclusively
private. Network externalities and the use of information and communications technologies in education,
health, and other social services may imply social benefits which need to be taken into account in assessing
the economic impact of telecommunications investment. Some of the benefits associated with the major
project components would include, inter alia, the following:
(a) Upgrading WPC's radio frequency management through implementation of a modern spectrum
management and monitoring system and restructuring of WPC's organizational structure and
procedures would bring various benefits. First, it would free up additional frequencies available to
private operators. Second, it would minimize radio interference and thus improve the quality of
service. Third, it would accelerate the process of obtaining new frequency licenses. Fourth, this would
reduce the investment risk of private operators--mainly in wireless services. Most importantly, it
would enable WPC to lead the industry towards more productive spectrum use and adoption of uniform
technical standards and benefit telecommunications customers.
(b) Strengthening TEC's institutional capacity. By upgrading staff skills, and restructuring its
organizational structure and procedures, TEC would be in a better position to support the govermment
to design policies and set standards which ensure effective implementation of new technology and that
new services are introduced in a timely and consumer-friendly manner.
(c) Strengthening TRAI's regulatory capacity will help establish a more credible and transparent
regulatory framework. The existence of an independent regulator within a stable regulatory framework
is likely to encourage higher levels of investment and more rapid development of services which are
being opened to competition (e.g., basic, cellular, value-added services).
-34 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(US$ Million)
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
2001     2002      2003     2004             TOTAL
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
- Investment Costs             7.9     24.6      24.9      14.6               72.0
Total Project Costs            7.9     24.6      24.9      14.6              .72.0
Total Financing Required       7.9     24.6      24.9      14,6               72.0
Financing
- IBRD Loan                    6.9     21.2      21.4      12.5               62.0
- Government                   1.0      3.4       3.5      2.1                10.0
Total Project Financing        7.9      24.6     24.9      14.6               72.0
Assumptions:
Physical contingencies: 5% for equipment and 5% for consultancy services and professional development components.
Price contingencies are based on estimates provided in January 5, 2000 memo.
The project supports elements of the Government's overall sector reform program and it is difficult to identify the
fiscal impact resulting from the project.
- 35 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement
1      The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in
Table A.
Procurement methods (Table A)
2. Procurement capacity of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and Project Management Unit (PMU)
The procurement capacity of the PCU and PMU has been assessed and it is agreed that consultants will be
hired to assist them in drafting bidding documents and evaluating bids as stated in para 3.1 below.
3. Procurement Planning
Prior to issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in
accordance with procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1. A procurement plan compiled by the Borrower was reviewed and agreed at appraisal.
3.1 Advanced Procurement
In order to accelerate project implementation and to minimize payments of commitment charges,
advanced procurement under Paragraph 1.9 of the Guidelines will be adopted for hiring of consultants, following
fixed budget selection, (a) for the preparation of bidding documents for the automated spectrum management
system, (ASMS) that need to be completed by May 31, 2000 and (b) for undertaking priority studies to meet
TRAI's commitment. Retroactive financing up to a maximum of 10% of the loan will be allowed for the above two
items.
3.2 Goods and Equipment ($ 62.6M)
3.2.1   The project supports the procurement of the automated spectrum management equipment under the WPC
component.
3.2.2. International Competitive Bidding (ICB): ($ 62.OM)
Contracts for the purchases of Goods and Equipment valued at $200,000 or more would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines,
January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Automated Spectrum
Management System ($62.OM) would be procured through ICB. Domestic preference in accordance with
Appendix 2 of Bank's Procurement Guidelines will be applicable to goods manufactured in India.
3.2.3   National Competitive Bidding Provisions
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) referred to in Part C-I of Section I, Schedule 1, of the Project Agreement, all NCB
contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). In this regard, all NCB
- 36 -



contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit/Loan shall follow the following procedures:
*   Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force
(and as amended from time) shall be used for bidding;
*   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper,
at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
*   No special preference would be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
*   Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of
price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder;
*   Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond control of the Borrower, extension
of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association (a)
for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent
requests for extension irrespective of the period.
*   Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association.
The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or " bracket " of prices shall not
be used.
*   Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D would not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts would be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping
procedures.
3.2.4 Direct Contracting: ($0.6M)
CD ROMs, propriety software, books, audio and video cassettes aggregating to US$0.6M may be procured
on direct contracting procedures in accordance with Paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.3    Bidding Documents: Standard Bidding Documents as compiled by the Government of India Task Force
and agreed with the Bank will be used for all ICB contracts. Contracts for supply goods and equipment will be the
responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) duly assisted by the consultant employed by WPC.
4. Technical Assistance. Studies and Training ($8.7M)
4.1.1.  Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services ($5.9M) would be contracted following the QCBS, CQ
and fixed budget procedures (Table B) in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The estimated
number of contracts would be 21, ranging from US$100,000 to US$1,000,000, and 5 contracts between US$50,000
to US$100,000.
4.1.2   Training for DoT. WPC and TEC ($1 .5M): Training of staff at these implementing agencies will be at
selected institutions and universities. The method of procurement shall be based on consultants qualification and
procured directly as it does not lend to competitive bidding. This training program will be subject to clearance
with the Bank on course content, number and details of personnel to be deputed and course fee. The Bank will
review annually, beginning in November 2000, the training program containing names of candidates, costs
estimates, courses, period of training and institutions. Domestic study tours would be arranged by the concerned
implementing agencies.
4.1.3   Training for TRAI and TDSAT ($1.3M): Training of staff at TRAI and TDSAT will be at selected
institutions and universities. The method of procurement shall be based on consultants qualifications/sole source
contracting on basis of training plan and cost estimates satisfactory to the Bank. Domestic study tours would be
arranged by TRAI and TDSAT.
5.     Prior review thresholds are given in Table B.
- 37 -



5.1 Prior Review
5.1.1 Goods and Eguipment
All ICB packages irrespective of value would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
5.1.2 Technical Assistance. Studies and Trainine
The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank:
*   Terms of Reference for all consultancies;
*   Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than $100,000;
*   Contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost more than $50,000;
* All single source selection of consulting finms/organizations;
*   Amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 or
above;
*   Assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; and
* Amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 or above.
5.2 Post Review
5.2.1 Goods and Eauigments
The contracts below the prior review threshold for Goods and equipment shall be subject to post review as
per procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Bank Guidelines.
5.2.2 Technical Assistance. Studies and Trainin2
Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 and contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 shall be subject to post review provided that the
TORs have been cleared with the Bank.
-38 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           tCB           NCB             er           N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                           62.05          0.00          0.60           0.00          62.65
(53.73)        (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)         (54.23)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          5.39           0.50          5.89
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4.65)        (0.00)        (4.65)
4. Training                        0.00           0.00          2.84           0.00          2.84
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.50)        (0.00)        (2.50)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00          0.62           0.00          0.62
______________ (0.00)    (0.00)         (0.62)        (0.00)         (0.62)
Total                           62.05          0.00          9.45           0.50          72.00
(53.73)        (0.00)        (8.27)        (0.00)         (62.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, and technical assistance services.
Miscellaneous items includes training and visits.
- 39 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
(See next page.)
6. Procurement Information
Procurement Information will be collected and recorded as follows:
*   Prompt reporting of contract award information by Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of DoT.
* Comprehensive semi-annual reports by PCU:
* revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
* revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion
time for individual contracts; and
*   compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement.
Completion report by the borrower within three months of the credit closing date.
-40 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contiabt VOlWe                                -Cont-Ect. Subject to
j      . Threshold                   --              :urement  Prior Revew
Expenditure Category  _       _       _
1. Works                         NA                       NA                       NA
2. Goods                  $200,000 and above              ICB               Prior review (62.0)
Below $200,000         Direct Contracting        Post review (0.6)
3. Services                Consulting Firms:        QCBS + short list     Prior review (4.4) as per
$200,000 and above                            paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the third subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the
Consultants Guidelines.
Issue advertisement in
UNDP to get expressions of
interest; technical
evaluation receives Bank's
no-objection before opening
financial proposals.
Between $100,000 and      QCBS + short list     Prior review (1.0) as per
$200,000                                  paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the second subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix 1 to Consultant
Guidelines. Technical
evaluation to be reviewed
by Bank before opening
financial proposals.
Individual Consultants   Based on consultants    Prior review (0.5) The
Between $50,000 and         qualifications     qualifications, experience,
$100,000                                     TOR and terms of
employment of the
consultants shall be
reviewed.
4. Training & Study       Training/Study tours    Consultants qualifications  Prior Review (2.8)
Tours                   ____0_62_
5. Front-end Fee                                                                  (0.62)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   95%
-41 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be made for goods and services that are eligible for IBRD financing.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Categy           Amount in US$million         Financing Perntage
Goods                                      50.00           100% of foreign of expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants' services                       4.50                         100%
Training and Study Tours                    2.50                         100%
Unallocated                                 4.38
Total Project Costs                        61.38          _
Front-end fee         0.62            Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Agreement
Total                                      62.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
When the existing disbursement procedures are used, disbursements would be made against
Withdrawal Applications for: (a) direct payments; (b) reimbursement of expenditures with full
documentation; and (c) reimbursement of expenditures against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
IDA would disburse against SOEs for the following expenditures: (a) Contracts of less than
US$200,000 equivalent for goods; (b) Contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for consulting
firms. (c) Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants and all training and
study tours.
- 43 -



Special account:
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI). The Special Account would be
operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies:
(a) When existing disbursement procedures are used, the authorized allocation of the Special
Account would be US$3.0 million. The Special Account would be replenished monthly or when 20
percent of the advance to the Special Account has been utilized, whichever occurs first.
(b) When disbursements are based on PMRs, the authorized allocation of the Special Account
would be US$6.0 million. This represents 6 months of peak expenditure. The Special Account
would be replenished quarterly and be based on the next 6 months funds forecast.
The disbursement would initially be made according to the traditional method (reimbursement with
full documentation and against statements of expenditure. The project will produce the full set of PMRs
from the beginning and there will be a determination from moving to PMR-based disbursement within 12
months of effectiveness.
-44 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Prolect $anneule                    -I d                                       AcWal
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      9                            24
First Bank mission (identification)             04/20/98                     04/20/98
Appraisal mission departure                     09/15/98                     03/15/99
Negotiations                                    11/01/98                     04/24/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/08/98
Prepared by:
Department of Telecommunications and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
Preparation assistance:
Retroactive Financing
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speqiality
Rajesh Pradhan                    Task Team Leader and Senior Financial Analyst
Peter Smith                       Principal Telecommunications Policy Specialist
A. Shanmugarajah                  Principal Telecommunications Engineer
Bjom Wellenius                    Telecommunications Advisor
Mohammad Mustafa                  Principal Financial Analyst
Clive Harris                      Senior Economist
Sanjay Vani                       Senior Financial Management Specialist
Natarajan Raman                   Principal Procurement Specialist
Kashmira Daruwalla                Procurement Analyst
Catherine Doody                   Program Assistant
-45-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Borrower is updating the Project Implementation Plan.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Identification Mission Back-to-Office Report, Aide Memoire and TORs, December 19, 1997
*   Preparation Mission Back-to-Office Report, TORs and Aide Memoire, May 12, 1998
*   India 1998 Macro Economic Update: Reformingfor Growth and Poverty Reduction, June 30, 1998
*   Pre-appraisal mission Back-to-Office Report, Aide Memoire, October 28, 1998
* Suggestions on GoT's Draft Discussion Paper for New Telecom Policy 1999, electronic mail Feb. 5,
1999
* Appraisal mission Back-to-Office Report, Aide Memoire, April 8, 1999
C. Other
3   TRAI, Telecom Pricing Consultation Paper on Concepts, Principles, and Methodologies, November
4, 1997.
*   TRAI, The Telecommunications Tariff Order 1999, March 9, 1999.
*   The Industrial Credit and Investnent Corporation of India, Draft Report to the DoT on State Cellular
Projects -Assessment of Viability, April 1998
* Phillips Tarifica, The Impact of Changing International Telecommunications Environment for India,
Draft Final Report, March 1998
*   GOI, National Task Force on Information Technology and Software Development, Information
Technology Action Plan,July 4, 1998
3 TRAI, Consultation Paper on Regulations for Meeting the Funding Requirements of the Telecom
Regulatory Authority of India, June 15, 1998
* COAI, Towards a Resolution of Cellular Telecom Issues, November 6, 1998
3 Group on Telecommunications, Draft Discussion Paper for New Telecom Policy 1999, February
1999.
3   New Telecom Policy 1999, March 26, 1999.
*   TRAI (Amendment) Act, 2000.
*Including electronic files
-46 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P045051       1999 India                      2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                                0.00    191.00       000      184.47       5 05       0.00
P049301       1997 India                      A P. EMERG. CYCLONE                               50.00     100.00       000       96.51      7271        000
P010407       1993 India                      ADP-RAJASTHAN                                      0.00     106.00       000       1440       1735        000
P010503       1995 India                      AGRICHUMANRESDEVT                                   0.00     5950        0.00      22.43      2212        000
P010489       1995 India                      AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                               0.00     133.00       000       47.72      14.90       000
P049385       1998 India                      AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                              301.30    241.90       0 00     409.04      40.41       0.00
P010449       1994 India                      AP FORESTRY                                        0.00      7740        0.00       9.02       8.25       0.00
P035158       1997 India                      AP IRRIGATION III                                 175.00    150.00       0 00     239.84      91.40       0.00
P049537       1999 India                      AP POWERAPLI                                      210.00      0.00       000      154.90      21.90       0.00
P010522       1995 India                      ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                   0.00    126 00       0 00      89.55      49.99        00
P010408       1993 India                      BIHAR PLATEAU                                       0.00    117.00       000       30.28      3688        0.00
P010455       1994 India                      BLINDNESS CONTROL                                   0.00    117.80       0.00      7152       44.47       0.00
P010480       1996 India                      BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                               167.00     25.00       0.00     104.58      99.00       0.00
P043310       1999 India                      COAL ENV & SOCIAL MITIGATION                       0.00      93.00       000       40.19      2418        0.00
P009979       1998 India                      COAL SECTOR REHAB                                530.00       2.00      15.00     309.34      83.92      8392
P009870       1994 India                      CONTAINERTRANSPORT                                94.00       000        0.00      92.07      6207       3786
P010464       1995 India                      DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                 0.00    260.30       0 00     103 00      53.06       0 00
P035821       1999 India                      DPEP 11                                             0 00    425.20       0 00     226 83       -2.80      0.00
P038021       1998 India                      DPEP III (BIHAR)                                    0.00     152.00      0.00     129.52      47 49       0 00
P036062        1997 India                     ECODEVELOPMENT                                      O.O      2800        0 00      2004        8 03       0.00
P043728       1997 India                      ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                               0.00      5000        0 00      41.13      19.99       0 00
P010563       1995 India                      FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)                 700.00      0.00     301 30      97.03       0.00       0.00
P010448       1994 India                      FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                                0.00     47.00       0.00      16.82      35.24      11.27
P035160       1998 India                      HARYANA POWER APL-I                               60.00       0.00       000       28.09      16.06       0.00
P010485       1996 India                      HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                   0.00    142.00       000       79.58      65.59       0.00
P009977       1993 India                      ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                                000     194.00       0.00      99.50     100.83      96.84
P039935       1996 India                      ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                               200.00      5.00       0.00     178.79     150.70       0.00
P010463       1995 India                      INDUS POLLUTION PREV                              143.00     25.00        1.64    141.63     11780        1.96
P010418        1993 India                     KARNATAKAWS & ENV/S                                 0.00     92.00       0.00       1.57       217        0.00
P049477       1998 India                      KERALA FORESTRY                                     0.00     39.00       0.00      30.24       -0 47      0.00
P010461       1995 India                      MADRAS WAT SUP II                                275.80       000      189.30      3671      20173        191
P050651       1999 India                      MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                 0.00    13400        0.00     12849      130.89       000
P010511       1997 India                      MALARIACONTROL                                      0.00    164.80       000      13942       51.64       000
P009946        1992 India                     NAT HIGHWAYS II                                   153.00    153.00       000       8738       9924        6.58
P009869       1989 India                      NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                               485.00      0 00       0 00      83 89      83.89      -6.65
P010561       1998 India                      NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                                  96.80    100.00        0.00    187.19      45.37       0.00
P009982       1990 India                      NORREGTRANSM                                      485.00      0.00      35.00     106.25     141.25       0.00
P010496       1998 India                      ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                   0.00     7640        000       72.28      12.01       0.00
P035170       1996 India                      ORISSA POWER SECTOR                               350.00      0.00       000      271.72     129.22       0.00
P010529       1996 India                      ORISSAWRCP                                          0.00    290.90       0.00     131.41      2117        0.00
P010416       1993 India                      PGC POWER SYSTEM                                  350.00      0.00      75.00      37.46     111 07       0 00
P010457       1994 India                      POPULATION IX                                       0.00     8860        0.00      4282       25.41       0.00
P009963       1992 India                      POPULATION VIII                                     0 00     79.00       0 00      45.14      45.87       000
P045050       1999 India                      RAJASTHAN DPEP                                      0.00     8570        000       81.27       4.69       000
-47 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P010410       1993 India                     RENEWABLE RESOURCES                               75.00    115.00       0.00      64.67      94.26       0.00
P010531       1997 India                     REPRODUCTVE HEALTHI                                0.00    248.30       000      192.18      74.52      29.31
P009959       1993 India                     RUBBER                                             0.00     92.00      3661       13.79      5070       -2.71
P044449       1997 India                      RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                         0.00     1950        000       1651       10.24       0.00
P009921       1992 India                     SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                               0.00     85.00      50.02      15.05      62.95      14.34
P035825       1996 India                     STATE HEALTH SYS 11                                0.00    350.00       0.00     204.33     127.96       0.00
P009995       1997 India                     STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                             350.00      0.00       0.00     287.13      57.13       0.00
P045600       1997 India                     TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                              51.50      0.00       0.00      21.64      13.14      14.14
P010476       1995 India                     TAMIL NADU WRCP                                    0.00    282.90       0.00     153.65      99.47       0.00
P050637       1999 India                     TN URBAN DEVII                                   105.00      0.00       0.00      90.50       8.90       0.00
P010473       1997 India                     TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                               0.00    142.40       0.00     127.49      75,26       0.00
P050638       1998 India                      UP BASIC ED If                                    0.00     59.40       0.00      14.91       1.87       0.00
P009955       1993 India                     UP BASIC EDUCATION                                 0.00    165.00       0.00       9 83      -2.54       0.00
P035824       1998 India                      UP DIVAGRC SUPPORT                               79.90     5000        0.00     119.07      36,09       0.00
P050667       2000 India                     UP DPEP III                                        0.00    182.40       000      178.31       0,00       0.00
P035169       1998 India                      UP FORESTRY                                       0.00     52.94       0 00      38.51       6.81       0.00
P010484       1996 India                      UP RURAL WATER                                   59.60      000        000       44.80      19.10       0.00
P050646       1999 India                     UP SODIC LANDS11                                   0.00    194.10       000      18304       19.60       0.00
P009961       1993 India                     UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                               0.00     54.70       0 00       2 42       1.26       0.00
P009964       1994 India                     WATER RES CONSOLID H                               0.00    258.00       0.00     113.96      80.62       0.00
P035827       1998 India                     WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                               0.00    300.00       0 00     289.47       3.02       0.00
P041264       1999 India                     WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                              85.00     50.00       000      124.53      -0.07       0.00
Total:    5631.90     6843.14      703.87     6830.52   3182.90    288.17
-48 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1989               AEC                           7.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                  0.00   10.55    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.55    0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic              0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                  0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92            CESC                         22.50    0.00    0.00   50.25   22.50    0.00    0.00   50.25
1993/95/97         Centurion Bank                10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule                     12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38   12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38
1994               DLF Cement                    7.70    4.94    0.00    9.38    7.70    4.94    0.00    9.38
1997               Duncan Hospital               7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                          0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                       0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                      13.64    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                    7.50    5.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    4.39    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                         0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel                     0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33      0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/98            Global Trust                  5.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    7.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.78    0.00    0.00
1994               HDFC                          0.00    1.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.19    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HOEL                          0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990               Hindustan                     1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987              LAF                           0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00
1998               ICICI-IFGL                    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00
1990/94           ICICI-SPIC Fine                0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
1990/95/00         IDFC                          0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998               IL & FS                       0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94/98      IL&FS Venture                 0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1992/95           ITW Signode                    0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96    India Direct Fnd             0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.97    0.00    0.00
1996               India Equipment               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Lease                   0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1984/90/94         Indo Ramna                    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96         Indus II                      0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Indus VC Mgt Co               0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund                0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1992               Ispat Industries              0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97         JSB India                     0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00
1989/95            M&M                           0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93         MUSCO                         0.00    0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.22    0.00    0.00
1964/75/79/90      Moser Baer                   16.45    8.00    0.00    0.00    8.84    8.00    0.00    0.00
NICCO-UCO                     5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99
1992/96/97
-49 -



Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               Owens Corning                  25.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1981               Pennar Steel                    0.0G    0.07    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.07      0.00    0.00
1995               Prism Cement                   13.13    5.02    0.00     9.00    13.13    5.02     0.00    9.00
1995198            RCHL                            0.00    2.95    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.95      0.00    0.00
1995               Rain Calcining                 19.25    5.46    0.00     0.00   19.25     5.46     0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL                            0.00    0.07    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.07      0.00    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings                    0.94    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.94    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997                SREI                          15.00    3.00    0.00    ().00   15.00    3.00      0.00    0.00
1995               Sara Fund                       0.00    6.05     0.00    0.00    0.00    4.33      0.00    0.00
2000                Sundaram Finance               0.00    2.29     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.14     0.00    0.00
1998               TCW/ICICI                       0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00      0.00    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II                 0.00    1.23    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.23     0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/92/94   TISCO                           0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric                   0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1988/90/92         Tata Telecom                    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01      0.00    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare                0.00    3.99    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.99      0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Industries                0.00    0.52     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52      0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                            0.00    0.63     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63      0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland                10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                           0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                             0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.63     0.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India                0.00    0.02    0.0()    0.00     (.00    0.02     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       221.15   146.35    5.00    88.01  200.54  131.12     5.00   88.01
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               APCL                           7100.00      0.00   1900.00       0.00
1999               Carraro                       10000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Chinai Chemicals                1000.00     0.00       0.00      0.00
1999               Sarshatali Coal               30000.00      0.00   5000.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     48100.00      0.00   6900.00      0.00
-50 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                South      Low.
India      Asia  income         Development diamond
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                         979.7      1,305     3.536                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                        440       430        520
GNP (Atlas method., US$ billions)                       427.4       560      1,842
Averaqe annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%J                                            1.7        1.9        1.7
Labor force t%)                                           2.0        2.3        1.9     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaiable, 1992-98)                                    capita                         enrollment
Povertv (% of poPulation below nationat DovertY line)      35
Urban population (% of total population)                   28        28         30
Life expectancv at birth (years)                           63         62        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   70         75        68
Child molnutritito (% of children under 5)                 53        5S         36                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (51 of population)                    S1         77        73
Illiteracy (% of Population aqe 15)                       44        47         31
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-sae population)     100        100       107             India        Low-income group
Male                                                   109        t10        112
Fvnmale                                                 90         90        102
KrY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1g88       1997       1998        -  -- 
Economic ratios-
GP' (US$ billions)                            134.6    289.7       407,9     419.7
Gross domestic nvestmentGDP                    22.3      24 3       23,4      21.6
Exportsofnoodsand serviceslGOP                  6.2       6.3       11.1       11.3                      Trade
Grossdomesticsavings/GOP                       21.1      21.4       19,9       19.1
Gross national savinqsIGDP                     21,9      21.2       21.9      20,7
Current account balance/GDP                     -0.1     -2,4       -1.4       -1.0     Doestic
interest pavmentslGDP                            0.3      0.7        0,B   1     .     1 S                             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  12.2     20.9       23,1      23.4      Savings                        Ie n
Total debt servicelexports                      13,0     28.5       18.6      17.0
Present value of debVGDP                          ..       ..       18 7
Present value of debWexports                      ..       ..      130.3
Indebtedness
1978-8S  1988-98      1997       1998   198-02
(averaoe annual growtl)
GOP                                    50       5.5       4.6        6.3       6.2              India        Low-incomegroup
GNP per capita                         2 6      3.7       2,9        4.3       4.4
Exports of qoods and services          4.2     11.9       6.2        4,5       7 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997       1998      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     38.8     32.8       28.0       29.1     30
Industry                                       24.2      26.8       27.1      25.7      20
Manufacturinq                                 16.5     16.4       16.6       15.6      1 t
Services                                       37.0      40.4       44.9      45.2       n
Private consumption                            69.3      66,4       68.8      69.9    -10 t           94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                  9.6      12.3       11.3       11.0               -     GDI        ;  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                    7.4      9.3       14.5       14.0
1978-88  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                      2.8      3.1       -1.9        7.2    40
Industrv                                         5.9      6.4        5.9        3.9    30                   A
Manufacturing                                  6.1      6.9        4.0        3.6           I        f
Services                                        6.2       7.3        9.0        8.3    20
Private consumption                             5.1       5.6        1.6       10.3    10
General qovernment consumotion                   7.7      4.6       10.6        6.5     o
Gross domestic investment                       4.8       5.6       13.1      -0.1             93   94   95   96   97   9S
imports of Goods and services                    7.3      9.9       11.7       10.9                   Exports         t rmposts
Gross national product                          4.9       5.6        4.7        6.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 51 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          1-
Consumer prices                                 ..      9.3        7.0      7.0     a
Implicit GDP deflator                          2.5      8.1        6.4      9.4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..    23.6        22.7     22.1             93    94   95    96    97   98
Current budget balance                           ..     1.0       -0.2       0.0                  GDP deflator    !  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -10.0        -8.0      -9.3
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1978      1988      1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  13,970    35.013    34,298       50,0D
Tea                                            ..    421         505       482
Iron                                          ..    465         476       359      40,000
Manufactures                                   ..  10,727    27,348    27,530      30,000
Total imports (cif)                             ..  19,497    41,484   47544        20!|                              |
Food                                          ..    1,203      1,845     2,647                                   I
Fuel and energy                                ..   3,009      8,217     6,435     10.0
Capital goods                                  .. 4,803        9,796     9,497 
92  93  94  95  50  97   5
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..    111         100        96
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..      88        94        90                 e Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        .      125       106       106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$Smillions)                               1978      1988      1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                8,380   18,213    45,109    47,484
Imports of goods and services                9,900   26,843    59,297    58,565
Resource balance                            -1,520   -8,630   -14,188   -11,081
Net income                                    223   -1,056    -3,166    -3,544
Netcurrenttransfers                          1,150    2,654    11,830    10,280      1
Current account balance                       -147   -7,032    -5,524    -4,345
Financing items (net)                          147    5,600      9,120    8,721
Changes in net reserves                          0    1,432    -3,596    -4,376      2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       7,299    5,467    30,314    33,206
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               8.2     14.5       37.2      42.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        16,466   60,477    94,404    98,232
IBRD                                        646    5,590      8,138     7,993                   G: 4,329 A: 7,993
IDA                                        3,972   12,019    17,912    18,562
Totaldebtservice                             1,309    5,945    10,832    10,001 |
lBRD                                        126      777      1,411     1,627                /                    :18,562
IDA                                          38       179       381     1,372
Composition of net resource flows                                                     F: 39,448                      C 298
Official grants                             449      406        379       307
Official creditors                          603    2,645       -312     1,727     jD: 3,965
Private creditors                           -10    5,741      2,840    -1,433
Foreign direct investment                      0     287      3,557     2,462 |
Portfolio equity                              0         0      1,828      -61                               E 23,647
World Bank program
Commitments                                1,829    2,645      1,755    2,055      A - 13RD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               507    2,472       1,372    1,421      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         84       383      1,071    2,193      C - MF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                   423    2,088        302      -772
Interest payments                             80      572       721       806
Net transfers                               342    1,516       420    -1,578
Development Economics                                                                                                  3128100
- 52 -



- 53 -



