Report No. PID6541
Project Name                     India-Telecommunications Sector Reform (@)
TA Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Telecommunications
Project ID                       INPE55456
Borrower                         Government of India (GOI)
Implementing Agencies            Department of
Telecommunications(DoT),
Telecommunications
Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI),
Date initial PID Prepared        April 14, 1998
Date of this PID                 August 20, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 14, 1999
1.      Sector Background.   Access to telecommunications services in India is
limited to a small minority of the population. The overall level of telephone
density in India is very low at approximately 1.5 lines per hundred persons
compared for example with China (4.5), Indonesia (3.2), Thailand (7.0). Not
only is telephone density low, but there is a high level of unmet demand for
basic telephone service, estimated to exceed 40 million lines. For example,
the Rakesh Mohan Committee, in its India Infrastructure Report (1997) has
suggested an addition of 52 million lines by year 2006. This on-going low
level of teledensity reflects the failure of initiatives to attract the
required very large scale private investment to the sector as well as the
inability of existing, mainly public, operators to meet customers' demand.
2.     Many factors have contributed to the low take-up of private licenses for
cellular and basic services and more generally for the low level of private
investment in the sector. In general, the implementation of the basic and
cellular licensing policies failed to establish adequate incentives for high
levels of private investment to take place. In addition, there is a lack of
transparency and weak institutional base. Factors contributing to the poor
private sector response include:
- License bids were too high, thereby damaging the viability of network
investment projects.
- The price structure was distorted and does not adequately encourage
local network investment. India's current tariff regime cross-
subsidizes local calls by its domestic and international long
distance revenues. This has led to an inefficient allocation or
resources and has inhibited private investment in basic and cellular
services.
- Interconnection and revenue sharing arrangements between DoT and new
private licensees, together with other license terms such as the



duration of the licenses, were insufficiently attractive.
- Award of associated authorizations for new carriers, in particular
radio licenses, were often slow or problematic. Given the essential
need of all new basic and cellular operators to be licensed to use
radio channels, this has been an important impediment to successful
new private investment in the sector. In addition, WPC is unable to
keep pace with the best international standards and practice due to
non availability of databases, lack of automation, cumbersome
procedures, inadequate budget and lack of networking.
- Given the leadership role of DoT in the license award process for
both basic and cellular services, one of the underlying problems has
been the conflict of interest within DoT as both the licensing
authority and the main operator.
3.      Government Response.   The Government announced their new
telecommunications policy on March 26, 1999. The new policy recognizes that
provision of world class telecommunications and information infrastructure is
a key to rapid economic development for India, is critical for the Information
Technology industry, and has widespread ramifications for the entire economy.
It is a progressive policy and addresses several key outstanding issues that
have inhibited the flow of substantial private sector investment in the sector
which is required to improve sector performance. At the same time, TRAI
announced a new telephone tariffs decision effective on May 1, 1999. The new
tariffs will substantially re-structure telephone service prices over a three
year period which will significantly improve incentives for local network
investment. TRAI has also programmed an agenda of regulatory activity to
address several other important regulatory matters, such as: review of
domestic long distance competition, inter-connection arrangements, numbering
plan, quality of service, rules of business, customer satisfaction, carrier
performance monitoring, regulatory aspects of information infrastructure, and
others. In addition, to ensure transparent and accountable development of
policies in the sector, DoT's Government and service provision functions will
be separated with the implementation of the new telecom policy.
4.      Project Objective. The objective of this project is to promote private
investment and competition in the telecommunications sector in India through
strengthening elements of the policy and regulatory environment. This will
be achieved by assisting the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) in the
Ministry of Communications (MoC) to strengthen its government functions,
including modernization of radio frequency management and licensing systems,
and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to strengthen its
capacity to regulate the sector. Thus, the project will improve the
institutional capacity and capability of the Wireless Planning Coordination
Wing (WPC) to efficiently manage the radio frequency spectrum (which has
been identified as a significant problem by both private cellular and basic
service licensees), strengthen the capacity of the Telecommunications
Engineering Centre (TEC) to set technical standards in a multi-operator
environment, and continue the dialogue between the Bank, DoT, TRAI, operator
associations and key customers on regulatory practice and issues.
5.      Project Description.   The project consists of two components:
- 2 -



A.      DoT component including : (i) support to the Department of
Telecommunications (DoT) to strengthen its government functions,
institutional organization and capacity building; (ii) strengthen and
modernize the Wireless Planning and Co-ordinations Wing's (WPC) radio
frequency management including financing of software and hardware
equipment and capacity building; and (iii) strengthen the
Telecommunications Engineering Center's (TEC) capacity to review
implications of telecommunications developments on telecommunications
sector policy in India.
B.      TRAI component     technical assistance to strengthen TRAI's ability to
regulate the sector including review of key regulatory issues,
procurement of computer hardware and software, consultative studies and
training.
6.      Project Implementation.   The project will be implemented over four
years, January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2003. A Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in DoT will be responsible for the overall project coordination. The
responsibility for project implementation of the DoT sub-components, WPC and
TEC, will rest with the Project Implementation Units (PIU) set up in each
sub-component. The responsibility for project implementation at TRAI will
rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), which has already been
established.
7.      Project Sustainability.    The concept of sustainability as applied to
this project has different aspects. The largest project component is to
modernize the WPC management of the radio spectrum in India. This initiative
will be sustainable in as much as the new systems will generate increased
licensing fees and provide faster and improved service for licensees. A key
technical aspect, maintenance and up-grading of the database of radio
licenses, is addressed in the project. With respect to other DoT aspects of
the project, it will support moves in the Government of India to separate
Government from enterprise functions in the sector. This is international
best practice and raises no sustainability concerns. With respect to TRAI,
the project strengthens the regulatory capacity of TRAI. Given the important
progress TRAI has made in a short period of time to establish its credibility
through the adoption of excellent consultative mechanisms, as well as access
to funding from fees it can levy, no sustainability concerns arise. With
respect to rural connectivity, subject to the study which will be undertaken
under this project, additional Bank support may be considered if requested by
the Government.
8.      Project Benefits. The achievement of the project development objective
to promote private investment and competition in the Indian telecommunications
sector through strengthening elements of the policy and regulatory
environment, will, in conjunction with the Government's overall reform
initiatives, contribute to (a) substantially increased private investment in
the sector, (b) increased competition, and (c) more effective policy and
regulatory interventions in the public interest. These results will
accelerate the expansion of telephone networks to meet unmet demand and in
previously unserved areas, enhance market incentives for significantly
improved efficiency in the provision of telecommunications services, and
enhance both market and regulatory incentives for improved quality of service.
The ultimate beneficiaries of the overall reform program therefore will be
small, medium and large businesses, individual subscribers, and customers of
- 3 -



pay phone service. Among businesses, the importance of excellent
telecommunications for India's computer software business sector has already
been noted. The importance of telecommunications for rural connectivity is
also to be addressed by a study funded under the project.
9.      Project Risks.    The most important risk for achievement of the project
development objectives is that the Government fails to take measures to amend
license terms and conditions, in particular with respect to license fees,
interconnection, and revenue-sharing with DoT which bears directly on
incentives for large scale investment to occur. This risk is mitigated by the
following three factors:
a)      Substantial rate restructuring, as already proposed by TRAI, makes
revenue-sharing (in particular cross-subsidy from DoT to new entrants) much
less critical.
b)      The Government's medium term track record on sector reform has
been serious. Its motivation to implement timely solutions to the problems
linked to the license terms and conditions is credible, and supported for
example, by the rapid and very significant reform of the Internet service
provision in December 1998.
c)      TRAI has quickly established a good reputation for the transparent
and progressive way it addresses sector issues. We believe that TRAI is
likely to be given an important role in resolving licensing issues.
10.     Lessons Learned from Previous Operations. A 1995 review indicated that
the World Bank's experience in technical assistance projects in South Asia has
not been altogether positive. That review also recommended concrete measures
to improve the performance of sector reform projects: (i) projects should be
designed as part of a broader strategy for institutional development; (ii)
borrower commitment must be assessed carefully and tested through up-front
action; and (iii) monitoring indicators should be introduced. These measures
have been incorporated into the project design. In particular, suitable
performance benchmarks have been identified to monitor project progress and
facilitate early corrective actions, if necessary.
11.     Environmental Aspects.   There are no major environmental issues. This
project would assist India in reforming the telecommunications sector and
would not involve any construction or other activity affecting the
environment. Equipment will be housed in existing buildings and
communications will be radio based, therefore no digging will be needed.
Antennas will be installed, to the extent possible, on existing towers and/or
roof tops. The project will therefore have no adverse impact on the
environment and has been given a "C" rating.
12.     Poverty Category.   Not applicable.
13.     Program Objective Category.   Private Sector Development
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 4 -



Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Bigyan Pradhan
Task Manager
977 1 226792
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 20, 1999.
- 5 -



