                         Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                     Report No: 36296

            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (SCL-45550)

                            ON A

                            LOAN

               IN THE AMOUNT OF $62.0 MILLION

                             TO

                            INDIA

                            FOR A

TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                       September 29, 2006

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective May 2006)

                                Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rp)
                                        Rp 1.0 = US$ .023
                                       US$ 1.0 = Rp 44.0

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                    April 1   March 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

$      US dollar unless otherwise indicated
ASMS   Automated spectrum management system
DEA    Department of Economic Affairs
DoT    Department of Telecommunications
DWDM   Dense wavelength division multiplexing
FDI    Foreign direct investment
GoI    Government of India
NRSMMS National Radio Spectrum Management and Monitoring System
NSMS   National spectrum monitoring system
NTP    National Telecommunications Policy
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PMC    Project Management Consultants
SACFA  Standing Advisory Committee on Radio Frequency Allocations
SHF    Super high frequency
TRAI   Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
TDSAT  Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal
TEC    Telecommunication Engineering Center
WMO    Wireless Monitoring Organization
WMS    Wireless monitoring station
WPC    Wireless Planning and Coordination Wing




                               Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                             Country Director     Fayez S. Omar
                              Sector Manager      Philippe Dongier
                           Task Team Leader:      Peter L. Smith

                                             INDIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
 6. Sustainability                                                                13
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
 9. Partner Comments                                                              17
 10. Additional Information                                                       17
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
 Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (Unedited)                                 29
 Annex 9. Time line for WPC component                                             55

Project ID: P055456                                                  Project Name: IN-TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                                                     SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Peter L. Smith                                          TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: IN-TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-45550
                            REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Telecommunications (88%); Central government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/22/1998                                     Effective: 08/29/2000                08/29/2000
     Appraisal: 03/15/1999                                         MTR:                             12/06/2002
      Approval: 06/06/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 03/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/DOT
                      Other Partners:      -

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Fayez S. Omar                                  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                 Philippe Dongier                               Marilou Jane D. Uy
Team Leader at ICR:             Peter L. Smith                                 Rajesh B. Pradhan
ICR Primary Author:             Isabel Neto; Peter L. Smith


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1     The project's main objective was to strengthen elements of the policy and regulatory environment to
promote private investment and competition in India's telecommunications sector. The objectives and the
design of this project need to be assessed in the light of several factors outlined below.

3.1.2     The status and performance of the Telecom sector: When the project was initiated, the telecom
sector performance did not meet its potential. Although the sector had attained a growth rate (number of
lines) of around 20 percent per annum, it was nowhere near meeting the rising demand for services.
Whereas teledensity (telephone lines per 100 persons) in 1948 stood at 0.02 percent, by 1998 it had
increased to only 1.94 percent. There was a high level of unmet demand for basic telephone service and
inadequate availability of service in rural areas. The main operator, the Department of
Telecommunications (DOT) Service branch, which at the time still operated within the DOT ministry,
found it difficult to come close to world-class efficiency levels in an environment where it faced limited
competition and was constrained by inflexible civil service procedures. While the low level of teledensity
for both fixed and cellular indicated a need to attract large-scale private investment to meet the demand for
service provision and roll-out, the enabling environment for private sector investment was poor, failing to
provide sufficient incentives for high levels of investment. In parallel, increased demand for radio
frequencies following sector reform placed an unprecedented burden on the Wireless Planning and
Coordination Wing (WPC) and created a need to upgrade its capacity to manage and monitor radio
spectrum.

3.1.3     Consistency with Government's policy, initiatives, and needs at the time: The project design
and objectives were consistent with the Government of India's (GoI) policy for the telecommunications
sector. A reform process started with the issuance of the National Telecom Policy (NTP) 1994, which
called for issuing operator licenses to the private sector and setting up an independent regulator.
Subsequently, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) was set up in 1997. A revised NTP,
issued in 1999, set out an ambitious and very progressive program for the sector. In 2000 amendments to
TRAI Act also separated the dispute settlement functions from TRAI creating the Telecom Disputes
Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT). By the time the Bank project was approved TRAI and
TDSAT were still relatively new and not well-established agencies. During project preparation, the
government initially expressed interest in focusing on investment and acquiring monitoring spectrum
equipment through Bank support. A spectrum management and monitoring system would enable WPC to
free additional frequencies to private operators, minimize radio interference (thus improving quality of
service), accelerate the process of obtaining new frequency licenses, and reduce the investment risk of
private operators in wireless services. While that component was included--and in financial terms
represented the largest component--the Bank also encouraged the client to include a technical assistance
component to assist in the implementation of elements the NTP99, and to support the different institutions
working in the sector (particularly those newly established) thereby providing a more holistic approach to
sector development.

3.1.4     Consistency with jointly agreed World Bank and GOI's priorities, and the general direction of
World Bank policy: The project design and objectives were also fully in line with the jointly agreed World
Bank/GoI priorities. A critical element of the Country Assistance Strategy was to help the central and state
governments to create and promote an enabling environment for private capital and management to enter
various sectors of the economy, particularly infrastructure. It was consistent with the trend in Bank policy
for utility sectors, but particularly the telecommunications sector, to place greater emphasis on increased
private sector investment and on the need to establish a competitive, well-regulated environment for private
investment to meet the growing demand for information and communications infrastructure.


                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The project objectives were to be achieved through two distinct and interrelated components which
are described below.

(A) DoT Component ($65.87 million) includes the following three main subcomponents:
                                          1




1. Assistance to DoT, Headquarters ($0.18 million)to support the strengthening DoT's government
functions by financing provision of equipment, consultants' services, and training.

2. Assistance to WPC ($65.11 million) for equipment and technical assistance to WPC in the field of
spectrum management to enable WPC to meet the increased demand for spectrum use in India. Financing
was provided for WPC to:

     (a) Procure state-of-the-art equipment for efficient spectrum management through the procurement of
          a national radio spectrum management and monitoring system (NRSMMS). NRSMMS includes:
          (i) an automated spectrum management system (ASMS) which envisaged the automation of the
          processes for radio frequency spectrum management including frequency assignments, wireless
          licenses, etc.; and (ii) a National Spectrum Monitoring System (NSMS) which envisaged
          upgrading the radio monitoring facilities in the Wireless Monitoring Organization (WMO)--the
          field organization of WPC. The different systems were to be set up in an integrated manner, with
          connectivity with the Wireless Monitoring Headquarters, four regional headquarters (in Chennai,
          Delhi, Kolkata, and Mumbai) and the 22 wireless monitoring stations throughout India.
     (b) Provide technical training of staff assigned to the operation and maintenance of the advanced tools
          to be funded by the project, for new front-line supervisors, and for WPC's senior management
          focusing on the importance of effecting a cultural change within WPC.
     (c) Provide technical assistance to WPC for a setting up Project Management Consultancy (PMC) to
          assist in the procurement process (including contract selection and implementation of NRSMMS)
          and to strengthen WPC's institutional capabilities.

3. Technical Assistance to Telecommunications Engineering Center (TEC) ($0.58 million) to support
the strengthening TEC's capacity and capability to be aware of: the emerging technologies, the need for
setting standards in the sector, and the review of implications of telecommunications technology
developments for India's telecommunications sector policy. It provided funding for staff training, namely
for: (a) technical cooperation arrangements involving staff exchanges with relevant foreign regulatory
agencies, information sharing, formal and informal contacts, and advice; (b) seminars and training
programs offered on a periodic basis by private firms, universities, and associations and dealing with
specialized regulatory issues and general regulatory methods; (c) a tour of regulatory agencies in other
countries; and (d) in India, in-house training programs with classroom facilities.

__________________
  1Please note that these figures represent the total component cost, including both the World Bank and GoI
   contributions, after negotiations, which are not identical to the project costs at appraisal.




                                                        - 3 -

(B) TRAI/TDSAT Component ($5.51 million) includes the following two subcomponents:

1. Assistance to TRAI ($4.95 million) included technical assistance to strengthen the TRAI's ability to
regulate the sector. It included support for consultative studies and training. The consultative studies were
to cover priority regulatory issues in regulatory infrastructure, sector liberalization, licensing and
interconnection issues, development network and services, quality of service and customer satisfaction, and
fostering fair competition.

2. Assistance to TDSAT ($0.56 million) supported implementation of a program of technical assistance
for strengthening the institutional capabilities of TDSAT in the areas of adjudication and dispute
resolution.
.
3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    The above components were not revised. Note, however, that: (a) there was a change of costs,
with partial cancellation of the loan (Section 5.4); and (b) the WPC and DOT, Headquarters
subcomponents were effectively implemented jointly.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    At the time of appraisal the project was not reviewed by the World Bank's Quality Assurance
Group; quality-at-entry is considered to have been satisfactory. The project's design factored in India's
telecommunications sector's background, the needs and objectives of the GoI, and the policies and trends in
the sector. The Project Appraisal Document identified the importance of technical assistance to the various
agencies. The project design also supported the need for additional capabilities for spectrum management
resulting from sector growth.

3.5.2    Delays in the procurement and acceptance of the NRSMMS were the main cause of persistent
delays in project implementation. The risk that NRSMMS would not be implemented in a timely and
effective way was identified at entry, and actions were initiated to minimize the risk. For example, a
condition of loan negotiations stated that, prior to negotiations, draft bidding documents for the NRSMMS
were to be be furnished to the World Bank by WPC. In addition, WPC's limited institutional capacity to
implement the project was addressed through planned provision of support for WPC by PMC.                2




3.5.3    While these risks were identified and planned for in the Project Appraisal Document, the mitigating
measures were not sufficient. For example, the PMC was not recruited early enough. Given this, it might
be argued that the WPC component was too complex, and that even with the mitigating measures in place,
WPC was not prepared to manage the task. In addition, and without further back-office changes, the
targets related to this component (for example the target limit of 15 days to approve a license) may have
been too optimistic.

__________________
2The need for such support was justified by the following reasons: (a) this was the first project of its kind that
 WPC would handle, (b) the project's size was large compared to those WPC had handled previously; (c) the
 project was important for India, and WPC could not afford or risk delays and/or suboptimal project
 implementation; (d) the two-stage procurement process adopted for realizing the contract was a complex process;
 (e) although WPC would set up a project unit, WPC personnel would continue to perform their day-to-day
 activities and a dedicated team of industry experts, working uniquely on the project, would ensure the success of
 the project.




                                                        - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    Most of the objectives and performance targets of the project were met or surpassed, and the
improvement of the sector's performance linked to the technical assistance components of the project,
justify rating the overall outcome as "satisfactory." This is despite the fact that the WPC/NRSMMS
component (the largest of the project) suffered significant delays in implementation.

4.1.2    The project's impact in terms of sector policies and private sector development is rated as "high."
The success in sector reform cannot be solely attributed to the project. Nevertheless, TRAI recognizes that
through the project financing and continuous policy dialogue with the Bank, the project played an important
role in working towards implementation of NTP99, specifically the support for regulatory policies that
helped achieve outstanding performance improvements in the telecommunications sector.

4.1.3    As a result of the implementation of reform measures, the structure and performance of India's
telecommunications sector has been transformed and it has become one of the most competitive in the
developing world. Large-scale private investment was made and there was a rapid increase in telephone
lines, especially in mobile services, during the life of the project. For example, the number of mobile
subscribers has increased 34-fold. Teledensity increased between 2003 to 2004 by about 2 percent, i.e.,
increased in one year by more than all the teledensity increase that occurred between 1948 to 1998. At
project closure--seven years after the announcement of the NTP99, and the new Internet Policy--enormous
progress had been made, far surpassing expectations. Some of the other key sector reforms that were
implemented during the project include:

      l Multiple basic operators are permitted in place of the duopoly in each of the 21 "circles."
      l Both national and international long-distance service have been opened to competition.
      l The number of cellular operators in each circle has been increased from two to four in each of
           the 21 "circles."
      l DOT's service provision functions were corporatized into the new Bharat Sanchar Nigam
           Limited.
      l Increase in private vs. government investment has occurred as a result of both competition and
           privatization. Competition has opened the sector to new channels of investment while at the
           same time reducing the market shares of the incumbent operators, Manhangar Telephone Nigam
           Limited, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, and Vides Sanchar Nigam Limited. Furthermore, as a
           result of privatization, government ownership in Vides Sanchar Nigam Limited has been
           reduced to 28 percent.
      l The original license fee scheme which hindered investment was replaced by a combination of
           one-time license fees and revenue-sharing arrangements.
      l Legislative amendments were enacted to clarify TRAI's powers.


4.1.4    Most of the key performance indicators in sector reform in the Project Appraisal Document were
met and expected progress was surpassed. A partial list of achievements is below:

      l Increase in foreign direct investment (FDI): In India, 100 percent foreign ownership is
           permitted for Internet service providers. There has been an increase in FDI in the
           telecommunications sector during 1999 to 2004. The total FDI during 2001 to 2004 was over
           five times that of 1993 to 1996. Foreign direct investors in the sector have included Warburg



                                                       - 5 -

           Pincus and SingTel in Bharti's; Hutchison Whampoa (in seven cellular circles) and AT&T (in
           Birla AT&T in eight cellular circles). Foreign investment ceilings in the sector have also been
           increased from 49 to 74 percent. This is expected to drive growth in India's telecommunications
           industry (Figure 1).
     l Pro-competitive interconnection regime: TRAI issued several regulations and directives during
           1999 to 2003 to establish a pro-competitive interconnection regime.
     l Inter-circle long distance competition: National long-distance (NLD) licenses for new entrants
           were awarded to Bharti, Reliance (January 2002) and Vides Sanchar Nigam Limited (February
           2002). Each of these licensees has commenced NLD operations and NLD tariffs have been
           reduced substantially.



                               Figure 1. FDI Inflow in the Telecom Sector

                                          FDI Inflow in Telecom Sector


                                         60,000
                                         50,000

                                Million  40,000
                                         30,000                                      FDI Inflow
                                Rupees   20,000
                                         10,000
                                              0        1993-96    1997-00  2001-04




                                                              Years


                                       Source: DOT annual report (2004)




4.1.5    The physical implementation of the project is rated "modest" because of the persistent delays in
procurement and implementation of the NRSMMS. At project closure the system is yet to be fully
operationalized and the potential benefits of the NRSMMS component have not been fully achieved.
Nevertheless, this component has helped achieve significant performance improvements in terms of speed
of processing applications--in spite of huge increase in workload. Most of the private investments that
have taken place have been in radio-based networks which has been supported by WPC's administration of
the radio spectrum--reduced delays and enhanced capabilities for efficient spectrum management
processing are increasingly important for sustained sector growth.

4.1.6    The project's contribution to public sector management is rated "substantial" due to the significant
and positive progress in the TRAI and TDSAT components. For the WPC component, although some
improvements have been made, important institutional issues remain. These include the lack of
transparency in the WPC radio licensing process and the fact that WPC's radio spectrum monitoring
function is not used, systematically, to inform the planning process. Furthermore, the process remains slow
for the interdepartmental clearance of certain radio transmitter authorizations of the Standing Advisory
Committee on Radio Frequency Allocations (SACFA), despite improvements in the process. However,
with support from the Bank, consultations with radio spectrum stakeholders have improved.




                                                      - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

DoT Component:

    (a) Assistance to DoT, Headquarters, closed December 2004. Rated "satisfactory." The component
         was small in size, and consisted of a rural telecom study and several training courses. At project
         design, possible inclusion of a rural access component was discussed, but the GoI decided it would
         start with conducting analytical work to study options. This study was completed and has
         informed the discussion on initiatives to improve telecommunications connectivity in rural areas.

    (b) Assistance to WPC, closed in March 2006. Rated "unsatisfactory." The component encountered
         the most difficulties in implementation, with persistent delays and a not fully
         implemented/functional system as an output, resulting in the extension of the closing date to March
         2006 (from December 2004), cancellation of part of the loan and the project being at risk at some
         stages. Some, but not all, of the monitoring indicators were achieved. The system is still
                 3


         constrained by an institutional and business culture environment that has not been optimized, with
         limited changes at back-office level, and license processing delays caused by the lack of
         connectivity at some agencies involved in the SACFA interdepartmental clearance process. For a
         site clearance, for example, the approval of 18 agencies needs to be sought, of which only 50
         percent have on-line connectivity. In spite of its late appointment the PMC was engaged and
         provided valuable advice. Most of the training was bundled with the investment component was
         implemented successfully.

         Having noted that the institutional capability of WPC still needs significant improvement, the
         spectrum management system has transitioned from a purely paper-based system to one that is now
         computer-based and partially automated--with significant performance improvements in terms of
         efficiency, transparency, and speed of processing applications in spite of huge increase in
         workload. The cancelled procurement of equipment does not impact, significantly, the capabilities
                    4


         of the system and the development objective.

__________________________
  3 The ASMS is installed and substantially functional. However, it cannot be fully utilized unless WPC migrates
    all paper-based data into the system. Although the NSMS is substantially in place, persistent delays have
    occurred. Because important divergences between WPC team and the contractor concerning procedure of
    verification of accuracies of measurements and interpretation of results, Final Acceptance Testing of the very
    high frequency/ultra high frequency mobile monitoring vehicles (in respect of direction finding accuracy and
    system sensitivity), is yet to take place. Because the super high frequency (SHF) fixed and mobile system, will
    only be completed after the closing date of the loan, part of the loan has been cancelled. For further details on
    progress see WPC's assessment report of this Implementation Completion Report.
  4 For example, only the process of getting an application ID number, which today is automatic through the
    on-line process, has reduced application time by two to three months. For a site clearance application delays
    are now at five to six months, from over a year. As an illustration of the current WPC workload, some figures
    from the latest annual report: (a) 190,000 new radio frequencies assigned, (b) 615 frequency assignments
    notified to the International Telecommunications Union, (c) 50,000 site clearances processed, (d) 16,000
    licenses issued to new stations, and (e) 10,000 licenses renewed.




                                                         - 7 -

   (c) Technical Assistance to TEC, closed in December 2004. Rated "satisfactory." This component
       was effective in utilizing the funds, with disbursements in the order of 97 percent of its allocation.
       The project supported TEC participation in nine training programs and 25 seminars. TEC
       provides technical support to DoT on technology matters and these training programs and seminars
       helped towards strengthening of institutional capabilities. The TEC report (Annex 8) provides a
       detailed description of the improvements made possible as a result of the training programs.
       Courses such as the ones in dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) intelligent networks
       systems, and international mobile telecommunications (2000) have helped TEC keep up with
       technology's evolution, on which it provides technical advice to GoI.

TRAI/TDSAT Component:

 (a)   Assistance to TRAI, closed in December 2004. Rated "highly satisfactory." This component is,
       arguably, the component with the most impact. Despite slow project implementation early in
       implementation (partly due to uncertainty surrounding the creation of a converged regulatory
       authority and the learning curve), the Technical Assistance component was satisfactorily
       implemented having contributed to providing support for 33 consultancies and 32 training
       programs. Since its inception, TRAI has played an important and catalytic role in the reform and
       transformation of the telecommunications sector, and therefore contributed to the achievement of
       phenomenal growth in the telecommunications services--in particular the mobile and Internet
       services--and increased availability and reach of these services in India.

       TRAI has issued many consultation papers, decisions, and recommendations to GoI on several
       issues. All key performance indicators as set out in the Project Appraisal Document were met and
       the progress expected was surpassed. While this success is not solely attributed to the project, the
       project and dialogue with the Bank have contributed in important ways to the successful reform
       and development of the sector. Annex 8 provides information on the attribution between the
       consultations supported by the project, the public consultations issued, and the decisions or
       recommendations issued as a result. Examples of significant changes which resulted from
       activities supported by the project include the work on account separation, consultations on
       spectrum related issues, and the revision of regulations for user charges for network
       interconnection. The revision of international leased lines prices had a significant impact on prices,
       promoting competition in the sector and promoting growth in productive sectors of the economy,
       such as the business process off-shoring industry. TRAI is today regarded as a highly successful
       agency that has played a key role in shaping the environment for competition and private
       investment in the Indian telecommunications sector.

 (b)   Assistance to TDSAT, closed in December 2004. Rated"highly satisfactory." As a newly
       established agency, TDSAT needed to build its capacity, learn from other practices around the
       world, and raise awareness on its work program with consumers. The TDSAT component
       achieved its main goals and successfully contributed to setting up a library and Website for the
       agency, conducting seminars, and organizing study tours and training programs. The impact of
       regional seminars organized, for example, was directly reflected in the increase in the number of
       cases and references from the regions where these took place. In the last couple of years the
       number of cases received by TDSAT increased in the order of 40 to 60 percent. Exposure to
       international experience has led TDSAT to propose improvements (e.g., Australia's experience has
       been taken into account to establish an ombudsperson to deal with cases from smaller users to
       expedite the process). TDSAT's role is important because it reduces regulatory risk by dealing
       relatively quickly with appeals. During the project's life the processing rate for cases received was



                                                    - 8 -

        above 90 percent per year. TDSAT deals with information access and dissemination in an
        effective manner. Through its Website consumers can access information on all cases. Decisions
        are posted within a half hour so that interested parties can avoid unnecessary travel to the tribunal,
        and TDSAT responds to e-mails within 24 hours. TDSAT also provides financial assistance to
        consumer interest associations, so as to allow them to present their cases to the tribunal.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1   While it was not possible to calculate an economic rate of return, Annex 3 presents a discussion of
some of the economic benefits of the activities supported under the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1   The institutional development impact of the project is rated "substantial."

4.5.2   The capacity building provided through the project contributed substantially to the institutional
development of the agencies involved. TRAI and TDSAT, which were relatively new agencies, are now
well-established and well-regarded agencies, both within government, industry, and at the international
level. Through the training programs and study tours organized under the project, as well as the
consultancies for TRAI and DOT/WPC, the beneficiary agencies gained knowledge of international best
practice and learned from experience around the world. Assistance provided through the project has
supported the institutional development of TRAI, TDSAT, TEC, and DOT /WPC and helped them to
improve the telecommunications regulatory environment, thereby improving the enabling environment for
large-scale private investment. In the case of WPC, the impact of institutional development supported by
the project was limited.




                                                     - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.2   Implementation and testing of NRSMMS has taken considerably longer than expected, which has
had a substantial impact on project output. While part of these delays may be attributed to factors under
government control, others are the responsibility of the contractor.

5.1.3   In particular: (a) the significant delays in local supplies and installation at sites on the part of the
local contractor; (b) the quality of some works was not the most appropriate and some works had to be
redone, and the failure rate of core equipment was unusually high; (c) as part of the acceptance procedure
for the NRSMMS, there are apparent divergences between WPC team and the contractor concerning the
procedure of verification of accuracies of measurements and the interpretation of results, and these
divergences have brought the process to a deadlock; and (d) the many changes in the composition of the
contractors' team that made it difficult to maintain consistency.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1   Effective leadership by senior officials played a key role in the overall satisfactory achievement of
project objectives. Nevertheless, the WPC component encountered difficulties leading to only partial
implementation, with the extension of the loan's closing date, and ultimately the cancellation of part of the
loan. Part of the delay is due to factors which are generally under government control, namely:    5




        (a) Inadequate staffing of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and of WPC/WM0: An
             insufficient number of staff available at the PIU has contributed to weak project
             implementation. This is despite the fact that the World Bank has recommended repeatedly to
             senior management to strengthen the PIU with sufficient staff on a full-time basis. In addition,
             and although WPC and WMO workloads have increased tremendously, yet there has been no
             commensurate increase in staffing.
        (b) Inadequate authority and/or power to implement the project: In addition to limited staff
             levels, the PIU did not have adequate control or authority to implement the project. For
             example, there were inadequate resources for testing. The PIU was dependent on the WMO's
             limited testing facilities and technicians which resulted in testing and acceptance being an
             unusually long process (simulating capabilities were limited, and there was only one team for
             vehicle testing). There were also some divergences between WMO and WPC on technical
             procedures, resulting in protracted negotiations resulting from the, unclear, chain of
             responsibility for choosing testing procedures.
        (c) Institutional environment in which WPC operates that constrains decision-making: The
             incentives and organizational culture and policies within DoT severely constrained the ability
             to take decisions and provide solutions to problems, and this has significantly jeopardized
             timely implementation of the NSMS component.

___________________
5 Please note that the PIU was in practice absorbed by WPC. For the purposes of this Implementation Completion
  Report, when we refer to the "government" we refer to senior management within DOT, whereas
  "implementation agency" refers to the agencies which implemented the project, namely WPC, DOT, TEC,
  TRAI, and TDSAT.




                                                      - 10 -

         (d) Back office processes in place for spectrum management, which remain cumbersome:
              Simplifying and streamlining procedures on back office processes is needed to derive full
              benefits from the NRSMMS. Although the project included support to explore such changes,
              senior management did not place a priority on this activity and changes to back office
              processes and procedures were not made.
         (e) Requirements for local contractor to increase domestic production: GoI's requirement of
              having two contracts for the WPC component, one of them with a local firm as an assignee,
              added complexity to project design and management.     6


         (f) Reluctance to engage the expertise of foreign consultants: The implementing agency decided
             that the agency had adequate capacity to carry out the work, given the large number of
             engineers at WPC and WMO. It was, therefore, reluctant to hire foreign consultants.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

 5.3.1 On the implementation agency side TRAI, TDSAT, and TEC subcomponents ran smoothly.
 Effective leadership by senior officials contributed to the excellent success of this component.

 5.3.2 On the WPC component however, and in spite of measures to mitigate institutional risk, the project
 progress was adversely affected due to administrative weakness and lengthy procedures which resulted in
 delays in taking decisions on important contractual matters. WPC was unable to resolve the ambiguities in
 acceptance testing procedures and the resulting disputes. These problems could have been minimized by
 strengthening capacity and procedures through the early appointment of a PMC (as had been advised,
 early on, by the Bank). However, even after the PMC came on board, WPC and WMO did not always
 optimize their use of the PMC expertise. Possibly the deadlock situation with contractors could have been
 avoided if the implementing agency would have been more proactive in following action steps identified
 jointly with the PMC and the Bank team in establishing a clear time bound plan with exit options, and in
 flagging these to senior management. The timely implementation of this component was jeopardized by
 the inability of contractors and the implementing agency to achieve the implementation plan.
 Disagreements over contractual issues overshadowed the potential benefits that could have been derived
 from the jump in capability and quality of the new spectrum management and monitoring systems. The
 PMC provided action plans and solutions to remedy the situation, particularly related to the testing
 procedures and design parameters for SHF facilities. These could have been considered in a positive light
 by WPC and WMO in order to move forward.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1    The cost of the project financed by the World Bank was $28.62 million as compared to the original
amount of $62 million (see Annex 2 for details of the project cost and financing). During the project's life
the GoI requested two cancellations of the loan:

   l Cancellation of $20 million (January 2004) was due, mostly, to savings achieved through: (a) the
         use of International Competitive Bidding procurement procedures for NRSMMS, and (b) a
         reduction in equipment prices due to advances in technology. From the TRAI component, $2
         million was cancelled due to slow disbursement at the start of the project, and involved a
         reassessment of consultancy and training needs. The project development objectives related to
         TRAI were achieved despite the downsizing of the component.

___________________
6 Items to be covered by the local contractor included ex-works supply of plant and equipment such as installation,
  testing and commissioning, customization and maintenance of all the off shore plant and equipment.




                                                       - 11 -

                                  Table 1. Project Financing

                       WB              At           After      Composition of
                    Financing     Negotiations   $20 million     $20 million
                    [$ million]                 Cancellation    Cancellation
                      WPC            $ 55.73       $ 37.68         $ 18.05
                    DOT (HQ)          $ 0.15        $ 0.10          $ 0.05
                       TEC            $ 0.50        $ 0.50             -
                      TRAI            $ 4.50        $ 2.50          $ 2.00
                     TDSAT            $ 0.50        $ 0.60         $ (0.10)
                   Front-end fee      $ 0.62        $ 0.62
                      Total          $ 62.00       $ 42.00           $20



l Cancellation of $7.67 million (February 2006) due to persistent delays in the implementation of
 the WPC component lead to this cancellation, even after the extension of the closing date. In
 November 2005, a World Bank mission noted that there were significant delays in one of the
 NSMS components (for SHF fixed and mobile monitoring) and that successful completion would
 not be reached before the closing date. The GoI, therefore, asked for the cancellation of the
 corresponding amount of the loan.




                                           - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the project's achievements is likely. Technical assistance and capacity
building in all agencies, but with a particular emphasis on TRAI and TDSAT (which had been established
close to the time of project negotiations) have contributed to institutional build-up and the ability of these
agencies is evident from the significant improvements in their performance over the last five years. These
agencies (as previously mentioned) are now well-established and well-regarded, both within government,
industry, and at the international level. Sector reform has achieved a substantial overhaul of the previous
regime and private sector participation in the sector is now substantial and expected to increase. There is
commitment in the GoI to continue reforms and to increasingly make the market structure competitive.

6.1.2    On the investment side, ASMS has started to be used and will be an increasingly essential tool for
WPC to deal with its increasing volume of applications and workload. Full implementation of NRSMMS
should, in the future, contribute to greater efficiency and increased generation of revenue--an increase of
10 to 15 percent might be expected through automatic processing at time of license renewal (current
revenue around $250 million per year). Cleaner spectrum with greater quality of transmission can also be
made possible through the implementation of the NSMS monitoring component. The PMC support has
continued with DoT's own funds after termination of World Bank funding. However, there are serious
concerns that the monitoring component (NSMS) will not be fully implemented as the SHF components are
being considered for cancellation.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    The question of transition arrangements only arises with respect to the WPC component. In this
case, already during the course of the project, activities have been integrated into regular operations, and
the PIU has been absorbed by WPC. In order for WPC to derive benefits from the NRSMMS, the GoI
should ensure that adequate and trained staff resources are provided to operate and maintain the systems
that have been installed.

6.2.1    Going forward, while much has been achieved in India's ICT sector, there remains an unfinished
agenda. Teledensity is still low, especially in rural areas, and radio spectrum is coming under increasing
pressure. Despite the newly added radio spectrum management and monitoring capabilities, the spectrum
management process needs further modernization and upgrading.




                                                      - 13 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    The Bank performance during lending is rated as "satisfactory." During all stages of the project,
the Bank maintained close dialogue with the GoI and the different participating agencies to ensure that the
project objectives were directly in line with the client's goals for the sector. While being responsive to
client's needs, the World Bank encouraged the client to include a technical assistance component to support
sector reform and institutional and capacity building, and these components turned out to be the ones with
the most impact, with dramatic performance improvements in the sector.

7.1.2    The risk of delay in the procurement of the NRSMMS was appropriately identified. Although
these mitigating measures were not sufficient, the Bank supported GoI in obtaining external expertise to
assist in project design and preparation of bidding documents prior to negotiations.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The Bank's performance during supervision is rated as "satisfactory." Regular supervision
missions were carried out and documentation on the project is adequate. Modifications in the project,
including extension of closing dates were processed by Bank staff in an efficient manner in order to respond
to the Borrower's needs. The clients, and in particular TRAI, appreciated the fast turnaround of Bank
approval processes, providing the flexibility and responsiveness when needed. This was the case, for
example, when TRAI's role was extended to the carriage of broadcasting signals and the authority had the
urgent need to build capacity in this domain in a relatively short period of time. The positive contributions
to sector and institutional developments resulting from policy dialogue with the Bank with all concerned
parties under the project were particularly recognized and appreciated. WPC has noted that World Bank
missions are useful in moving the process forward.

7.2.2    While there were persistent delays in the procurement and implementation of the NRSMMS, the
World Bank continuously advised the client and identified the risks. For example, this includes the advice
to appoint a PMC (see Annex 9), and to require monthly progress reports.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1    The overall Bank performance is rated "satisfactory." The various agencies involved have
emphasized the extent of the harmonious and fruitful working relationship and policy dialogue which the
Bank maintained with all concerned parties under the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated "satisfactory." The Borrower participated
actively and with commitment in the preparation of the project.

7.4.2    However, at preparation there was a delay of around eight months in the appointment of
consultants to assist WPC in preparing the bidding documents, which delayed, considerably, the loan
negotiations. This delay was due to GoI approval of the selection of consultant under Bank guidelines
(Fixed-Budget Selection process) which differed from the GoI's procedures.




                                                      - 14 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1   The GoI's performance during preparation is rated as "satisfactory." Important steps were taken
toward sector reform, institutional improvements, and continued evolution toward sector liberalization.
NRSMMS is yet to be fully accepted and made operational and some of the major factors affecting
implementation could have been unblocked by more proactive action from government. However, the
project outcome has not been compromised significantly.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1   The implementing agencies performance during preparation is rated "satisfactory." The different
agencies managed to draw upon benefits from the technical assistance services financed by the project to
significantly contribute to reform and development of the telecommunications sector, with increased
competitiveness and unprecedented growth. Delays in the WPC component reflected problems with the
contractors as well as resources, decision capacity and empowerment given to the PIU. Having said this,
the PIU could have played a more proactive role in flagging problems with senior management and
presenting options for decision, as a trigger for action.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.6.2   The overall performance the GoI's is rated "satisfactory." The relationship between the GoI and
the Bank was good and fruitful throughout project implementation. GOI is in compliance with all loan
covenants and the project has achieved most of the performance indicators. Although the WPC component
was not fully accomplished, this did not severely affect the project outcome.




                                                      - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned


8.1    Some lessons, indicated below, can be gleaned from the design and implementation of this project:

   l Clear leadership, willingness to implement reforms at a senior level, and a broad consensus of
       priorities are prerequisites for smooth project implementation.
   l Investing in capacity building is key to addressing sustainability: once expertise is developed,
       institutions become empowered to drive and sustain reforms. Implementing improved policies,
       processes, and changes in institutions and people's incentives and attitudes to focus on results and
       on outcome rather than process are prerequisites to enhance the decision-making capability within
       institutions.
   l PIUs need to be empowered with the appropriate staff, resources, and authority over the elements
       that directly affect implementation (people, processes, etc.). Addressing these from the start (e.g.,
       the existence of full complement of staff in place with appropriate delegation powers) is a
       fundamental requirement for the success of this kind of operations.
   l The provision of adequate technical assistance at the very beginning to build good project
       management and implementation capacity in the PIU, could have contributed greatly to the success
       and sustainability of the project.
   l When projects are complex and the experience in managing such projects is limited, it is essential
       to appoint a project management consultant early on, and to ensure that there is the appropriate
       buy-in for their recommendations. In addition, it might be appropriate to proceed in a phased
       manner, by developing a prototype before expanding to a fully scaled-up system.
   l In complex systems, when using two subcontractors, it is essential to establish a clear reporting
       structure, and preferably for one contractor to be subordinate to the other, so that ultimate
       responsibility lies with a single contractor. Requiring domestic production of parts may add to
       project complexity.
   l In the telecommunications sector where technology advancement is a key driver of change, it is
       necessary to build flexibility into the project. In India, this allowed for project realignment when
       necessary, thus facilitating the redefinition of needs.
   l For a more sophisticated or institutionally capable client such as TRAI, the Consultants
       Qualification procurement method was useful and provided significant flexibility and speed in
       hiring consultants to help with important or urgent issues. However, the $100,000 threshold was
       low in a sector where consultants' rates are high.  7




   ______________________
   7Please note that since May 2004, under the revised guidelines, this threshold has increased to $200,000.




                                                     - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1      The World Bank has received the implementing agencies' reports on completion of the project (incl.
WPC, TEC, TDSAT, TRAI and DOT), and these are reproduced, unedited, in Annex 8. In summary, the
different agencies acknowledge the benefits in terms of capacity building and support to sector reform.
With respect to the Spectrum Monitoring component, the client acknowledges the difficulties and delays in
project implementation. Lessons learned are reflected in Section 8 of this report.

9.2      The draft ICR was sent to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Ministry of Finance
and the implementing agencies on August 28, 2006 for comments. Feedback provided by WPC and TEC
was incorporated. By September 29, 2006, no comments were received from DEA.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information


Not applicable.




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Interconnection regime conducive to           Interconnection regime conducive to         Regulations and directives have been issued.
competition in place, latest 2002             competition in place latest 2002            Interconnection regime conducive to
                                                                                          competition, in place
Assign frequencies for earmarked bands        Assign frequencies for earmarked bands      Frequency assignment within 15 days for
within 15 days of application, latest by 2004 within 15 days of application               selected bands not achieved yet
Intercircle domestic long distance service    Liberalization latest by 2001               Liberalization achieved. BSNL, Bharti,
liberalization, latest by 2001.                                                           Reliance and VSNL licenses issued for
                                                                                          intercircle domestic long distance service


BSNL = Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited
VSNL = Vides Sanchar Nigam Limited



Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate


Implementation of agreed training program,                                                Agreed training program implemented.
including study tours.
Publish National Frequency Allocation Plan    Publish every two years                     Published in years 2000, 2002, 2004
by 2001.
Implement state-of-the-art computerized                                                   A state-of-the-art computerized licensing
licensing system and install modernized                                                   system and install modernized and spectrum
spectrum monitoring facilities for effective                                              monitoring facilities for effective control and
control and regulation by 2003.                                                           regulation have been implemented but are yet
                                                                                          to be fully operational
Issuance by December 31, 2001 consultative TRAI to issue multiple public consultation     TRAI has issued about 60 public consultation
papers on:                                    papers, many with input from the project on papers, many with input from the project on
                                              key regulatory issues.                      key regulatory issues.
(a) Interconnection in TRAI multi-operator
environment.
(b) Licensing/spectrum Management for
Third Generation Mobile.
(c) Regulatory Issue on Internet Telephony
and Information Infrastructure.
(d) Equal Ease Access in the context of
National Long distance opening.

Issuance by December 31, 2002 consultative
papers on:
(a) Study of Universal service funding
methodology.
(b) Regulatory issues relating to access by
cable operators.
(c) Regulatory issues relating to introduction
of Intelligent Network services based on IN
platform.
(d) Techno-economic issues relating to
number portability in a multi-operator
environment

1 End of project




                                                                 - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate           Estimate             Appraisal
                           Component                                   US$ million        US$ million
DoT Component                                                              60.24                26.53                   44
(includes DOT-HQ, WPC and TEC subcomponents)
TRAI/TDSAT Component                                                        5.07                  2.73                  54

Total Baseline Cost                                                        65.31                29.26
  Physical Contingencies                                                    3.31
  Price Contingencies                                                       2.76
                              Total Project Costs                          71.38                29.26
                                               Front-end fee                0.62                  0.62
                       Total Financing Required                            72.00                29.88

Note 1: Contributions from GoI only available for some components. Therefore, while appraisal estimates include
GoI contribution, actuals mostly only include World Bank disbursements. Pleases see Project Financing table for
more information.
Note 2: There were two cancellations during the life of the project, but these cancellations are not reflected in the
table above. i.e., the percentages of disbursements relate to the original estimates, and not the revised project costs
after cancellation.
Note 3: At the time this report was issued the Advance to the Special Account had a balance of $1,931,815.24 that
was to be documented. The World Bank was expecting a refund from the Borrower for this amount.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                       2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
1. Works                                  0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00              0.00
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)
2. Goods                                 62.05               0.00               0.60               0.00             62.65
                                         (53.73)            (0.00)             (0.50)             (0.00)           (54.23)
3. Services                               0.00               0.00               5.39               0.50              5.89
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)             (4.65)             (0.00)            (4.65)
4. Training                               0.00               0.00               2.84               0.00              2.84
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.50)             (0.00)            (2.50)
5. Front-end fee                          0.00               0.00               0.62               0.00              0.62
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.62)             (0.00)            (0.62)
    Total                                62.05               0.00               9.45               0.50             72.00
                                         (53.73)            (0.00)             (8.27)             (0.00)           (62.00)




                                                        - 19 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                      2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
  1. Works                                  0.00              0.00               0.00               0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 23.73              0.00               0.00               0.00             23.73
                                           (23.73)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (23.73)
  3. Services                               0.00              0.00               2.64               0.00              2.64
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.64)            (0.00)            (2.64)
  4. Training                               0.00              0.00               1.63               0.00              1.63
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.63)            (0.00)            (1.63)
  5. Front-end fee                          0.00              0.00               0.62               0.00              0.62
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.62)            (0.00)            (0.62)
      Total                                23.73              0.00               4.89               0.00             28.62
                                           (23.73)            (0.00)             (4.89)            (0.00)           (28.62)
  Please note that no information is available on the procurement method for GoI contributions.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through National Shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
      staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      (a) managing the project, and (b) relending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.      Bank      Govt.   CoF.


DoT Component                  56.38        9.49                     25.27         1.26                    44.8     13.3
TRAI/TDSAT Component            5.00        0.51                      2.73                                 54.6      0.0
Front-end fee                   0.62                                  0.62                                100.0
Total                          62.00        10.00                    28.62         1.26                    46.2     12.6


  Note 1: GoI contributions only known for WPC and TEC subcomponents.
  Note 2: There were two cancellations during the life of the project, but these cancellations are not reflected in the
  table above. i.e., the percentages of disbursements relate to the original estimates, and not the revised project costs
  after cancellation.
  Note 3: At the time this report was issued the Advance to the Special Account had a balance of $1,931,815.24
  that was to be documented. The World Bank was expecting a refund from the Borrower for this amount.




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A3.1     The main activity of the project was to strengthen elements of India's policy and regulatory
environment to promote private investment and competition in the telecommunications sector. This was
done through supporting these agencies in improving their institutional capacity, systems and procedures,
developing staff skills, assisting in the development of consultation papers, and implementing modern radio
frequency spectrum management and monitoring and information systems. It is difficult to provide a
quantitative estimate of benefits accrued from the project, and to quantify the benefits resulting from the
response of the private investors to the regulatory and policy environment. However this section provides
some elements for addressing this issue.

A3.2     Experiences from other countries have shown that an effective, transparent, and accountable
governance of the sector is critical in attracting investment in telecommunications infrastructure. The
experience from the project shows that India is no exception. Public-private partnership in
telecommunication infrastructure has brought great benefits to the Indian economy and to telecom
subscribers. Prior to liberalization, local calls, national long-distance calls and international calls were
either managed by government or by government companies and this network constituted a vertically
integrated natural monopoly. Post liberalization led to many competing, public and private players,
operating in the network in a competitive environment. The reform process started only after the issuance
of NTP94, which called for bidding for private licenses and setting up an independent regulator. The
independent regulator was set up in 1997 after the promulgation of TRAI Act, 1997. The regulator issued
the first tariff order in 1999 and thus the reform process really started during 1999. Some problems were
identified in NTP 94 and in the implementation of TRAI Act, 1997. This led to issuance of NTP 99 and
amendments in TRAI Act in 2000.

A3.3     Major progress and phenomenal growth have been made in the sector over the last few years.
Most of the telecom services in India had a late start. India mobile telephony was not introduced until
1995, for example in 1948 teledensity was at 0.02 percent; by 1998 it increased to 1.94 percent. From
1998 to 2003 it increased to 5.11 percent. The growth picked up substantially after 2003, and during 2003
to 2004 and 2004 to 2005 it has been of the order of 2 percent every year. During each year the growth
exceeded the first 50-year growth after 1948, and this would also happen in 2005 to 2006.

A3.4     This growth has come in after the GoI/TRAI made major changes in the policies, structure, and the
regulation in the telecommunication sector. Growth has been primarily mobile telephony oriented and
driven by competition. Figure A3.1 shows how specific measures taken by TRAI to reduce tariffs had a
direct impact on sector growth. These included encouraging increased competition, introducing an unified
access licensing regime, introducing a calling party pays regime, lowering of access deficit charges from 30
to 10 percent of the sectoral revenue, allowing cheaper handsets being sold at the time of delivery (with rest
of the money charged in installments), and allowing cheaper intranetwork calls giving consumer relief.
Many of these measures were supported through the project (see Annex 8).




                                                       - 21 -

    Figure A3.1. Reforms Introduced by TRAI, Mobile Growth and Effective Charge per Minute




                                                   Source: TRAI


A3.5    TRAI has issued multiple consultation papers on tariff ceilings, licensing regimes, and
interconnection charges and regulatory action has reduced interconnection and termination costs, further
lowering prices for the benefit of the consumer. Examples are the average national termination rate, which
has been reduced from US 31.68 cents in 2002 to US 3.10 cents in 2005, or the gap between
interconnection rates in Mumbai and the rest of the country (mostly rural areas), which have been closed
for the most part, with benefits for the consumer.


                                Table A3.1. Interconnection Rates, 2001-2005

                                                           2001     2002      2003        2004     2005
                 Rate to largest city (US cents)           18.5      15.8      8.3        9.8      10.1
                 Rate to rest of country (US cents)        37.9      24.6      12.2       10.9     10.4
                 Rate to mobile (US cents)                  41        25       9.2        10.5     10.3
                                             Source: Telegeography


A3.6    The change in sector policies has brought significant investment to the sector. Private operators
contributed to post 1998 growth (Figure A3.2), and private investment has increased significantly over the
years (Figure A3.3). The public-private cooperation and competition led to immense improvement in the
performance of both public and private sector. Although a significant percentage of investment remains
domestic, FDI in the sector has been increasing and is expected to continue to increase as a result of raising
the cap to FDI to 74 percent. In addition to FDI another significant development is the ability of private
sector to raise capital locally, which is significant when looking at market capitalizations of companies
such as Bharti or Reliance. Currently both Hutch and Spice are planning initial public offerings.



                                                      - 22 -

                                                                 Figure A3.2. Public vs. Private Subscriber Base

                                                                       Subscriber base of PSU & Private sector operators


                                                   60


                                                   50


                                                   40
                           [millions]
                                                                                                                                    Total Pvt.
                                     base          30
                                                                                                                                    Total PSU

                                                   20

                                         Subscriber10


                                                    0
                                                       March, March, March, March, March, March, March, March, July, 05
                                                         98      99     00       01       02       03     04       05

                                                                                     Year ending



                                                                                        Source: TRAI


                                                    Figure A3.3. Increases in Telecommunications Investments, 1995-2004

                                                                                 Telecom Investments in India


                          7000

                          6000

                          5000

                          4000
                          3000

             (US$Millions)2000

                          1000

                                                    0
                                                        1995     1996     1997      1998       1999    2000     2001      2002  2003     2004

                                                                                                   Year


                                                                   Domestic Private Investmet               FDI

                                                                   Total                                    Linear (Total)

                                                                   Linear (Domestic Private Investmet)      Linear (FDI)

                                                   Source: Private Participation in Infrastructure (PPI) Project Database, World Bank


A3.7    The benefits of improved telecommunications services do not remain exclusively in the sector, and
are not exclusively private. Competitive prices in international leased lines circuits were one of the
fundamental triggers for the location of business process outsourcing in India, for example. In addition,
network externalities and the use of information and communications technologies in education, health, and
other social services may imply social benefits that need to be taken into account in assessing the economic
impact of telecommunications investment.




                                                                                             - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Dec. 1997                  2    1 Sr. Private Sector Development
                                              Specialist, 1 Economist
              Apr. 998                   3    1 Economist, 1 Senior Financial
                                              Analyst, 1 Private Consultant
              Oct. 1998                  6    1 Sr. Financial Analyst, 1 Sr.
              (pre-appraisal)                 Telecoms Policy Specialist, 1 Pr.
                                              Telecoms Engineer, 1
                                              Procurement Analyst, 1Financial
                                              Management Specialist, 1 Pr.
                                              Financial Analyst

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Mar. 1999                  8    1 Sr. Financial Analyst, 1 Pr.
                                              Telecoms Policy Specialist, 1
                                              Pr. Telecoms Engineer, 1 Sr.
                                              Procurement Specialist, 1
                                              Financial Management
                                              Specialist, 1 Telecoms
                                              Advisor, 1 Economist, 1
                                              Director
              Jan-Feb 2000               3    1 Sr. Financial Analyst, 1
                                              Procurement Analyst, 1 Sr.
                                              Procurement Specialist

 Supervision

              Sept-Oct. 2000             3    1 Pr. Telecoms Policy Specialist,     S               S
                                              1 Senior Financial Analyst, 1
                                              Consultant/Engineer
              Mar-Apr. 2001              1    1 Consultant/Engineer                 S               S
              Sept. 2001                 2    1 Principal Telecom Specialist, 1     S               S
                                              Principal Telecom Engineer
              Nov. 2002                  2    1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1          U               S
                                              Consultant
              May 2003                   1    1 Telecom Engineer                    S               S
              Sept. 2003                 3    1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1          S               S
                                              Consultant/Engineer, 1 Senior
                                              Counsel
              Dec. 2003                  1    1 Consultant/Engineer                 S               S
              Mar. 2004                  2    1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1          S               S
                                              Consultant/Engineer
              Sept-Oct. 2004             3    1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1          S               S
                                              Consultant/Telecom Engineer, 1
                                              Lead Operations Officer
              Mar. 2005                  3    1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1          S               S
                                              Consultant/Telecom Engineer, 1



                                               - 24 -

                                            Sr ICT Policy Specialist
               Oct 2005                4    1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1        U    S
                                            Consultant/Telecom Engineer, 1
                                            Lead Operations Officer, 1 Sr
                                            ICT Policy Specialist

 ICR
               Mar. 2006              3     1 Lead Telecom Specialist,
                                            1 Sr ICT Policy Specialist
               May 2006               3     1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1 Sr
                                            ICT Policy Specialist, 1 ICT
                                            Policy Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            12.2                              94
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    56                            353
  Supervision                              56                            557
  ICR                                     8.3                             72
  Total                                  133                           1,076




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Available in IRIS4 and SAP:

Project Appraisal Document
Project aide-memoires
Project supervision reports
Back-to-office reports
Project ISRs
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report




                                            - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (unedited)

                                    Annex 8.1 - ICR Report from WPC

No. WPC/ICR/2006-PIU
Ministry of Communications & IT
Department of Telecommunications
Wireless Planning & Coordination (WPC) Wing
Project Implementation Unit

     Subject: Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - National Radio Spectrum Management &

                                             Monitoring System

1.      Brief of the Project:

1.1     "National Radio Spectrum Management & Monitoring System (NRSMMS)" in the Wireless
Planning & Coordination (WPC) Wing of the Ministry of Communications, Department of
Telecommunications, envisages automation of process for RF Spectrum Management, including frequency
assignments, wireless licences, etc. and upgradation of the radio monitoring facilities in the Wireless
Monitoring Organisation, the field organisation of the WPC Wing. The project was planned as part of the
World Bank assisted `Telecom Sector Reform TA Project'.

1.2     The contract for WPC Component was been awarded to M/S Thales Communication, France for
design, manufacture and supply of all offshore Plant and Equipment and to their assignee M/s HFCL
(India), New Delhi, India for Ex-Work supply of Plant and Equipment from India including all services
like installation, training and maintenance. Originally the project was slated to be complete by June 2004.
However, due to various reasons, implementation of the project has been delayed.

1.3   The `Telecom Sector Reform TA Project' was to be implemented with a total cost of US $ 72
million, .The loan portion of the World Bank constituted US $ 62 million and the contribution of Govt. of
India amounted to equivalent of US $ 10 million. The beneficiaries of the project are DoT (HQ), WPC
Wing, TEC, TRAI and TDSAT. The major component is for WPC Wing with a total outlay of US $ 65.11
million (World Bank loan US $ 55.73 million) for implementation of the "National Radio Spectrum
Management and Monitoring System (NRSMMS)".

        Loan amount of US$ 20 million was cancelled with effect from January 23, 2004. Thereafter,
Telecom Sector Reform T.A. Project was left with a total outlay of US $ 52 million, consisting of World
Bank loan component of US $ 42 million and a Govt. of India component of US $ 10 million.
Consequently the WPC component of the Project was reduced to a total outlay of US $ 47.06 million,
consisting of World Bank component of US $ 37.68 million and Government of India component of US $
9.38 million. An amount of US $ 7.67 million has further been cancelled with effect from February 1,
2006 that finally made total allocation to WPC as US $ 39.39 million (Word Bank loan US$ 30.01 and
GOI US $ 9.38 million).

2.      The main components of the NRSMMS project are:

2.1     Automated Spectrum Management System (ASMS):

        This is intended to automate various activities of WPC Wing in an integrated manner along with
connectivity with Wireless Monitoring Headquarter, Regional Headquarters (Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata and



                                                    - 29 -

Mumbai) and wireless monitoring stations throughout the country. It has a number of computer
Workstations connected in LAN/ WAN mode with suitable servers. The system includes features to
safeguard the database from loss and has appropriate data backup facilities.

2.2    National Spectrum Monitoring System (NSMS)

        The following broad facilities were envisaged under this part:

2.21   V/UHF Monitoring Facility

      Fixed Radio Monitoring Facilities at 4 Regional Headquarters (RHQs) with antenna towers.
      Mobile Monitoring units for 21 Wireless Monitoring Stations in frequency band 10 KHz  3GHz.
      Antenna tower at 9 Wireless Monitoring Stations to be used for fixed monitoring utilizing the
       equipment of Mobile Monitoring vehicles.

2.2.2  SHF Monitoring Facility

      Mobile Monitoring units covering the frequency band 2-40 GHz at 20 Wireless Monitoring
       Stations.
      Augmentation of satellite monitoring capability at International Satellite Monitoring Earth Station,
       Jalna, near Aurangabad (Maharashtra)

2.2.3  HF Direction Finder Facility

     HF (long distance) Direction Finder (DF) at Kolkata and Mumbai.

3.     Status of the Project (as on 31st March 2006):

        Various facilities for Automated Spectrum Management System (ASMS) and Radio Monitoring
for HF, VHF and UHF bands have been almost completed. However, the SHF monitoring facilities both
fixed and mobile are largely delayed. The present status of the NRSMMS project is as under: -

3.1    Automated Spectrum Management System (ASMS)

      The Servers and Workstations have been installed.
      Applications for frequency and SACFA clearance are now being received through web server and
       are being examined in ASMS server.
      The system is functional/ operational at Sanchar Bhawan.
       The installation of workstations, server, LAN/WAN etc. at WMO Headquarter and 21 wireless
       monitoring stations have been completed except at Siliguri and the ISDN connectivity at wireless
       monitoring stations, Gorakhpur
      Connectivity with field units of Monitoring Organization is being tested as part of testing for
       respective units.

3.2    National Spectrum Monitoring System

3.2.1  Fabrication and Installation:

(I)    Fixed Sites (21)

      Fixed monitoring facilities for V/UHF bands and computers at 4 RHQs have been installed.
      Out of 9 other Wireless Monitoring Stations with antenna towers for V/UHF, installation of towers
       and computers has been completed at 7 sites. Installation of computers at remaining 8 Wireless



                                                   - 30 -

       Monitoring Stations has been completed.
      Due to land disputes at two Monitoring Stations Goa and Jallandhar, tower installation works
       could not commence earlier. These have now been resolved and the Contractors have been asked to
       go ahead with the installation of tower etc. at these two locations.

(II)   V/UHF Monitoring Facility (Fixed and Mobile):

      As stated above, the installation work at all the four fixed radio monitoring facilities at Regional
       Headquarter has been completed.
      All the V/UHF mobile monitoring vehicles have been fabricated and integrated.

(III)  SHF Monitoring Facility

      The successive designs submitted by the Contractors have failed to meet the technical specification
       of the Contract for which they had given `Fully Complaint' Statement in the compliance table.
      The cancellation of SHF portion of the Project is under consideration.

(IV) HF Direction Finder Facility

     Installation and fabrication of HF (long distance) Direction Finder (DF) facilities at Kolkata
       and Mumbai have been completed except civil construction work for pathways.

3.2.2  Testing and Acceptance:

(I)   Fixed Sites (21):

      Acceptance tests for hardware facilities installed at WMO Headquarter, T&D center and 8
       Monitoring Stations have been completed and anomalies are being rectified by the Contractors.
      The site at RHQ/IMS, Kolkata is yet to be offered by the Contractors for testing.
      The testing of 9 Monitoring Stations with V/UHF antenna towers is related with the delivery of
       V/UHF Mobile Monitoring Vehicles at those locations. The testing of computer system will also be
       carried out at that time simultaneously.

(II)   V/UHF Monitoring Facility .

      Acceptance test for fixed V/UHF facility at RHQs/IMSs Chennai, Mumbai and New Delhi have
       been completed except `DF Accuracy' tests. The anomalies are being rectified by the Contractors.
      The Contractors have so far offered 19 V/UHF mobile monitoring vehicles for acceptance test.
       Tests have been completed except the `System Sensitivity' and anomalies being resolved.
      These vehicles are yet to be accepted as one important test namely "System Sensitivity" is yet to be
       resolved .

    (III) HF Direction Finder Facility

      Acceptance test of HF Direction Finder Facility at IMS at Mumbai has been completed. The
       anomalies are being rectified by the Contractors.
      The site at IMS, Kolkatta for `HF DF' facility is yet to be offered by the Contractors for testing.

4.     Evaluation of the beneficiaries' own performance during the evolution and implementation of
the project, with special emphasis on lessons learnt that may be relevant in the future;

4.1 The Project authorities including the PIU have made all possible efforts to make the Project a success.


                                                   - 31 -

However, due to the highly complex nature of the Project, the experience with both the Contractors i.e. M/s
HFCL and M/s Thales has not been fully satisfactory. Both appear to lack expertise in the field.

4.2 The Project Implementation Unit for such a project having large `Automation' component should
consist of adequate number of technical officers from relevant fields as well as from IT field and finance
fields. The Project Implementation Unit should have adequate administrative, executive and financial
powers to implement the Project smoothly.

4.3 The Payment terms for offshore supplies under the Contract for a turn key project, should be around
50% only. Rest of the payments should be made in phases on basis of completion of the Project.

4.4 For turn key projects and where multiple units of a type are to be supplied by the Contractor, initially a
proto-type unit should be fabricated and integrated quickly, say within 10-15 % of the total period of the
Project and tested. Only after the proto-type unit has been found acceptable, the equipment for remaining
units should be procured and the units fabricated / integrated.

4.5 The main Contractor should be fully responsible for the satisfactory and timely completion of the
Project irrespective of the fact that whether the local counterpart is a `sub contractor' or `Assignee'

4.6 The availability of the Project Management Consultancy (PMC) right from beginning of the Project
would have been helpful.

4.7 The specific experience of the Contractor(s) for various individual parts of the Project, rather than a
general, overall experience in the field, should be taken into account for assessment purposes.

4.8 The amount of performance Bank guarantee should be more than the last installment of payment and
the amount of maximum liquidity damages, taken together.

4.9 There should be three main Missions from the World Bank during beginning, mid term and
completion of the Project, with regular reporting of progress.

5       Evaluation of the Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, including effectiveness of the relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learnt.

5.1 The World Bank has been extremely helpful throughout the Project. However, the following points are
suggested for consideration by the World Bank.

5.2 For turn key projects the Bank should suggest a provision of larger amount as Performance Bank
guarantee. Also the Bank should suggest stricter payment terms for off shore supplies, say, around 50%
against receipt of goods and rest of the payment in parts on the basis of successful completion of Project.
Further, where multiple units of a type are to be supplied by the Contractor, initially a proto-type unit of
each type should be procured, fabricated/ integrated and tested within 10-15 % of the total time period
.Only on successful completion/testing of such proto type unit, the remaining units should be procured.

5.3 For such a highly technical and complex Project, the Bank should suggest complete responsibility of
the main Contractor, irrespective of whether the local partner/counterpart is a `sub-contractor' or
`Assignee'.

6. The facilities procured/established under the NRSMMS project would be fully utilized for effective
spectrum management and radio monitoring activities.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 8.2 - ICR Report from TEC




                                   - 33 -

April 2005

1.     Background:

  The World Bank Telecom Sector Reform TA project for TEC had the objective of strengthening the
  institutional capabilities to set technical standards in multi- operator telecommunication sector in India.
  The project was planned to build up technical competence in new technology areas so that TEC could
  effectively plan a combination of available resources and new technologies in a cost effective manner.
  The project was in appreciation of the fact that TEC is a nodal wing of DoT for standardization and
  induction of new technologies.

  The project started in September 2000 and ended in December 2004.

2.     Project Costs:

   This project had two components. The first component was the World Bank contribution of USD
   500,000, the Rs equivalent of which was 2.15 crores. The second was the Indian component of Rs.
   0.344 crores, which was to be spent towards the salaries and office expenses of staff involved with the
   project and training.

3.     Physical Achievements:

   TEC utilized the available funds in a focused manner. A number of training courses were identified in
   the latest technology areas and TEC officers were deputed to attend them. Many of these courses were
   designed to suit the specific requirements of TEC in terms of course contents so that maximum benefit
   could be availed from these trainings. Similarly, the participation of TEC officers in various
   standardization meetings/seminars was carefully chosen so as to ensure visibility of Indian
   participation in these meets and also to provide adequate exposure to the officers. Following is the
   summary of trainings and seminars/meetings attended by TEC officers, utilizing the fund under the
   project:

       No. of trainings                   :       9
       No. of participants                :       38

       No. of seminars/meetings           :       25
       No. of participants                :       31

  A detailed list of trainings and seminars/meetings attended by TEC officers is attached at annexure 1
  and annexure 2.

4.     Financial achievements:

   TEC successfully utilized 2.09 crores of the funds allotted out of the 2.15 crores, under the World
   Bank component, which amounted to 97 percent utilization. Further, out of the government of India
   component of Rs. 0.344 crore, Rs. 0.06 crore was utilized.

5. Overall benefits from the project:

   The World Bank TA project for TEC achieved its objective of strengthening the institutional


                                                    - 34 -

  capabilities. TEC was successful in identifying and finalizing training programmes in the new
  technology areas and depute officers for training. Totally, 9 such trainings were identified, which
  included such technologies as personal communications, IMT-2000, intelligent networks, dense
  wavelength division multiplexing, and converged networks. A summary of accrued benefits from these
  training programmes is attached at annexure 3 of this report.

  TEC also deputed its officers to attend the seminars/meetings of various standardization organizations.
  Most of these meetings were organized by ITU whose standards are generally adopted for the Indian
  telecommunication network. TEC officers have made distinction while attending these meetings. Their
  participation has resulted in presentation of a number of papers in the ITU-T Study Group meetings.
  TEC has published 309 Generic Requirements (GRs) and Interface Requirements (IRs) during the
  project period. These specifications cover the wide spectrum of telecommunication technologies and
  standards, including GSM/CDMA mobile technologies, next generation networks, next generation
  SDH, Wi-Fi, Wimax technologies, IP technologies etc. As a result of TEC's participation in the SG
  meetings, TEC was able to adopt the new standards, as soon as they were ratified by ITU member
  states. This provided an opportunity to the Indian Telecom market to acquire the latest technology
  equipment to provide new and quality services.

5.    Conclusion:

  The World Bank TA project for TEC has been successfully implemented. The objective set out for the
  project has been achieved and the results are to benefit the Indian Telecom network. TEC needs similar
  projects in near future to continue institutional strengthening and remain on course to lay down
  standards on new technologies and services that benefit the urban and rural telecom users in the
  country.




                                                   - 35 -

    Annexure 1
    Training attended by TEC /DOT officers under World Bank Loan-TEC Component
S.N. Course                Name of the Participated     Date & Venue      Training conducted
                           Officers with Designation                      by
 1.  Number Portability    R.R. Mittar, Dir (SW)        9.7.01 to         Lucent Technologies
     and other advances in P.K. Nag, ADG (VI)           20.7.01= 12 days  USA
     circuit switching     Balram Sharma, AD (SS)       New Jersey,
     technologies          P.P Upadhyay, AD (SW)        Chicago, USA
 2.  Personnal             Asit Kadyan Dir (VI)         23.7.01 to        Lucent
     Communication         U.K. Kedia, ADG (VV)         6.8.01=15 days    Technologies,
     System                Anuj Jain, AD (VV)                             USA
                           A.D.Mazoomdar, AD (NR)       New Jersey,
                                                        California
                                                        Chicago (USA)
 3.  IMT-2000              A.R. Kesavalu, DIR (SR)      23.8.01 to        Qualcomm
                           R.K. Sharma, ADG (NW)        3.9.01= 12 days   USA
                           D.C. Sharma, AD (NW)         San Diego,
                           Anil Gupta, AD (NW)          California, USA
 4.  LMDS                  Kulwant Singh, ADG(NR)       27.8.01 to        Nera (I)
                           P.K. Dhingra, ADG (R)        7.9.01=12 days    Norway
                           L.P. Singh, ADG (R)          Bergen, Norway

 5.  Intelligent           J.L.Agarwal, ADG (VI)        26.11.01 to       Alcatel
     Network System        Prithpal Singh, ADG (VI)     7.12.01           France
                           Yogesh Kumar, ADG (SE)       12 days
                           Som Dutt, ADG (SW)           Lannion, France
 6.  DWDM                  Ashwani Kumar Dir (T)        10.12.01 to       Tellabs
                           Manjit Singh ADG (TL)        21.12.01          Denmark
                           SudershanSingh, ADG (NRC)    Denmark
                           Pyare Lal, ADG (TL)
 7.  SMPS Power Plant      F.R. Tirkey Dir (TP)         21.1.2002 to      RTP
     and VRLA Batteries    R.K. Sharma AD (TP)          2.2.2002          Australia
                           B.D. Chhabra AD (TP)
                           S.D. Heralgi AD (WR)         Australia
 8.  Remote fibre          Radhey Raman ADG             18.2.2002 to      (i) Perkin Elmer
     management and        R.C. Ralhan ADG TEC          01.03.2002        Optoelectronics U.K.
     monitoring systems    S.R. Bhasin AD TEC           ( 2 weeks)
     WDW, DWDM             R.K. Malik ADG TEC           U.K. & Italy      (ii) Nicotra Sistemi
     Optical Fiber         P.P. Sharma AD TEC                             Spa, Italy
 9.  Converged Networks    R.R. Mittar, Dir (SW)       23.9.02 to 7.10.02 Siemens
                           Ashutosh Pandey, Dir (VI)   Germany
                           P.K. Singh, Dire (ID)
                           P.K. Thakur, Dir (TPT)
                           R.A. Meena, ADET (SW)
                           R.V.S. Yadav, AD (SW)




                                                - 36 -

  Annexure 2

S.No     Name of the Officer         Duration (In days)          Venue    Participation in
 1   C.V. Rajan, Adviser (T),  25.04.2001 to 28.04.2001=4    Shanghai     PT SuperComm
     DOT                                                     China        2001 Asia 2001
 2   I.S. Sastry, DDG (S)      18.2.2002 to 01.03.2002=13    Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 3   D.C. Gupta, DDG(N)        10.12.2002 to 13.12.2002= 4   California,  Official
                                                             USA          Developer
 4   C.R. Iyer, AD(N)          10.12.2002 to 13.12.2002= 4   California,  Conference of the
                                                             USA          Bluetooth SIG
 5   Ashwani Kumar , Dir (TL)  20.01.2003 to 31.01.2003=12   Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 6   R.K. Siddartha, Dir (NT)  27.01.2003 to 31.01.2003=4    Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 7   Rajeshwar Dayal, Dir      10.3.2003 to 14.3.2003=5      Netherlands  International
                                                                          Conference of
                                                                          "WLAN
                                                                          Congress" and
                                                                          "Bluetooth
                                                                          Workshop"
 8   S.C. Malviya, AD          10.3.2003 to 14.3.2003=5      Netherlands  International
                                                                          Conference of
                                                                          "WLAN
                                                                          Congress" and
                                                                          "Bluetooth
                                                                          Workshop"
 9   D.C Gupta, DDG(N)         20.05.2003 to 30.05.2003 = 11 Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 10  R.K. Siddhartha, Dir (NT) 16.06.2003 to 20.06.2003=5    Camogli,     ITU-T Meeting
                                                             Italy
 11  P.K. Singh, Dir (ID), TEC 21.07.2003 to 01.08.2003=12   Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 12  I.S. Sastry, DDG (S)      01.09.2003 to 12.09.2003 = 12 Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 13  R.R. Mittar, Dir(SW)      01.09.2003 to 12.09.2003 = 12 Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 14  F.R. Tirkey, Dir (ID)     10.09.2003 to 19.09.2003= 10  Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 15  D.C. Gupta, DDG (N)       22.09.2003 to 03.10.2003 = 12 Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 16  S.K. Malhotra, DDG (T)    21.10.2003 to 31.10.2003 = 11 Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 17  Ashwani Kumar Dir (TL)    21.10.2003 to 31.10.2003 = 11 Geneva       ITU-T Meeting

 18  Asit Kadyan, Dir (VV)     25.10.2003 to 31.10.2003 = 7  Brazil       ITU-T Meeting




                                        - 37 -

(cont.)

 S.No       Name of the Officer         Duration (In days)         Venue  Participation in
  19    Ashok Kumar, DDG (RC)     10.11.2003 to 14.11.2003 = 5  Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   20   R.K. Siddartha, Dir (NT)  12.01.2004 to 16.01.2004 = 5  Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   21   P.K. Singh, Dir (ID)      03.02.2004 to 13.02.2004 = 11 Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   22   R.R. Mitter, Dir (SW)     01.03.2004 to 12.03.2004 = 12 Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   23   F.R. Tirkey, Dir (IC)     10.03.2004 to 19.03.2004 = 10 Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   24   Ashwani Kumar, Dir (TL)   19.04.2004 to 30.04.2004 = 12 Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   25   Rajeshwar Dayal, Dir (M)  19.04.2004 to 23.04.2004 = 5  Moscow    ITU-T Meeting

   26   R.K. Siddartha, Dir (NT)  24.05.2004 to 28.05.2004 = 5  France    ITU-T Meeting

   27   J.R. Gupta, Sr. DDG (TEC) 11.10.2004 to 14.10.2004 = 4  Brazil    ITU-T Meeting

   28   U.K. Srivastava, DDG (T)  04.10.2004 to 08.10.2004 = 5  Brazil    ITU-T Meeting

   29   R.R. Mittar, Dir(SW)      04.10.2004 to 08.10.2004 = 5  Brazil    ITU-T Meeting

   30   Ashwani Kumar, Dir (TL)   29.11.2004 to 03.12.2004 = 5  Geneva    ITU-T Meeting

   31   I.S. Sastry, DDG (S)      7.12.2004 to 17.12.2004 = 12  Geneva    ITU-T Meeting




                                           - 38 -

Annexure 3
         Specific improvements in TEC GRs/Standards due to trainings/meetings/study
                        tours undertaken under World Bank programme



Sl. no.    Training/Seminar/         Details of improvements
           ITU-T Study Group
           meetings
Training
    1      Latest trends in SMPS     1. Lightening and surged protection in SMPS power plants firmed up.
           Power Plant, VRLA         2. Micro-processor based control of SMPS power plants introduced.
           Battery, Lightning/Surge 3. Remote monitoring and supervision of power plants introduced.
           Protection, Earthing &    A new GR for centralized monitoring/control of power plants and
           Centralised Control &     peripherals has been prepared.
           Monitoring techniques     A separate GR for high discharge applications has been prepared.
                                     New features added in GR-
                                     - modularity and expandability
                                     - specification of both Float rectifiers and Inverters in SMPS design for
                                     improved parameters and performance.
    2      Optical fibre, remote     Based on the information on Polarization Mode Dispersion (PMD),
           fibre management &        Fibre monitoring and Chromatic dispersion etc., GRs have been
           monitoring systems        modified and new GRs framed.
           training                  Remote Fibre Test & Monitoring System GR framed.
    3      Number portability and    Improvements in GRs of Large Size Tandem Exchanges - STM-1
           other advances in circuit interfaces added.
           switching technologies    New Interface Requirements for digital exchanges with STM-1
                                     interfaces prepared
    4      Converged networks        Basic understanding of migration from circuit switched to packet
                                     switched networks achieved. Understanding of overview of new
                                     protocols SIP and BICC obtained. GRs for 'Soft Switch for transit
                                     applications', trunk media gateway and 'Signalling Gateway' prepared
                                     using the knowledge acquired being used to introduce IP based TAX in
                                     Indian network. Two new GRs on Line Media Gateway and Soft Switch
                                     for local applications are being planned in the current year.
    5      Local Multipoint          1. Standards based implementations introduced in GR
           Distribution System       2. Better benchmarking approach learnt for technology.
    6      Advanced DWDM             Based on the experience, 32 Channel and 80 channel DWDM GRs
           technology                prepared with state of the art features like Gigabit Ethernet transport
                                     over Optical layer.
    7      Intelligent Network       GR for IN Systems and Services for GSM developed based on the
           system                    training received.
    8      IMT-2000                  New GRs issued incorporating the latest features for -
                                     1.     CDMA 2000 1x radio network,
                                     2.     MSC based Core network for CDMA 2000 1x
                                     3.     Packet Core network for CDMA 2000 1x, EV-DO network and
                                            remote stations for CDMA 2000 1x.
    9      Personal communication    GR framed for General Packet Radio Service for GSM.
           systems




                                              - 39 -

(cont.)
ITU-T Study Group                   Details of improvements
meetings
       1    Study Group 15 meetings The achievements have been-
                                    (i) Based on Indian contribution, standardization of Free Space Optics
                                    (FSO) has also been taken up. TEC India is having the editorship for new
                                    Recommendation G.fso.
                                    (ii) Based on TEC contribution, the need to include CWDM rings and
                                    linear-chain applications have been accepted. The Recommendation
                                    G.695 has been amended in that light. TEC has been the Correspondence
                                    leader towards arriving at agreement about the text for revision. The
                                    modified Recommendation G.695 is being tabled for discussion in Sept 28
                                    to Oct. 3 2004 in Cambridge UK.
                                    (iii) Based on TEC contribution, existing Rec. G.671 has been amended to
                                    include CWDM OADM device characteristics. TEC has been the
                                    Correspondence leader for arriving at agreement about the text for
                                    revision. The modified Recommendation G.671 is being tabled for
                                    discussion in Sept 28 to Oct. 3 2004 in Cambridge UK.
                                    (iv) A new Recommendation on special fibre for broadband access
                                    applications was proposed by TEC and the same has been accepted. The
                                    Recommendation in under progress after April 2004 meeting.
       2    Study Group 5 meetings  i) Based on the work done and study conducted in TEC in respect of
                                    providing sufficient immunity from GSM interference to the telephone
                                    instruments, a modification in the Performance Criteria in the ITU-T
                                    Rec. K.49 had been proposed. The GR on telephone instrument was
                                    revised to incorporate the suggested modification in K.49 and the same
                                    was implemented to make analogue telephones free from GSM
                                    interference. This has been done first time in the world. TEC has been
                                    entrusted to draft the revised specification.
                                    iii) Accordingly, the protection clause of K.49 has also been incorporated
                                    in other GRs of customer premises equipment like CDMA IFWT.
                                    iv) In framing of new questions for ITU SG-5 for the new study period,
                                    the wordings of a new question "/5  Home Networks" was amended
                                    based on the TEC, India contribution. Accordingly, interference studies
                                    related to 2.4 GHz band pertaining to Wi Fi and Bluetooth personal area
                                    networking and cordless telephones were started in TEC and will
                                    eventually lead to new GRs on the subject.
       3    Study Group 11 meetings ITU has been asked to prepare guidelines for the migration to packet
                                    based networks for the implementation of Next Generation Networks
                                    (NGN). Such a guideline will be helpful to all the countries in deciding
                                    the migration to NGN. This suggestion of TEC has been approved by the
                                    Study Group 11 and TSAG. ITU will take up this Question in the
                                    forthcoming WTSA-04, in October 2004.
       4    Study Group 13 meetings ITU-T has been requested to take up the standardization of layer 2 MPLS
                                    VPNs, which currently has many mutually conflicting RFC standards
                                    from IETF. ITU-T has in turn asked for the time frame for
                                    standardization from IETF and has expressed their keenness to
                                    standardize the same. The MPLS VPN GR has been modified in view of
                                    the knowledge gained during attendance in the SG meetings.




                                              - 40 -

(cont.)
 Seminar/ Conferences               Details of improvements
       1     Official Developers    It gave a road map for developing GRs on presently talked about
             conference of the      broad band Wireless Access (Wi Max). The better understanding of
             Bluetooth SIG          the Wireless Networking was specifically utilized for 
       2     Conference on Wireless 1. An educational project on Wireless Networking was taken up with
             LAN                       the revised GR/specifications to implement 802.11b Wireless
                                       LAN in TEC building. The experience is very useful in providing
                                       technical support for the tendering of Wi Fi equipment for
                                       BSNL/MTNL and testing and validation of the same.
                                    2. Studies related to range and data rate of Wi Fi and Bluetooth
                                       technology gave useful insight for providing expert comments in
                                       various committees formed for the purpose namely.
                                    3. Implementation Mission Group (IMG) on "Wireless Networking
                                       and New Generation Terminal Initiatives"




                                              - 41 -

Annex 8.3 - ICR Report from DOT - HQ

The DOT - HQ component was small in size, and consisted of a rural telecom study and a number of
training courses. The rural study was undertaken in September 2004 and completed in April 2005. The
Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad was contracted to carry out the study on Accelerated
provision of Rural Telecommunication services in India.   The objective of the study was to develop and
assess policy and regulatory options for the rapid expansion of rural communications in India, taking into
account key factors including (a) economics of rural Telecommunications; (b) development in
telecommunications technology and (c) content development. This study has informed the discussion on
how to improve the achievement of rural coverage.




                                                   - 42 -

Annex 8.4 - ICR Report from TRAI




                     TELECOM REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF INDIA




Evaluation of the TRAI Component of the World Bank aided Telecommunication Sector Reform Technical

                                         Assistance Project


                                        (Loan No. 4555-IN)




                                    A-2/14, Safdarjung Enclave,


                                        New Delhi -110029




                                               - 43 -

                  Objective of the Telecom Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
                                              (Loan No.4555-IN)

The overall objective of the project was to strengthen the elements of the policy and regulatory environment
of the telecommunication sector in India to promote private investment and competition in the
telecommunication sector in India.

The World Bank had approved a loan of US$ 62.0 million for the project. The Loan Agreement for this
project was signed on 11.8.2000 and the loan became effective from 29.8.2000. The closing date of the
loan was 31.12.2004.

Objective of the TRAI component of the Project

Objective of the TRAI component was to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the TRAI to regulate
the telecommunication sector and to perform its functions under the TRAI Act including:

(a)     carrying out consultative studies on regulatory issues, including, inter alia, regulatory
infrastructure, sector liberalization, spectrum management, licensing and inter-connection issues,
development network and services, convergence, network access, universal service obligations, quality of
service, customer satisfaction and fostering fair competition, and

(b)     provision of training to TRAI staff.

Funds allocated for the TRAI component

Out of the total loan amount of US$ 62.0 million, US$ 4.5 million (approx Rs.19.35 crore @ US$ =Rs.43)
was initially allocated for TRAI which was subsequently revised by the MOF(DEA) and the World Bank
to US$ 2.5 million (approx Rs.10.75 crore) on the basis of review and taking into account the loan closing
date. In the revised allocation, US$ 1.5 million was for consultancies and US$ 1.0 million for training. In
addition, there was a provision of 10% of the original allocation towards GOI contribution (Rs.1.94 crore)
for the TRAI component.

Actual Implementation of the TRAI component and the Benefits Gained

Since its inception under the TRAI, Act, 1997, as amended by the TRAI (Amendment) Act, 2000, TRAI
has submitted its Recommendations on several issues relating to telecommunications including
broadcasting and cable services to the Government. Policy Guidelines or Licenses have been issued by the
Government based on such Recommendations. TRAI has played a catalytic role in the fast growth of the
telecommunication sector in the country. A number of policy initiatives were taken by TRAI to transform
the telecom sector including broadcasting and cable services and extend the scope, availability and reach of
these services in India. There has been a phenomenal growth in the telecommunication services in
particular the mobile and Internet services. All this could have been possible in particular due to three
majors steps taken for capacity building in TRAI:

(a)     Conducting Studies on regulatory issues either in house or through outsourcing by engaging
consultants,
(b)     Organizing seminars/ workshops on regulatory issues with the service providers, consumers and
other stakeholders,
(c)     Provision of training to TRAI officials on technical and regulatory issues.



                                                     - 44 -

         The outsourcing of consultative studies on regulatory issues, holding of seminars and provision of
training to TRAI officials were largely funded by the World Bank under the Telecommunication Sector
Reform Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 4555 -IN) during the period 2000-2004. The World Bank
assistance proved very useful for TRAI as a number of studies on regulatory issues were carried out under
the above project which helped in framing of policy initiatives by TRAI and furnishing of
recommendations on several issues to the Government. These policy initiatives helped in introducing
intense competition among the service providers of telecom services, contributed to the phenomenal growth
of mobile services as well as expansion of basic and Internet services and led to steep reduction in tariff for
various telecom services.

         Immediately after signing of the Loan Agreement in August, 2000, there were problems relating to
identification of the consultants. After introduction of a bill in Parliament for establishment of a larger
body, namely, Convergence Commission of India, the Authority in TRAI also decided to go slow in
utilization of the World Bank funds. These factors led to slow utilization of the World Bank funds in the
initial years. However, in the subsequent years, the allocated World Bank funds were utilized to the
maximum. 33 Consultancies including seminars and workshops have been completed by TRAI under the
above World Bank loan. List of the completed Studies is placed at Annexure -I .

          Under the training component, TRAI officials attended 32 international training courses
/seminars on telecommunications and telecom regulation/infrastructure regulation. List of such trainings is
placed at Annexure II. The trainings /seminars provided valuable inputs to the officials on international
trend and practices and helped them in developing the policy framework to address the various issues
which arise in regulating the telecom sector including the broadcasting and cable services. The trainings
have also proved to be useful for the officials in organizing and participating effectively in the consultative
process for the Authority, both through preparation of consultation papers and in analysing the comments
received from the stakeholders during the Open House Discussions as well as the written comments
received through mails. TRAI's endeavour is to impart diverse skills among its officials to equip them for
macro level policy framing and for handling of a large mass of techno-economic operating details relevant
for implementation and monitoring of policies.

World Bank's performance during implementation of the TRAI component of the project

World Bank's performance during implementation of the project was very effective and co-ordial. The
World Bank team provided their prompt support in identification of consultants, in according their
approval to the TORs as well as to the proposals for appointing the selected consultants and also in
providing reimbursements to the claim applications. All reporting requirements during implementation of
the project were met by TRAI as per schedule. The visits made by the World Bank Missions also proved to
be very useful in obtaining Bank's guidance in actual implementation of the project.




                                                     - 45 -

 ANNEXURE -I


 CONSULTANCIES/ STUDIES ( as of 31st December, 2004)

 Following studies including seminars and workshops were completed under the World Bank
  project :

1.     Regulatory issues relating to Access Service Provision by Cable T.V.Operators (Consultant- Mr.
       Knud Eric Skouby of Demmark)
2.     Licensing for Converged Services ( Consultant  Mr. Chris Zull of Australia)
3.     Affordability of Telecommunication Services ( Consultant- NCAER, New Delhi )
4.     Study on Interconnection Benchmarking Rates for India (Consultant- M/s OVUM, U.K.)
5.     Study on Accounting Separation ( Consultant-M/s A.F.Ferguson)
6.     Study on Cost of Capital ( Consultant- CRISIL)
7.     Study on Quality of Service of Basic and Cellular Services ( Consultant- IMRB, New Delhi)
8.     Short consultancy on estimation of ADC/IUC based on forward looking LRIC and other models
       (Consultant  M/s ANALYSYS Consulting Ltd., U.K)
9.     Short consultancy on Implementation of Interconnection Usage Charge (IUC) Regime in India
       (Consultant  Mr. Edgardo Sepulveda, Canada)
10.    Competion Seminar - Seminar was organised on 6-7, October,2003 by TERI on behalf of TRAI
11.    Mergers & Acquisitions in the Telecom Industry: Lessons from other countries (Consultant- M/s
       ICRA Advisory Services Ltd.)
12.    Development of User Specific Application Software for comparison of tariff plans in telephony in
       India (Consultant- M/s TERI )
13.    Consultancy and Workshop on Broadband Technologies and related regulatory issues  Workshop
       was organised by ICRIER on behalf of TRAI on 29th and 30th January, 2004. (Consultant -Mr.
       Christropher Stanford Beale)
14.    Study on Spectrum Policy : Efficient Utilization, Management and Pricing (Consultant-M/s Aegis
       System Ltd., U.K.)
15.    Consultancy for advising TRAI to finalize Recommendations/Regulations/Tariff Orders on Cable
       TV Services (Consultant-M/s Media Partners Asia Ltd.)
16.    Study on assessment of monthly cable rate and revenue share arrangement between Broadcasters,
       MSOs and local cable operators (Consultant-M/s IMRB, New Delhi)
17.     Follow-up Study to finalize Recommendations/Regulations/Tariff Orders on Cable TV Services
       (Consultant-M/s Media Partners Asia Ltd.)
18.    Study on Guidelines for Competition in a Multi-service, Multi-operator Network: (Consultant- M/s
       Mc Kinsey & Co)
19.     Study on Quality of Service of Basic and Cellular Services (Consultant  M/s IMRB, New Delhi)
20.    Implementation of ISO 9001: 2000 Quality Management (Consultant- M/s RITES)
21.    Number Portability (Consultant  M/s OVUM, UK)
22.    Directory Enquiry (Consultant- M/s K.M.D. Consultants)
23.    Study on growth of Internet ( Consultant -Prof. Dheeraj Sanghi, IIT, Kanpur)
24.    Study of issues relating to Migration from Ipv4 to Ipv6 in the country (Consultant  Mr. Latif
       Ladid, Luxumburg,)
25.    Study on auditing of Billing and Charging ( Consultant- M/S TUV Suddeutshland India Pvt. Ltd,
       jointly with M/s BABT, UK)
26.    Short Consultancy on Spectrum Policy ( 2nd Study) (Consultant- M/s Aegis System Ltd., UK)

                                                   - 46 -

27.    International Trend on Digitalisation of Cable Network ( Consultant- M/s Media Partners Asia
       Ltd.)
28.    Digitalisation of Cable Network (Technical and Costing) (Consultant- M/s Ernst & Young)
29.    International Trend on Satellite Radio (Consultant- M/s Telecom Strategies Inc Ltd. , USA
30.    Development of User Specific Application Software for comparison of tariff plans (2nd Study)
       (Consultant- M/s TERI)
31.    Short training -cum- consultancy on `Study of Mobile Services Growth in China' (Consultant 
       Mr.Duncan Clerk )
32.    Short training cum- consultancy on Spectrum related issues (Consultant  Mr.David Sallant)
33.    Short Consultancy on Study of IPLC/DLC in India (Consultant  M/s Ernst & Young)

 Note: Item No.12 and 30 have been combined in the Utilization report sent earlier




                                                  - 47 -

ANNEXURE-II
Telecommunication Sector Reform TA Project  Loan No 4555-IN
Training Status as on 31.12.2004

 Sl.                                       No. of       Duration & Venue         Training Conducted by
 No       Course                           Officials
                                           deputed
 (1)                    (2)                   (3)                  (4)                      (5)
  1.    Core Training Programme on             3      04.12.2000 to 15.12.2000   SAFIR, World Bank and
        Infrastructure Regulations and                Srilanka                   TERI
        Reforms
  2.    Training Course on Telecom             3      11.03.2001 to 16.03.2001   Delf University of
        Reforms Policy Implementation                 (Copenhagen, Denmark)      Technology, LIRNE
        through Effective Regulation                                             NET
  3.    Telecommunication Regulatory           3      23.04.2001 to 27.04.2001   Inter-Connect
        Master Classes: 2000-01                       Bath, U.K.                 Communications  Bath,
                                                                                 U.K.
  4.    Telecommunication Regulatory           3      21.05.2001 to 25.05.2001   Inter-Connect
        Master Classes: 2000-01                       Bath, U.K.                 Communications  Bath,
                                                                                 U.K.
  5.    First Meeting of the Experts Group     1      09.07.2001 to 10.07.2001   I.T.U
        on WTPF  IP Telephony                        Switzerland
  6.    ITS 12th Eurepean Regional             2      01.09.2001 to 03.09.2001   International
        Conference                                    Dublin-Ireland             Telecommunication
                                                                                 Society
  7.    Telecom Reform: Policy                 2      09.09.2001 to 15.09.2001   LIRNE, NET
        Development and Strategies of                 Rabat, Morocco
        Regulation
  8.    Telecommunication Policy               2      10.09.2001 to 21.09.2001   TEMIC
        Regulation & Transition                       Ottawa-Canada
        Management
  9.    Training Programme on                  4      08.10.2001 to 19.10.2001   TERI, World Bank &
        Infrastructure Regulation & Reforms           Agra - India               SAFIR
 10.    Telecom Regulatory Master Classes:     3      22.10.2001 to 26.10.2001   Inter-Connect
        2001-02                                       Bath-U.K.                  Communication
                                                                                 Bath-U.K.
 11.    Telecom Regulatory Master Classes      3      19.11.2001 to 23.11.2001   Inter-Connect
        2001-02                                       Bath-U.K.                  Communication
                                                                                 Bath-U.K.
 12.    International Training Programme       3      14.01.2002 to 25.01.2002   University of Florida ,
        on Utilities Regulations and                  Florida  US               USA and the World
        Transition Management                                                    Bank
 13.    Training Programme on                  4      15.9.2002 to 23.9.2002     TERI, World Bank &
        Infrastructure Regulation & Reforms           Goa -India                 SAFIR
 14.    International Training Programme       4      9.6.2003 to 20.6.03        University of Florida &
        on Utility Regulation & Strategy              Florida, USA               World Bank
 15.    Telecommunication Regulatory           4      16.6.2003 to 20.6.2003     Inter Connect
        Master Classes (2003)                         Bath, UK                   Communications, UK




                                               - 48 -

(cont.)
  Sl.                                      No. of       Duration & Venue         Training Conducted by
  No     Course                            Officials
                                           deputed
   (1)                  (2)                   (3)                   (4)                     (5)
   16.  Telecommunication Regulatory           2      14.7.2003 to 18.7.2003     Inter Connect
        Master Classes (2003)                         Bath, UK                   Communications, UK
   17.  SAFIR's Core Training Programme        2      3.8.2003 to 11.8.2003      SAFIR, TERI & World
        on Infrastructure Regulations and             Maranwala, Sri Lanka       Bank
        Reforms
   18.  Training Course on Telecom             4      Koege, Denmark             LIRNE.NET and the
        Reforms: Policy Implementation                                           University of Delf
        through Effective Regulation
   19.  Telecommunication Regulatory           7      17.11.2003 to 21.11.2003   Inter Connect
        Master Classes (2003)                         Bath, UK                   Communications, UK
   20.  International Training Programme       1      12.1.2004 to 23.1.2004     University of Florida &
        on Utility Regulation and Strategy            Florida, USA               World Bank
   21.  Training Visit with Malaysian          3      11.2.2004 to 13.2.2004     Malaysian
        Communication and Multimedia                  Kualalumpur, Malaysia      Communication and
        Commission (MCMC)                                                        Multimedia
                                                                                 Commission (MCMC)
   22.  TEMIC's programme on                   4      15.3.2004 to 26.3.2004     Telecommunication
        Telecommunication Policy,                     Montreal, Canada           Executive Management
        Regulation and Transition                                                Institute of Canada
        Management                                                               (TEMIC)
   23.  Telecommunication Regulatory           4      29.3.04 to 2.4.04          Interconnect
        Master Classes, March, 2004                   Bath, UK                   Communications, UK
   24.  Master Classes on Numbering Plan       1      15.2.04 to 19.2.04         Interconnect
                                                      Bath, UK                   Communications, UK
   25.  International Training Programme       1      3.5.2004 to 14.5.2004      Australian
        on Telecommunications (Spectrum               Canberra, Australia        Communications
        Management)                                                              Authority
   26.  International Training Programme       1      27.4.2004 to 6.5.2004      Australian
        on Telecommunications                         Melbourne, Australia       Communications
        (Regulations of                                                          Authority
        Telecommunications)
   27.  Telecommunication Regulatory           5      14.6.2004 to 18.6.2004     Interconnect
        Master Classes (2004-05)                      Bath, UK                   Communications
   28.  TEMIC's ICT Development and            2      13.9.04 to 24.9.04         TEMIC
        Management Programme                          Montreal, Canada
   29.  SAFIR Core Training Programme          3      3.10.2004 to 11.10.2004    SAFIR, World Bank
        on Infrastructure Regulation and              Bhurban, Pakistan          and TERI
        Reforms
   30   Telecommunication Regulatory           4      18.10.2004 to 22.10.2004   Interconnect
        Master Classes                                Bath, UK                   Communications
   31.  TEMIC's course on Rural and            3      08.11.2004 to 19.11.04     Telecom Executive
        Wireless Management Programme                 Montreal, Canada           Management Institute
                                                                                 of Canada (TEMIC)
   32.  Telecommunication Regulatory           6      22.11.2004 to 26.11.2004   Interconnect
        Master Classes                                Bath, UK                   Communications



                                               - 49 -

CONSULTANCIES CONDUCTED BY TRAI UNDER THE WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 4555 IN
AND THEIR UTILIZATION


    Consultancy including Workshops &            Utilization
    Seminars
1.  Study on Accounting Separation                Study was utilized for finalizing the Accounting Separation
    (Consultant-M/s A.F.Ferguson)                 Regulation for telecommunication services.
2.  Study on Cost of Capital (Consultant- M/s     Study was carried out to decide the rate of returns to be given
    CRISIL)                                       while finalizing pricing and Interconnect User Charges (IUC) for
                                                  the telecom industry and the quantum of Access Deficit Charges
                                                  (ADC). The inputs received through the study have been used to
                                                  standardize the methodology to estimate the cost of capital.
3.  Study on Quality of Service of Basic and      Study was to assist TRAI in its function to monitor the quality of
    Cellular Services (Consultant- IMRB, New      service provided by the service providers and to ensure the quality
    Delhi)                                        of service. The consultant carried out a detailed objective
                                                  assessment of the quality service provided by the Basic and
                                                  Cellular Service Providers against the parameters laid down in the
                                                  Quality of Service Regulation for a period of four quarters
                                                  (October, 2001 to September, 2002) and also the subjective
                                                  assessment of customer satisfaction survey.
4.  Short consultancy on estimation of ADC/IUC    Through this study, the consultants submitted a software as well
    based on forward looking LRIC and other       as a model for calculation of IUC /ADC in India, which was
    models (Consultant  M/s ANALYSYS             utilized for finalizing the IUC Regulation
    Consulting Ltd., U.K)
5.  Short consultancy on Implementation of        The report was utilized for finalizing the IUC Regulation.
    Interconnection Usage Charge (IUC) Regime
    in India (Consultant  Mr. Edgardo
    Sepulveda, Canada)
6.  Competition Seminar - Seminar was             Utilized for framing the recommendation on DLC and IPLC
    organised on 6-7, October, 2003 by TERI on    competition issues and access to landing stations.
    behalf of TRAI
7.  Mergers & Acquisitions in the Telecom         The report was utilized for finalizing the Recommendations on
    Industry: Lessons from other countries        Mergers and Acquisitions in the telecom industry in India.
    (Consultant- M/s ICRA Advisory Services
    Ltd.)
8.  Consultancy and Workshop on Broadband         A detailed recommendation on Growth of Internet and Broadband
    Technologies and related regulatory issues   was sent to the Government and the Government issued the
    Workshop was organised by ICRIER on           Broadband Policy, 2004.
    behalf of TRAI on 29th and 30th January,
    2004. (Consultant -Mr. Christropher Stanford
    Beale)
9.  Consultancy for advising TRAI to finalize     The study helped TRAI to formulate its recommendations on
    Recommendations/Regulations/Tariff Orders     issues relating to broadcasting and distribution of TV channels.
    on Cable TV Services (Consultant-M/s Media
    Partners Asia Ltd.)
10. Study on assessment of monthly cable rate and In the absence of structured data, this limited survey helped TRAI
    revenue share arrangement between             to focus on relevant issues relating to Broadcasting and Cable
    Broadcasters, MSOs and local cable operators  Services.
    (Consultant -M/s IMRB, New Delhi)




                                                 - 50 -

(cont.)
       Consultancy including Workshops &            Utilization
       Seminars
 11.  Follow-up Study to finalize                    The study helped us to formulate TRAI's recommendations on
      Recommendations/Regulations/Tariff Orders      issues relating to broadcasting and distribution of TV channels.
      on Cable TV Services (Consultant-M/s Media
      Partners Asia Ltd.)
 12.  Study on Guidelines for Competition in a       The report provides a comprehensive framework pertaining to
      Multi-service, Multi-operator Network          various competition related issues relevant for India. The case
      (Consultant- M/s Mc Kinsey & Co)               studies/references given in the report are used to know the
                                                     International Practices on a number of regulatory issues.
 13.  Study on Spectrum Policy: Efficient            Study was utilized for finalizing the detailed recommendations on
      Utilization, Management and Pricing            Spectrum Issues.
      (Consultant-M/s Aegis System Ltd., U.K.)
 14.  Development of User Specific Application       Results of the analysis on comparison of Tariff Plans given by the
      Software for comparison of tariff plans   in   consultant was posted on TRAI's website for information of the
      telephony in India - (Consultant- M/s TERI)    consumers of Mumbai and Delhi.
      Phase 1 & 2
 15.  Study on Quality of Service of Basic and       Study was to assist TRAI in its function to monitor the quality of
      Cellular Services (Consultant  M/s IMRB,      service provided by the service providers and to ensure the quality
      New Delhi)                                     of service. The consultant carried out a detailed objective
                                                     assessment of the quality service provided by the Basic and
                                                     Cellular Service Providers against the parameters laid down in the
                                                     Quality of Service Regulation for a period of four quarters
                                                     (October, 2003 to September, 2004) and also the subjective
                                                     assessment of customer satisfaction survey
 16.  Implementation of ISO 9001: 2000 Quality       TRAI obtained ISO 9001: 2000 certification on its functioning,
      Management: (Consultant- M/s RITES)            procedures and processes.
 17.  Number Portability (Consultant  M/s           Consultant's report was utilized for finalizing Recommendations
      OVUM, UK)                                      on Mobile Number Portability which have been sent to the
                                                     Government.
 18.  Directory Enquiry (Consultant- M/s K.M.D.      Study report was utilized for finalizing Recommendations on
      Consultants)                                   publication of Telephone Directory and Directory Enquiry
                                                     Services already sent to the Government.
 19   Study on growth of Internet (Consultant -Prof. A detailed recommendation on growth of Internet and Broadband
      Dheeraj Sanghi, IIT, Kanpur)                   was sent to the Government and the Government issued the
                                                     Broadband Policy, 2004.
 20.  Study of issues relating to Migration from     A detailed Recommendation on Migration from Ipv4 to Ipv6 was
      Ipv4 to Ipv6 in the country (Consultant  Mr.  sent to the Government.
      Latif Ladid, Luxemburg)
 21.  Study on Auditing of Billing and Charging      Consultant's report was utilized for finalizing Regulation on Code
      (Consultant- M/S TUV Suddeutshland India       of Practice for Metering and Billing Accuracy.
      Pvt. Ltd, jointly with M/s BABT, UK)
 22.  Short Consultancy on Spectrum Policy           Study was utilized for finalizing the detailed recommendations on
      (2nd Study) : (Consultant- M/s Aegis System    Spectrum Issues.
      Ltd., UK)
 23.  International Trend on Digitalisation of Cable Report was utilized for finalizing TRAI's Recommendations on
      Network (Consultant- M/s Media Partners        Digitalisation of CableTV.
      Asia Ltd.)




                                                    - 51 -

(cont.)
       Consultancy including Workshops &           Utilization
       Seminars
 24.  Digitalisation of Cable Network (Technical    Report was utilized for finalizing TRAI's Recommendations on
      and Costing)  (Consultant- M/s Ernst &       Digitalisation of Cable TV.
      Young)
 25.  International Trend on Satellite Radio       Inputs received through the study were utilized for finalizing
      (Consultant- M/s Telecom Strategies Inc Ltd.  TRAI's Recommendations on Satellite Radio.
      , USA)
 26.  Short training -cum- consultancy on `Study    Study was utilized to obtain inputs on growth of mobile services in
      of Mobile Services Growth in China'           China for comparative analysis with the growth trend in cellular
      (Consultant  Mr.Duncan Clerk )               services in India.
 27.  Short training cum- consultancy on           Study was utilized for finalizing the detailed recommendations on
      Spectrum related issues (Consultant          Spectrum Issues
      Mr.David Sallant)
 28.  Short Consultancy on Study of IPLC/DLC in     The report of the study as given by the Consultant was used to
      India                                         Benchmark the tariffs obtained in the key Asia-Pacific markets in
      (Consultant  M/s Ernst & Young)              respect of IPLC & DLC. Further, the International Regulatory
                                                    Practices governing Regulation of IPLC & DLC sector as given
                                                    in the report was utilized in the framing of Tariff Policy for these
                                                    services in India
 29.  Regulatory issues relating to Access Service  Study was conducted to assess the suitability of Cable TV network
      Provision by Cable T.V. Operators             for voice telephony. Consultant recommended that the existing
      (Consultant- Mr. Knud Eric Skouby of          Cable TV network in India is not suitable for voice telephony. On
      Denmark)                                      the basis of Consultant's report and its own analysis, Authority
                                                    decided not to make any recommendation on the subject.
 30.  Licensing for Converged Services              Study was conducted in the context of Draft Convergence Bill,
      (Consultant  Mr. Chris Zull of Australia)    which was to be laid in the Parliament. The main features of the
                                                    report were forwarded to the Government. In addition, the report
                                                    has also been utilized in framing recommendations on Unified
                                                    Licensing.
 31.  Study on Affordability of Telecommunication   Report of the Consultant was utilized for Tariff Rebalancing
      Services (Consultant- NCAER, New Delhi)       exercise conducted by TRAI.
 32.  Study on Interconnection Benchmarking         Objective of the study was to gather international experience on
      Rates for India (Consultant- M/s OVUM,        interconnection benchmarking rates to work out such rates for
      U.K.)                                         India.




                                                   - 52 -

Annex 8.5 - ICR Report from TDSAT

  Implementation Completion Report of the Telecom Dispute Settlement and Appellate Tribunal on
  the closed Telecommunication Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project of the World Bank for
                                                     India

(i)     Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation, operation experience and impact :

Under the Telecommunication Sector Reforms Technical Assistance Project of the World Bank for India
(Loan No.4555-IN) technical assistance to the extent of US $0.56 million was approved by the World
Bank Mission for strengthening the institutional capabilities of this Tribunal in the areas of adjudication
and dispute settlement mechanism. The time frame for implementation of the project was four years i.e.
from 1st July 2000 to 30th June, 2004 which was later on extended to 31st December, 2004.

The assistance was utilized for (i) purchase of goods and setting up of TDSAT Computerized LAN based
Reference Library; (ii) Study Tour of Hon'ble Chairperson, Members of the Tribunal for familiarization
with the telecom regulatory environment of different countries of the World, including in the areas of
adjudication of telecom cases, and training Programme for senior functionaries of the Tribunal and (iii)
holding of International and National Seminars on subjects relating to Telecom Dispute Settlement
Mechanism. An amount of Rs. 164.75 lakhs was incurred by the Tribunal for implementation of the
above mentioned components of the project.

The brief particulars of the activities undertaken by the Tribunal under the Project are as under:-

Goods/Setting up of Computerized LAN Based Reference Library

The main objective for setting up of Reference Library was to assist the Hon'ble Chairperson and Members
of the Tribunal in proper sourcing material for speedy and efficacious disposal of cases fixed before
TDSAT. The components of the reference library included-
        (a)      Paper and computer based repository of relevant Indian telecom regulations; providing
                 proper search and indexing methods available for easy navigation of the reference
                 material;
        (b)      Paper and computer based documentation of relevant repository of telecom regulatory
                 cases in India as relevant in adjudicating TDSAT cases;
        (c)      Paper and computer based documentation of references to telecom regulations and cases in
                 other developing and developed countries as may be relevant for adjudicating TDSAT
                 cases.

The Reference Library is useful for reference purposes and for ascertaining legal precedents for clarity of
the issues coming up before the Tribunal. The Tribunal has purchased law books and other books relating
to various subjects in telecom sector for its library.

The Tribunal has also developed its website i.e www.tdsat.nic.in which contains information about the
TDSAT and the activities taken up by it from time to time. Important orders passed by the Tribunal are
placed on the website so that Counsel/Parties can take the benefit of the same. Other relevant information
about the Tribunal can also be obtained in the TDSAT website. The website now is a repository of all
relevant documents for assistance of advocates as well as stake holders.

Seminars/Consultancy:

The main object of holding of the seminars was to generate the awareness among the consumers about the
functioning of regulatory and adjudicatory bodies in the Telecom Sector in India. The Tribunal organized
two international and three domestic seminars in different parts of the country during the years 2003 and
2004. The underlying principle for organizing the seminars in various parts of the country was to create

                                                     - 53 -

awareness among the various stakeholders and the general public about the dispute settlement mechanism
in telecom, cable and broadcasting sectors and also to create better understating of the role of the Tribunal
among the stake holders and in particular among the members in the legal profession. The feedback that the
Tribunal received in its seminars from various stakeholders was phenomenal which was reflected in the
increase of number of cases and references from the regions where these seminars were organized. The
Tribunal had also appointed a Legal Consultant for assisting the Hon'ble Chairperson and Members of the
Tribunal.

Study tour/Training:

The Hon'ble Chairperson, Members of the Tribunal undertook study tours to various developed and
developing countries to familiarize themselves with the telecom regulatory environment and court system,
particularly in the areas of regulation of telecommunications, cable and broadcasting services, adjudication
of disputes pertaining to these services and hearing of appeals against the orders passed by the regulatory
bodies.

The senior functionaries of the Tribunal were also deputed to undergo training Programmes abroad. The
inputs and the experience gathered by these officials through training were helpful in streamlining the
procedure for processing cases filed before the Tribunal.

It would be pertinent to state that the impact of the project on the functioning of the Tribunal has been very
satisfactory. Through this project the Tribunal has not only been successful in developing its infrastructure
by way of purchase of books for the Library and setting up of LAN based Reference Library but also in
capacity building by way of Study Tours and training. Besides these, organizing of both national and
international Seminars at various places in the country has helped in bringing awareness amongst the
various stakeholders in the telecom sector about the Disputes Resolution Mechanism in the telecom sector
in India and in other countries.

(ii)     Evaluation of the beneficiaries' own performance during evolution and implementation of the
project with special emphasis on lessons learnt that may be relevant in the future.

The performance of TDSAT has been enumerated in the preceding paragraphs. However, during the
course of the implementation of the project, it has been felt that Disputes Resolution Mechanism in the
telecom sector in India needs further strengthening so that administration of Justice is fast and effective.
The process of creating awareness amongst stakeholders and sharing of experience in disputes resolution
methods is a gigantic task and needs to be continued even in the future. Since technological changes are
taking place at a very rapid pace in this sector, the Regulatory and dispute settlement framework has also
to move in step with these changes and it would therefore be necessary for TDSAT to be fully in tune with
the changing environment and keep abreast with the changes that are taking place.

(iii)    Evaluation of the Banks' performance during the evolution and implementation of the project
including the effectiveness of the relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learnt

The performance of the World Bank in this project has been commendable. The members of the Mission
team were extremely supportive and they provided valuable guidance in the implementation of the project.
The relationship with the World Bank during the implementation of the project had been extremely cordial
and helpful.




                                                      - 54 -

    Additional Annex 9. WPC Component, Time Line


       Date     Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
March 99        Draft bidding documents to be supplied in advance: To ensure that the project is ready for
(aide-memoire)  implementation as soon as loan becomes effective, it was agreed that the draft bidding
                documents for the radio spectrum management and monitoring system, a major component of
                the project, will be furnished by WPC to the Bank prior to loan negotiations scheduled for
                June 1999.
January 2000    Consultants have stated working on draft bidding documents: Given that ASMS is a
                major component, consultants will in advance work out technical specifications and
                requirements, and draft bidding documents so as to avoid delay (note: consultants have
                started working).
February 2000   Advice to include a PMC for WPC component: As discussed during appraisal, the mission
(aide-memoire)  reiterated to WPC the need for PMC to assist WPC in smooth implementation of its
                component. This is a major project involving supply with installation and commissioning of
                an integrated spectrum monitoring and management. The project is highly critical for India
                and WPC cannot afford to take any risks that could lead to delays and/or suboptimal project
                implementation. Lastly, although WPC will set up a PIU, WPC's personnel would need
                support of a dedicated team of industry experts working uniquely on the project to ensure the
                success of the project. Therefore, the project provides for a PMC to assist in the procurement
                process including selection, contract negotiations and implementation of spectrum
                management and monitoring system.
March 2000      Delays in appointing consultants to prepare bidding documents: Due to delays of around
(management     eight months in the appointment of consultants to assist WPC in preparing the bidding
letter)         documents, the loan negotiations are yet to take place.
April 2000      Concerns with poor staffing: The IBRD delegation noted that while the key senior staff for
(Minutes of     the PCU and PIUs have been appointed, the skilled staff support for PIU to effectively manage
Negotiation)    the procurement and the implementation of the Spectrum Management component (a major
                component under the project), is not yet in place.
May 2000        Importance of appointing PMC: WPC will need PMC assistance because: this is a first
(Project        project of its kind (integrating spectrum monitoring and management and integrating supply
Appraisal       with installation and commissioning) that WPC will be handling; the project is large
Document)       compared to what WPC has handled in the past; the project is important for India and WPC
                cannot afford to take risks that could lead to delays and/or suboptimal project implementation;
                and the two-stage procurement process adopted for realizing the contract is a complex
                process. Lastly, although WPC will set up a project unit, WPC personnel would continue to
                perform their day-to-day activities and a dedicated team of industry expert, working uniquely
                on the project, will ensure the success of the project. Therefore the project provides for a
                PMC to assist in the procurement process including contract selection of ASMS.




                                                       - 55 -

                                                                                                            (cont.)
       Date       Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
October 2000       Concerns with poor staffing and delays in appointing PMC: The mission noted that a PIU
(aide-memoire)     has been established with a Project Director, Deputy Director General (Finance), an engineer,
                   accounts staff and two clerical staff. It was agreed that the PIU needs to be strengthened by
                   external experts to reduce risks of implementation delays and cost overruns for the following
                   reasons: this is a first project of its kind (integrating spectrum monitoring and management
                   and integrating supply with installation and commissioning) that WPC will be handling; the
                   project is large compared to what WPC has handled in the past; the project is important for
                   India and WPC cannot afford to take risks that could lead to delays and/or suboptimal project
                   implementation; and the two-stage procurement process adopted for realizing the contract is a
                   complex process. The mission agreed to the ToR for the appointment of a PMC to assist PIU.
                   The PMC to be mobilized by January 2001 will assist in the procurement process, including
                   contract administration and implementation of ASMMS.
October 2000       Bidding documents for the procurement of spectrum management and monitoring
                   facilities made available
January 2001       Submission of technical bids for NRSMMS (first stage)
April 2001         Important progress made with procurement, but continued delays: Continued vigilance
(management letter by top management of DOT and TRAI will be very important.
and aide-memoire)  Already a 10-week delay in processing procurement, due to: (a) allowing additional time
                   (five weeks) to meet bidders' requests for extension (b) longer time (five weeks) taken to
                   evaluate three bids. Mission agreed with WPC as follows: (a) WPC will inform the bidders
                   at the time of inviting them for second stage that extension of bidding closing date will not be
                   considered; (b) the project Director and his staff will give highest priority to completing the
                   evaluation in accordance to agreed timetable
August 2001        Published Request for Expressions of Interest for PMC selection
October 2001       First stage evaluation for NRSMMS/ASMS received by the Bank
October 2001       WPC agreed to select PMC by February 2002
(aide-memoire)
June 2002          Delays in appointment of PMC and in ASMS. Project downgraded to "unsatisfactory":
(aide-memoire)     Delegation DOT/WPC informed that PMC selection of consultants to be finalized by June
                   2002. Contract negotiations of ASMS to commence on 06/12/02 and target for signature is
                   07/02/02. The World Bank staff noted the significant delay in processing the NRSMMS
                   subcomponent which is the main factor in the unsatisfactory disbursement profile for the
                   project as a whole.
July 2002          Bank issued clearance to award the ASMS contract
October 2002       Signed contract with ASMMS (NRSMMS) supplier
December 2002      Delay in awarding ASMMS contract and need to address risks of failure namely through
(management letter PMC. The mission noted that although the Bank issued its clearance on 07/15/02 to award
and aide-memoire)  the ASMMS contract to the wining firm recommended by WPC, the contract was not signed
                   until 10/31/02. Engagement of PMC. The project has provided for a PMC to assist WPC in
                   managing this large project component. The appointment of this consultancy is also
                   significantly delayed. To ensure the ASMMS is completed within the revised time schedule
                   and within the contracted cost, we recommend that the PMC should be engaged on an urgent
                   basis in order to commence their assignment by mid-January 2003. There are several risks
                   involved in making transition from a largely paper-based process to the electronic based
                   ASMMS process. Hence the WPC project team, with the assistance of PMC, should identify
                   risks and prepare a risk mitigation action plan to ensure successful functioning of the
                   ASMMS.[...] WPC agreed to have this plan completed and furnish to Bank for review and
                   comments by 02/15/03.




                                                            - 56 -

                                                                                                     (cont.)
       Date      Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
December       Contract with ASMMS (NRSMMS) supplier becomes effective
2002
February 2003  WPC requests extension of vailidity of PMC proposals beyond July 2002: You are aware
               that we are in the advance stage for awarding the contract for PMC. As you know that the
               validity of the proposals of the three technically qualified proposals from the three firms was up
               to 07/15/02.. Therefore we intend asking for extension of validity of proposals for PMC.
February 2003  World Bank notes PMC proposals were submitted one year before, so no need to extend
               validity. Requests WPC to submit, urgently, draft negotiated package for Bank review and
               clearance.
May 2003       Slow disbursement, poor staffing and need to address risks of failure. Need for quarterly
(aide-memoire) progress reports. Implementation Progress upgraded to "satisfactory": Project
               disbursement of only 12.5 percent after three years has been slow , but expected to improve in
               FY04. The main factor relating to this slow disbursement has been the delay in signing the
               contract for the ASMMS system--by far the largest single project component. Since the last
               Bank Telecommunication mission, in November 2002, WPC made progress in making the
               advance payment to the contractor and the contract came effective from 12/23/02. [..] The LC is
               not operative, as the contractor has been requesting several changes to the LC. WPC met with
               the contractor on June3,and 4, 2003 and resolved all out standing issues. The mission noted that
               the first batch of equipment that has passed the pre-shipment factory inspection and acceptance
               test in March 2003 would be shipped by June 15, 2003. Thereafter disbursements are expected
               to progress smoothly. Despite the slow disbursement, the mission noted, that implementation of
               the ASMMS contract is progressing according to the time schedule in the contract. WPC agreed
               to: (a) monitor performance of the contractor in accordance with the time schedule and (b)
               furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports in respect of achievement of activities as per the
               time schedule. The Project Director confirmed that actions have been imitated to recruit all the
               new staff needed to operate the ASMMS at each of the four regional centers. Next mission will
               review the progress in completing this important activity. There are several risks involved in
               making transition from a largely paper based process to the electronic based ASMMS process.
               Hence the WPC project team, with the assistance of PMC, should identify risks and prepare a
               risk mitigation action plan to ensure successful functioning of the ASMMS. In particular, a
               study needs to be undertaken to explore options to address the issue of extended time (six
               months) taken to issue site clearance required to avoid hazards to aviation and obstruction to
               microwave links. WPC agreed to have this plan completed and furnish to Bank for review and
               comments by 09/15/03.
June 2003      Engagement of PM. The project has provided for a PMC to assist WPC in managing this large
(management    project component. The contract with the selected consultancy firm has been signed and we
letter)        expect the consultants to begin work by 07/15/03. To ensure the ASMMS is completed within
               the revised time schedule and within the contracted cost, we recommend that the PIU should be
               staffed on a full-time basis.
June 2003      First shipment from ASMMS arrives in India
August 2003    PMC commences assignment




                                                   - 57 -

                                                                                                       (cont.)
     Date     Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
October 2003   Developments in PMC, need to address continued delays in project implementation, and
(aide-memoire) discussion of partial cancellation of loan: The PMC commenced its assignment on 08/18/03
               and submitted its Inception Report on 09/19/03. [...]. It was agreed that commencing
               09/20/03, PMC would submit monthly reports to WPC which WPC would provide to the
               Bank. [...].The mission noted that the original completion date for NRMMS has to be
               extended due to delays in resolution of several issues. Issues that currently need to be
               addressed to avoid further delay include:
                 l Clearance by WPC of the site survey reports including the acceptance of new tower
                    heights. (Technical clearance has been finalized and is to be conveyed to the contractors)
                 l WPC providing appropriate skilled staff for data entry of classified information.
                 l Commencement of works for e-formatting the database migration
                 l Decision by WPC to proceed with the shipment of equipment based on contractors
                    certificates
                 l The mission discussed these and other issues related to the PIP for the NRMMS and
                    noted that the decision making process in DOT/WPC needs to be organized to respond to
                    project implementation needs in a timely manner to avoid slippages in the revised
                    implementation plan.
               On this basis, the NRMMS would be commissioned by 12/31/04. It was agreed to monitor
               implementation progress on a monthly basis to avoid further slippages. For this purpose,
               DOT agreed to furnish to the Bank monthly NRMMS implementation progress reports
               beginning 09/20/03 to ensure that the implementation remains on track.
               Action : Beginning 09/20/03 WPC to furnish the Bank PMC's monthly implementation
               Progress Report.
               NRMMS Design Augmentation The mission agreed with WPC that the design of the
               NRMMS needs to be modified[...] DOT indicated that its preliminary estimate to augment
               the system to meet these requirements would be about $9 million (approx. Euro 7.0m.). [...]
               Action: By end October 2003, DOT would obtain internal approval to the proposed purchase
               of additional equipment and arrange to furnish the modifications to the main contract to the
               Bank for review and clearance by end November 2003.
               Risk of failure assessment and mitigation planning. The mission noted that the PMC has
               identified several project risks. The mission discussed these risks with PMC and WPC and
               requested that the risk mitigation actions proposed be implemented as quickly as possible.
               Status of implementation of the risk mitigation plan would be included in the monthly
               progress reports. Hence the DOT project team, with the assistance of PMC, should identify
               risks and prepare a risk mitigation action plan by 10/30/03 to ensure successful functioning of
               the NRMMS. Action: By 10/30/03 WPC to furnish risk mitigation action plan to the Bank.
               Funds Utilization and Re-allocation. The following main factors are affecting the utilization
               of project funds: (a) increase in contract price due to depreciation of the US dollar in relation
               to the contract currencies (Euro and the Indian Rupees), (b) limited use by TRAI, and (c) need
               to augment NRMMS component following site surveys by the contractor. The mission
               reviewed these factors with the responsible agencies and developed a reallocation plan. Based
               on this reallocation, savings of $5 million from unallocated category (including about $2
               million from TRAI) could be cancelled immediately.
November       NRMMS progressing well but need continuing monitoring: [...] this is by far the largest
2003           component in the project. We believe that implementation is now on a good foundation with
(management    all the major contracts for equipment and project management in place. Nevertheless, there is
letter)        a continued risk of delay associated with slow approval process within the Department and
               close monitoring will be required to avoid additional delays in project implementation.
               Furthermore, in discussions between the mission and WPC officials it was agreed that WPC
               would furnish to the Bank its plan to mitigate remaining project risks by the end of October
               2003.



                                                      - 58 -

                                                                                                   (cont.)
     Date       Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
January 2004    Request for monthly progress reports: The mission noted that the implementation progress
(aide-memoire)  of the NRMMS is being closely monitored and reviewed regularly at the highest management
                level in DOT to ensure: (a) timely completion of NRMMS and (b) full utilization of the
                project funds. To achieve these objectives, WA agreed to immediately assign the project
                director on a full-time basis as was done up to July 2002 and to strengthen the PIU with
                adequate staff. The mission noted that PIU is yet to give its clearance / approval to the
                contractor in respect of the following key items: (i) system requirement specifications
                document by 12/28/03, (ii) preliminary design review for SHF mobile vehicle by January
                15,2004. The mission discussed these and other issues related to the project implementation
                plan for the NRMMS and noted with the above arrangements the decision making process in
                DOT/WPC would be organized to respond to project implementation needs in a timely
                manner so that the milestones as projected in the project implementation plan are achieved.
                As agreed previously, NRMMS implementation progress will continue to be furnished to the
                Bank on a monthly basis to ensure timely completion of the NRMMS. For this purpose, DOT
                will continue to furnish to the Bank monthly NRMMS implementation progress reports on the
                20th each month.
January 2004    Request for cancellation of $20 million
February 2004   Need to strengthen PIU and decision making capacity in WPC: We are pleased to note
                that with the PMC in place, WPC has been able to resolve a number of accumulated issues
                that have until now hindered the implementation of the NRMMS. With the Wireless Advisor
                agreeing to immediately assign the Project Director on a full-time basis and to strengthen the
                PIU, we believe that the decision making process within DOT/WPC will be improved to
                respond to project implementation needs in a timely manner so that the milestones as
                projected in the NRMMS implementation plan are achieved. In addition, the continued close
                monitoring within the Department would ensure that the NRMMS implementation is
                implemented on time.
March 2004      Cancellation of $20 million is processed
October 2004    NRMMS implementation. The mission noted that the implementation progress of the
(aide-memoire)  NRMMS is being closely monitored and reviewed regularly at the highest management level
                in DOT to ensure timely completion. Based on the current implementation status, the mission
                noted the implementation of NRMMS, with the exception of (i) SHF vehicles and (ii) Jalna
                satellite monitoring station, is likely to be completed by 12/31/04. To ensure achievement of
                the above the planned milestones for each of the remaining four months should be closely
                monitored and achieved. [...]
November        Extension of loan closing date to March 31, 2006
2004
(management
letter)




                                                    - 59 -

                                                                                                      (cont.)
     Date       Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
March 2005      Continued delays in NRSMMS: The mission reviewed and noted with concern the slippage
(aide-memoire)  in the NRSMMS component from targets agreed to in September 2004. The slippage is partly
                due to WPC and partly due to the contractors. Although the ASMS has become operational in
                some stations, the contractors have not handed over a single fully completed station to WPC.
                Some of the key reasons for the slippage include:
                (a) Delays in finalization of land issues and giving access to the contractor to sites at Goa and
                Jalandhar as well as completion of garages at these sites.
                (b) Delays in the resolution of administrative issues for shifting of site at Darjeeling to
                Siliguri.
                (c) Inordinate delays in local supplies and installation at sites by the [local contractor];
                (d) Delays in submission and finalization of preliminary design documents for the SHF
                (MMS) and SHF fixed monitoring facility at Jalna by the prime contractor.
                The mission reviewed these issues with WPC, PMC and the contractors and noted that based
                on PMC's assessment and its involvement in implementation at the fixed sites, V/ UHF
                vehicles and the ASMS are estimated to be completed latest by 06/30/05. Contractors agreed
                to the time schedule and furnished their roll-out plan.
                In regard to the issues relating to the SHF System (fixed and mobile), a review of the status of
                SHF system design and the approval of the preliminary design review for the SHF mobile
                system is currently under discussion between WMO and the contractor. The mission noted
                that the outcome of the above will be reported to senior management in DOT to arrive at
                options to achieve closure on pending issues so that the overall project is not further delayed.
                It was also noted that a decision on this would be made by 03/31/04.
April 2005      Implementation progress reports to be furnished bi monthly
November        Continued delays, need for adequate staffing and resources, need for further loan
2005            cancellation, PMC support, implementation progress downgraded to "moderately
(aide-memoire   unsatisfactory": The mission reviewed and noted with concern the consistent delays in the
and             implementation of the NRMMS component from targets agreed to in September 2004 and
management      later in March 2005. Although the installed ASMS is completely functional, and is being
letter)         used to some extent, WPC needs to take steps to utilize the systems better. In addition, the
                contractors have not yet been able to hand over a fully completed monitoring station to WPC.
                Some of the key reasons for this delay include:
                  l Acceptance procedure. Important divergences between WPC team and the contractor
                     have appeared concerning procedure of verification of accuracies of measurements and
                     interpretation of results. As a result of this, during last 5 months no conclusion has been
                     reached to go forward with the acceptance testing of the V/UHF MMS vehicles.
                  l Inadequate resources for testing. Limited material resources (only one capability for
                     simulating for testing) and limited human resources (only one team for vehicles testing)
                     make testing and acceptance a very unusual long process.
                  l Delays in handing over sites in Siliguri and Vizag to develop tower sites.
                  l Delays in finalizing the garages in Bhopal, Shillong, Siliguri and Vizag.
                  l Inordinate delays in local supplies and installation at sites by HFCL
                  l Quality of some works was not the most appropriate and some works had to be redone.
                  l The mission reviewed these issues with WPC and noted that the revised plan is to
                     complete the above by 12/31/05. Given the past poor implementation performance, the
                     mission doubts if the planned completion can be achieved, unless WPC management:
                  l Resolves the issue with regard to Acceptance Testing of the V/ UHF MMS vehicles in
                     respect of DF accuracy and system sensitivity, and
                  l strengthens the PIU with sufficient staff on a full time basis as recommended by the
                     mission several times previously.




                                                   - 60 -

                                                                                                    (cont.)
    Date        Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI (adapted)
                                                              (cont)
                Regarding issues related to the SHF system (fixed and mobile), a review of the status of SHF
                system design and the approval of PDR for the SHF mobile system is still under discussion
                between WPC and the contractor. The mission noted that even if the issues are satisfactorily
                resolved, as of date, implementation of the SHF System would take over 12 months to
                complete and hence cannot be completed on or before 03/31/06, the closing date for the Loan.
                Hence, WPC agreed that approximately $5 million reserved under the loan for the SHF part of
                the contract would be cancelled with immediate effect and financed out of DOT's funds. It
                was agreed that WPC/ DOT will arrange with DEA to request World Bank to cancel the
                above amount.
                The mission reiterated that the following issues receive the Wireless Advisor's urgent
                attention to ensure that the ASMS, fixed stations and the VHF/ UHF Mobile Monitoring
                vehicles are completed by the loan closing date (12/31/06):
                  l Extension of PMC consultancy for four months, to end 12/31/05. The mission noted that
                     PMC services financed under the Bank loan have been paid only 80 percent of the initial
                     contract price although services provided were complete as per the PMC contract. Hence,
                     the mission urges WPC to pay the last payment of 20 percent without further delay.
                  l Ensuring that a fully staffed PIU along with adequate additional staff is available for the
                     remainder of the project period to carry acceptance tests for the VHF/UHF mobile
                     vehicles and the fixed sites.
                In both March and June 2005, it was agreed that the Project Director would furnish
                fortnightly reports to the Project Coordinator and the Telecom Commission, with a copy to the
                Bank, on the progress of NRMMS implementation, highlighting any delays and corrective
                measures to ensure timely implementation. This has however not been done as yet. The
                mission urged that senior DOT management closely monitor implementation progress and
                take steps to accelerate the completion of this project.
                From Management letter:
                "I am concerned to learn that the implementation of some elements of the NRMMS is
                delayed. We continue to call the attention of DOT senior management to this project, and the
                assignment of adequate staff and budgetary resources to the project implementation unit, in
                order to achieve a successful outcome. Unless there problems are resolved promptly, it may
                be difficult to include follow-up investment support for radio management under the new
                Rural Telecommunications Development Project as initially contemplated.
                I understand that agreement has been reached on canceling the allocation for the Super High
                Frequency fixed and mobile monitoring stations, amounting to approximately $5 million. We
                await a formal request for the corresponding loan cancellation from DEA."
February 2006   GoI requests cancellation of additional $7.67 million
March 2006      Continued delays at project closure (March 2006): The mission noted that commissioning
(aide-memoire)  of the NRMMS continued to be delayed by unresolved issues between WPC and the contractor
                over specifications for fixed and mobile monitoring facilities. The WPC officers stated that
                the system specifications were based on monitoring requirements. This situation has
                continued for many months in spite of intensive efforts to resolve the issues. At this time,
                there is no timetable to resolve this problem and as a result no timetable for commissioning of
                the fully operational NRMMS. The mission opined that the specifications were only affecting
                a very small part of the overall capability of the system to monitor potentially harmful radio
                interference. The mission suggested that DOT senior management consider options so that
                this issue does not hold up commissioning of the NRMMS indefinitely, and so that the
                benefits of the system can be delivered.




                                                   - 61 -

     Separate Time Line for Appointment of Project Management Consultants (PMC)

     Date       Appointment of PMC consultants - Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI
                (adapted)
February 2000   Advice to include a PMC for WPC component: As discussed during appraisal, the mission
(aide-memoire)  reiterated to WPC the need for PMC to assist WPC in smooth implementation of its
                component. This is a major project involving supply with installation and commissioning of
                an integrated spectrum monitoring and management. The project is important for India and
                WPC cannot afford to take any risks that could lead to delays and/or sub-optimal project
                implementation. Lastly, although WPC will set up a PIU, WPC's personnel would need
                support of a dedicated team of industry experts working uniquely on the project to ensure the
                success of the project. Therefore, the project provides for a PMC to assist in the procurement
                process including selection, contract negotiations and implementation of spectrum
                management and monitoring system.
May 2000        Importance of appointing PMC. WPC will need PMC assistance because: this is a first
(Project        project of its kind (integrating spectrum monitoring and management and integrating supply
Appraisal       with installation and commissioning) that WPC will be handling; the project is large
Document)       compared to what WPC has handled in the past; the project is highly critical for India and
                WPC cannot afford to take risks that could lead to delays and/or suboptimal project
                implementation; and the two-stage procurement process adopted for realizing the contract is a
                complex process. Lastly, although WPC will set up a project unit, WPC personnel would
                continue to perform their day-to-day activities and a dedicated team of industry expert,
                working uniquely on the project, will ensure the success of the project. Therefore the project
                provides for a PMC to assist in the procurement process including contract selection of
                ASMS.
October 2000    Concerns with poor staffing and delays in appointing PMC: The mission noted that a PIU
(aide-memoire)  has been established with a Project Director, Deputy Director General (Finance), an engineer,
                accounts staff and two clerical staff. It was agreed that the PIU needs to be strengthened by
                external experts to reduce risks of implementation delays and cost overruns for the following
                reasons: this is a first project of its kind (integrating spectrum monitoring and management
                and integrating supply with installation and commissioning) that WPC will be handling; the
                project is large compared to what WPC has handled in the past; the project is important for
                India and WPC cannot afford to take risks that could lead to delays and/or suboptimal project
                implementation; and the two-stage procurement process adopted for realizing the contract is a
                complex process. The mission agreed to the terms of reference for the appointment of a PMC
                to assist PIU. The PMC to be mobilized by January 2001 will assist in the procurement
                process, including contract administration and implementation of ASMMS.
August 2001     Published Request for EOI for PMC selection
October 2001    WPC agreed to select PMC by Feb 2002
(aide-memoire)
June 2002       Delays in appointment of PMC: Delegation DOT/WPC informed that PMC selection of
(aide-memoire)  consultants to be finalized by June 2002.




                                                    - 62 -

                                                                                                         (cont.)
    Date     Appointment of PMC consultants - Status/Development/Remarks conveyed to GoI
             (adapted)
December     Need to address risks of failure namely through PMC: The mission noted that although
2002 (aide   the bank issued its clearance on 07/15/02 to award the ASMMS contract to the wining firm
memoire and  recommended by WPC, the contract was not signed until 10/31/02. Engagement of PMC.
management   The project has provided for a PMC to assist WPC in managing this large project component.
letter)      The appointment of this consultancy is also significantly delayed. To ensure the ASMMS is
             completed within the revised time schedule and within the contracted cost, we recommend
             that the project management consultants should be engaged on an urgent basis in order to
             commence their assignment by mid-January 2003. There are several risks involved in
             making transition from a largely paper based process to the electronic based ASMMS process.
             Hence the WPC project team, with the assistance of PMC, should identify risks and prepare a
             risk mitigation action plan to ensure successful functioning of the ASMMS.[...] WPC agreed
             to have this plan completed and furnish to Bank for review and comments by 02/15/03.
February     WPC requests extension of validity of PMC proposals beyond July 2002: You are aware
2003         that we are in the advance stage for awarding the contract for PMC. As you know that the
             validity of the proposals of the three technically qualified proposals from the three firms was
             up to 07/15/02. Therefore we intend asking for extension of validity of proposals for PMC.
February     WB notes PMC proposals were submitted one year before, so no need to extend validity.
2003         Requests WPC to submit draft negotiated package for Bank review and clearance
             urgently
June 2003    Engagement of PMC. The project has provided for a PMC to assist WPC in managing this
(management  large project component. The contract with the selected consultancy firm has been signed and
letter)      we expect the consultants to begin work by 07/15/03. To ensure the ASMMS is completed
             within the revised time schedule and within the contracted cost, we recommend that the PIU
             should be staffed on a full time basis.
August 2003  PMC commences assignment




                                                  - 63 -

- 64 -

