                                      Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No.: 46288-IN




                  PROJECTPERF'ORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                         INDIA

     TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTORREFORMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                              PROJECT(LOAN4555-IN)


                                    October 23,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit =Indian Rupees (NR)

1998                      US$ 1.00              INR41.5
1999                      US$ 1.00              INR43.1
2000                      US$ 1.00               INR45.1
2001                      US$ 1.00               INR47.3
2002                      US$ 1.00               INR48.5
2003                      US$ 1.00               INR46.3
2004                      US$ 1.00               INR45.1
2005                      US$ 1.00               INR44.0
2006                      US$ 1.00               INR45.3

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

ASMS         Automated Spectrum ManagementSystem
BSNL         Bharat Sanchar NigamLtd
CAS          CountryAssistance Strategy
DOT          DepartmentofTelecommunications
FDI          ForeignDirect Investment
GO1          Government of India
HF           HighFrequency
IC1          Informationand CommunicationInfrastructure
ICR          ImplementationCompletionReport
IEG          IndependentEvaluationGroup
IEGWB        IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)
ITU          InternationalTelecommunicationUnion
MOC          Ministry of Communications
NFAP         NationalFrequencyAllocation Plan
NSMS         NationalSpectrumMonitoring System
PDO          ProjectDevelopmentObjective
PIU          Project ImplementationUnit
PMC          ProjectManagementConsultant
PPAR         Project PerformanceAssessment Report
SACFA        StandingAdvisory Committee onRadioFrequencyAllocation
SHF          Super HighFrequency
TRAI         TelecomRegulatoryAuthority of India
TDSAT        TelecomDisputes SettlementandAppellate Tribunal
TEC          Telecommunication Engineering Center
UHF          Ultra HighFrequency
VHF          Very HighFrequency
WMO          Wireless Monitoring Organization
WPC          Wireless PlanningandCoordinationWing

FiscalYear

Government:      April 1 March 31
                         -

Director-General, IndependentEvaluation                 : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)       : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                      : Ms.MonikaHuppi
TaskManager                                             : Mr.PeterFreeman

                                                             i


 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independencein evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programs and activitiesof theWorld Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is producing the
expected results,and second, to helpdevelopimproved directions,policies, and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannually assessesabout25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperationsthrough fieldwork. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those
that are innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and thosethat are likelyto generate
importantlessons.
       To preparea ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders,and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsible Bank department. IEGWBincorporatesthe commentsas
relevant.The completedPPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB RatingSystem
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluationmethodsoffers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to
lending instrument,projectdesign, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion
(additionalinformationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy,and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectivesare consistentwith the country's current development prioritiesand with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers,Country
AssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved,or are expectedto be achieved, taking intoaccount their relativeimportance. Efficiencyis the
extent to which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the opportunitycost of capital
and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimension generally is not appliedto adjustment
operations. Possibleratingsfor Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that developmentoutcomes (or
expectedoutcomes)will not be maintained (or realized). Possibleratings for Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant,Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensuredquality at entry of the
operationand supported effectiveimplementationthroughappropriatesupervision(including ensuringadequate
transitionarrangements for regularoperationof supported activities after loanlcreditclosing, toward the
achievement of developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions:qualityat entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies)ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements, toward the achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performanceand implementingagency(ies)performance.Possibleratings for BorrowerPerformance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                         111



Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS               ....................................................................................................................        V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................       V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................         vi1


SUMMARY     ......................................................................................................................................         IX


1.      BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                   ......................................................................................      1


2.      THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK SECTOR OVERVIEW                     .                                          .......................................  2


3.      THE PROJECT              ...................................................................................................................        3


4.      IMPLEMENTATION                   ............................................................................................................       5


5.      MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                   ...................................................................................      7


6.      PROJECT OUTCOMES                        .....................................................................................................       8


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
           .                                     ..................................................................................................        17


ANNEX B CONSULTANCIES CONDUCTED BY TRAl UNDERTHE WORLD BANK LOAN
           .
NO .4555-INAND          THEIR UTILIZATION                    .......................................................................................       20


ANNEX C BORROWERCOMMENTS
           .                                               .........................................................................................       24




This reportwas preparedbyPeter Freeman. who visitedIndiato assess projectperformanceduring
February. 2008 .RomaynePereiraprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings

                                         ICR*               ICRkeview*                      PPAR
                                                  -____
Outcome                        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory ModeratelySatisfactory-
Institutional                  Substantial              Substantial
Development
Impact**
Riskto                                                                             Negligibleto Low
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***                 Likely                  Likely
Bank                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory           ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance
Borrower                       Satisfactory             Satisfactory           ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**AS of July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopment Impactis assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***ASof July 1,2006, Sustainabilityhas been replacedby Riskto DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different, the ratingsare not directly comparable.



Key StaffResponsible

Project              Task ManagedLeader             Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                    Sector Director
Appraisal              Rajesh B Pradhan            MarilouJane D Uy                 Edwin R Lim
Completion                Peter L Smith             Philippe Dongier               Fayez S Omar


                                             vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the India
Telecommunications Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (Loan 4555-IN), for
which the World Bank approved a loan o fUS$62.00 million equivalent on June 6,2000.
At appraisal the total project cost was estimated to beUS$72.00million, with US$lO.OO
million to be contributed bythe Government of India(GOI). Duringproject
implementationthe GO1requested two cancellations o f the loan inthe amounts o f
US$20.00 million and US$7.67 million inJanuary 2004 and February 2006 respectively.
After a final cancellationo fUS$5.71 million at project closure, which was 15 months
later thanplanneddue to implementation delays, some US$28.62 millionhadbeen
disbursed, or 46 percent o f the original loan amount. The final total project cost disbursed
was US$29.88 million.

        The project was selected for assessmentbecause o f the importance it accorded to
strengthening the regulatory and dispute settlement framework inIndia so as to enable
acceleration insector growth. There were also important lessons to be learned from the
process o fmodernizing the country's radio frequency management and licensing
systems.

        IEGpreparedthis report based on an examination o fthe relevantProject
Appraisal Document (PAD), ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR), legal
agreements, project files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and
working papers. Discussions were also held with Bank staff inboth Washington D.C. and
inNewDelhi. An IEGfieldmissionvisitedIndiainFebruary2008, conducted site visits,
anddiscussed boththe project andthe effectiveness o fBank assistancewith relevant
officials and stakeholders. The mission appreciates the courtesies and attention given by
these interlocutors as well as the support provided by the Bank's office inNew Delhi.

        Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to
government officials and agencies for their review andresponses received are included in
Annex C.


                                              i x


Summary

    This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the India
TelecommunicationsSector Reform Technical AssistanceProject (Loan 4555-N), which
was intendedto support the reform o f the country's telecommunications sector. An
acceleration o finvestment and interest from the private sector began after legislation for
major sector reform was enacted in 1994, but grew exponentially from 1999 after further
reforms were introduced. Boththe fledglingregulatory agencies that were created andthe
responsible government department needed urgentcapacity buildingsupport to
strengthen their ability to meet the unprecedented demand for their services.

    The project development objective (PDO) was "to strengthen elements o f the policy
andregulatory environment to promoteprivate sector investmentand competition inthe
telecommunications sector inIndia". This was to be achieved by assisting the Department
o f Telecommunications (DOT) to strengthen its functions, including modernizationo f its
radio frequency management and licensingsystems, andby strengthening the capacity o f
the Telecom Regulatory Authority o f India (TRAI) andthe Telecom Disputes Settlement
and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) to regulate the sector.

        The project preparationteam recognizedthe importance o f monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) anddevised acceptable indicators for the main outputs, but made little
attempt to deal with the attribution question inrespect o f measurable outcomes-
probably because the PDO as framed was so broad. M&E design was thus inadequate.
Duringimplementation this aspectreceivedmore attention. TRAI, for example, hasput
inextensive work to ensurethat the activities ofthe stakeholders inthe sector are
monitored regularly and produces a quarterly report detailing inter alia ownership,
growth, costs andmarket share. Overall, M&Ewas modest.

    Taking into account the progress towards achieving the PDO andthe assessments o f
relevance, efficacy and efficiency, IEG's overall project outcome rating i s moderately
satisfactory. While the capacity buildingcomponents were substantially accomplished,
the shortcomings inrespect o f the equipment component, which was by far the largest in
the project, were too important to permit a fully satisfactory rating. Project delays ledto
thebenefits o fthe new systems not beingfully realizeduntilover three years after the
original closing date o fthe project. Also, the Super HighFrequency (SHF) portion o f the
project was cancelled andwhile at this time only ten percent o f interferencecomplaints
arise from use o f the spectrum above the 3 GHz band, this percentage may grow inthe
future. Itwas not feasible to calculate an economic rate o freturn for this project, but there
is no doubt that boththe above factors would have negatively affected the benefit stream
and added to the costs. Inaddition, too much capital was tied-up inthe appraisal cost
estimates for the project, and inthe end less than halfo fthe original project cost estimate
was actually disbursed.

    Though only partly attributable to the project, the ongoing liberalization o f the sector
has continued at a very fast pace. Foreign direct investment has continued to increase,
call charges have fallen, andteledensity has improved dramatically. The capacity
buildinginitiative inthis project has helpedto strengthen agencies that have come to be

                                                X



well regarded andindeedhave an internationalreputation. TRAI andTDSAT receive
visits from other developing country agencies eager to learn from the Indianexperience.
Implementation o f sector reform has receiveda substantial overhaul duringthe last five
years andis well set to cope with a technological environment o f constant change. Some
concerns are evident due to a lack o f suitably qualified staff inthe DOT, but this is part o f
a generic problem inthe Indian civil service which the GO1i s addressing separately. On
balance, telecommunications and technology inIndiaare on track to be amongst the best
inthe dynamic andcompetitive market inAsia, andthe risk to development outcome of
this project failing is seen as negligible to low.

    The Bank dida goodjob inadvocating the expansion o fthe project designto give
general institutional support to the sector reforms. It also supervised the capacitybuilding
component well, was flexible, andgave additional advice on technical and strategic
issues at the government's request which it clearly valued. However, the cost for the
project was seriously over-estimated despite the use o f experienced consultants, more
thought could also have gone into the design of the monitoring indicators specified, and
the implementationrisks, though properly identified, were under-estimated. The
supervisionproblems o fthe equipment procurement, installation andcommissioning
were well-documented and it is clear that considerable discussion took place concerning
the inadequacy o fthe project implementation unit (PIU) andthe need to retain an
experienced project manager. The overall rating i s moderately satisfactory.

    The Borrower participatedwith commitment duringpreparation, but loan negotiations
were delayedby around eight months awaiting the appointment o fconsultants to assist
the Wireless Planning and coordination Wing (WPC) to prepare biddingdocuments. This
delay was due to difficulty insecuring government approval for the selection o f
consultants under Bank guidelines, which differ from government procedures.

    The performance o fthe implementing agencies inrespect o f capacity buildingwas
very positive and few significant problems were encountered. However, the WPC
component experienced considerable delays because o fproblems with contractors, and a
lack o f empowerment and decision-making capacity inthe PIU. The Borrower rating,
overall, is moderately satisfactory.

    A number o fimportant lessons canbe gleanedfrom the design andimplementationo f
thisproject:

e        When the experience o f the implementingagency inmanagingprojects i s limited,
         and especially when such projects are complex, it is essential to appoint a project
         management consultant early-on to compensate for any gaps inexpertise. Most o f
         the difficulties experienced inthe implementationo f the Telecom Sector Reform
         Project, involving the modernizationo f the country's radio frequency and
         licensing system, were attributable to inability to take decisions and lack o f
         capacity to find solutions to problems;

e        Ina sector where technology advancement is akeydriver ofchange, itis
        necessary to build sufficient flexibility and foresight into the projects. Inthe India
         Telecom Reform Project, flexibility allowed for project realignment during

                                           x i


   implementation, whenrequired, thus facilitating a redefinition o fneeds. An
   example o fthis was an unexpected need to gain an understanding o ftelevision
   broadcasting signal technology. However, with regardto the need for foresight, a
   better understanding o f the relationship betweenrapid technological change and
   project costs couldhave avoided a serious overestimate of equipment costs, and
   this would have saved US$ 331,000 infront-end fees, while the Bank would have
   better utilized part o f its loan. Obsolescence also occurs more quickly inthe
   telecommunications field andso it is critical to avoid delays inproject
   completion;

0  Investingincapacity buildingand institutional development i s critical to ensuring
   effective project implementationandproject sustainability. This was a crucial
   aspect of strengthening the regulatory and dispute settlement framework inIndia.
   However, it i s equally important inensuring operational effectiveness, especially
   for equipment design, procurement and installation. Such investments need to be
   supported by clear leadership and a willingness to implement reforms at a senior
   level. Sometimes the prevailing organizational andbusiness culture can impede
   satisfactory progress due to competing priorities and agendas. When such a
   serious blockage i s encountered the issue should be elevated to an appropriate
   level o f decision-making and, ifnecessary, pursuedon a programmatic or multi
   agency basis.




                                                              Vinod Thomas
                                                             Director-General
                                                                Evaluation


                                                    1


 1.        Backgroundand Context

 1.1     India, with a population o fjust over a billionpeople i s the second most populated
country inthe world. Prior to the midnineties, its telecommunications*industry was stagnant
-teledensit? hadgrownbyonly 1.92percentin50years(1948-98). Therewasahighlevel
o funmet demand for basic telephone service and inadequate availability, especially inrural
areas. Applying for a telephone service under the state-owned monopoly was a burdensome
process and customer service was often dismal. Thus the move to encourage competition and
the rapid expansion o f the subscriber base inIndia inthe last ten years has been a remarkable,
success story and one inwhich there is considerable learning for other countries wishing to
undertake a similar transition.

 1.2     Duringthe last ten years teledensity inIndiahas grownto 18percent (2007), and
recently the mobile subscriber base has been growing by 6 million every month. Tariffs
charged have consistently fallen, and Indianow has the fourth largest telecom network after
China, the US, andthe Russian Federation. This has attracted significant foreign direct
investment, stimulated economic growth and encouraged the location of business process
outsourcing. The Indiantelecom service industry is contributing at least 2.7 percent o f the
country's total GDP3.

1.3      A keyresource for wireless technology based information andcommunication
infrastructure (ICI) i s the radio spectrum, and it is imperative that it is monitored and
managed inthe most efficient and transparent manner inthe interest o f the country as a
whole4. Convergence incommunication technologies, services and firms has also blurredthe
boundaries betweenthe telecoms andbroadcasting sectors, and impacted the demand for the
use o fthe radio spectrum.

1.4      The reform o fthe telecom sector beganwith the acceptance o f a new National
Telecom Policy in 1994 which was followed by an even more ambitious plan in 1999. This
caused a surge indelivery that placedunprecedented demands on the authorities responsible
for its implementation. The 1999 updated policy acknowledged that proper management o f
India's radio spectrum is critical and that a key objective was to achieve efficiency and
transparency inspectrum management.

1.5      The Telecommunications Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project was approved
inJune 2000 andaimedto strengthenthe respective government institutions to meetthese
challenges. While the success o f the implementationo f the reform measures can only partly
be attributedto the project, it certainly played a crucial role inthe ensuing transformation.
This report evaluates the extent to which this technical assistanceproject met its development
goals, supported the telecom strategy o f the Government o f India (GOI), and extracts what
lessons can be learned from the implementationexperience.


 Henceforth called "telecom" inthis report
 Telephone lines per 100persons.
3Telecom Regulatory Authority ofIndia estimate, 2007.
4Briefing Report "Radio Spectrum Management Development ion India" World Bank, June 2006

                                                2



2.        The InstitutionalFramework-Sector Overview

2.1     It is essentialbefore proceeding further to understandthe basic institutional
framework for telecoms inIndia. The responsible ministry is the Ministry o f
Communications (through the Telecommunications Commission charged with formulating
the sector strategy, andthe Department o f Telecommunications [DOT]-the licensing
authority). In 1994, the monopolistic nature o f service provisionwas changed, opening-up
the operationofbasic and cellular services to private investors. Inorder to regulate the new
environment, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) was established in 1997'.
TRAIis a statutory body with quasi-judicial powers responsible for inter aliarecommending
the needs and timingo f entry o fnew service providers, the terms and conditions ofthe
licenses, technical compatibility and effective interconnectionbetween service providers, and
ensuring compliance o f license conditions with universal service obligations andother
internationallypracticed common regulatory principles, consistent with India's World Trade
Organization commitments.

2.2     Because there was a conflict o f interest as the DOT was boththe main operator and
the licensing authority, the government and service provision functions were separated in
1999. The service function was corporatizedas Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. (BSNL) in2000
andpart o fthe government function ofDOT is carried out bythe principal agency, the
Wireless Planning andCoordinationWing (WPC) which is responsible for radio frequency
spectrum policy, planning,licensing, administration, monitoring and enforcement. The
Wireless Monitoring Organization (WMO) i s the field agency o fWPC, while the
Telecommunications Engineering Center (TEC) i s responsible for setting technical standards
for equipment andnetwork interconnection. A Standing Advisory Committee on Radio
FrequencyAllocations (SACFA) is responsible for formulating India's National Frequency
Allocation Plan, recommendingon major frequency allocation issues, andproviding site
clearances for the installationofradio equipment.

2.3     In2000, the disputes settlement function formerly vested inTRAIwas transferred to
a new body, the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT), which
meant that appeals no longer neededto involve the highcourts. Prior to the establishment of
TDSAT, TRAI, with limitedin-house expertise, was being overwhelmed by court challenges
from powerfbl public and private operators. Since the appointment o f the chairperson and
members o f TDSAT were made inconsultation with the ChiefJustice o f India, the
impartiality andhighstanding o fthe tribunal were assured. This left TRAI to focus on
regulatory matters and restored its credibility.




 Telecom Regulatory Authority of IndiaAct, 1997

                                                3




3.       The Project

ProjectObjective

3.1     The stated development objective o fthe project (PDO) as articulated inthe PAD and
unchanged duringimplementationwas as follows:

"To strengthen elements of thepolicy and regulatory environment topromoteprivate sector
investment and competition in the telecommunications sector in India ''

3.2     This was to be achieved by assisting the DOT to strengthen its government functions,
including modernization o f its radio frequency management and licensing systems, andby
strengthening the capacity o f TRAI and TDSAT to regulate the sector.

3.3     The development objective, thoughbroadlyworded, has two elements (regulatory
strengthening andprivate sector promotion). Both were substantially relevant to the 1998 and
2005 Country Assistance Strategies (CAS), which stressedimproving the effectiveness o f
government and promoting private sector-led growth. The latest CAS aims to create a well-
regulated, but competitive enabling environment, enhancing private sector entry, and
participation andinvestment inthe Indian economy-especially        infrastructure. The project
also sought to assist the implementationo f the country's recently updated National
Telecommunications Policy. Itprovided institution buildingfor the newly established entities
o f TRAI and TDSAT.

3.4    Originally, the GO1hadbeen interested inBank assistance largely for the
procurement o f technical services and equipment for radio spectrum monitoring and
management as a result o f increased demand due to sector reform already initiated in 1994.
The Bankteam, however, successfully and appropriately convinced GO1that to accelerate
sector growth there was a need to provide special support to the new sector institutions and to
the successful introduction o f the updated policy initiative involving capacitybuilding
through consultancy studies, training andtechnical assistance.

ProjectComponents and Costs

3.5    DOT Component (US$56.38 million)

    1.     Assistance to the DOT (headquarters) to support the strengthening of DOT'S
           government functions by financing provision o f equipment, consultants' services,
           andtraining, (0.15 percent o fDOT component cost).

    2.     Support to the WPC for equipment andtechnical assistance inthe field o f
           spectrum management (98.85 percent o fDOT component cost) as follows:

                                                 4


               Procurement and installationo f an automated spectrum management system
               (ASMS)to automatically process requests for the assignment ofradio
               frequencies, wireless licenses etc.;

           0   Procurement and installation o f a national spectrum monitoring system
               (NSMS) through upgrading the radio monitoring facilities o f the WMO-the
               field organizationof WPC. The two systemswere to be set up inan integrated
               manner, with connectivity with the wireless monitoring headquarters, four
               regionalheadquarters (located at Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, and Mumbai) and
               22 wireless monitoring stations throughout India;

               Technical training o f staff assigned to operate and maintain these systems, and
               for WPC's senior management;

               Technical assistanceto WPC for settingup a Project Management
               Consultancy (PMC) to assist inexpeditingthe procurement process and to
               strengthenWPC's institutional capabilities.

     3.    Technical assistance for capacity buildinginthe TEC, comprising awareness o f
     emerging technologies, and staff training that included seminars, attendance o f external
     formal training programs, in-house training, a tour o f regulatory agencies, and staff
     exchanges, (1.O percent o f DOT component cost).

3.6    TRAI/TDSATComponent (US$5.62million)

       1.      Support for TRAI comprising technical assistance to strengthen the
       organization's ability to regulate the sector. It includes support for consultancy
       studies on priority regulatory issues and staff training, (90 percent o f TRAI/TDSAT
       component cost);

       2.      Assistance to TDSAT to support the implementationo f a program o ftechnical
       assistance for strengthening the institutional capabilities o f TDSAT inthe areas o f
       adjudication and dispute resolution, (10 percent o f TRAVTDSAT component cost).

3.7    The costs for the project components are given inTable 3.1 below:

Table 3.1 Components and Costs (US$ millions) for the Telecommunications Sector
Reform Technical Assistance Project (Loan: 4555-IN)

COMPONENT                    APPRAISAL      APPRAISAL     APPRAISAL    ACTUAL     ACTUAL      ACTUAL
                             BANK           BORROWER      TOTAL        BANK       BORROWER    TOTAL


DOT COMPONENT (HQ,TEC&       56.38          9.49          65.87        25.27       5.00       30.27
WPC)
REGULATORYCOMPONENT (TRAI     5.62          0.51           6.13         2.73       0.00        2.73


TOTAL                         62 00         10 00          72 00       28 00       5.00       33.00

                                                5




4.        Implementation

Qualityat Entry

4.1     The project was not reviewed bythe World Bank's Quality Assurance Group prior to
appraisal. The ICR team believed, however, that the project was satisfactory at entry because
the project design factored inIndia's telecoms background, the needs and objectives o f the
GOI, as well as the policies andtrends pertinent to the sector. The PAD clearly hadidentified
the importance o f technical assistance to the various agencies andthe project design took into
account the need for additional capabilities for spectrum management resulting from sector
growth.

4.2     On the other hand, although duringpreparation a risk was identified that the
equipment provided bythe project might not be implemented ina timely and effective
manner. Mitigating measures to address this issue, inthe event, proved insufficient. This was
inpartbecausethe project management consultants were not recruitedearly enough, butmay
also have been due to the degree o f complexity o f the WPC component. The estimated
project costs were also far too high.Moreover, comparatively little thought was given to
project M&E.InIEG's view the quality at entry was moderately satisfactory.

ImplementationProblems

4.3     The institutional strengthening elements o fthe project were mostly concludedwithout
any serious issues arising, although inthe case o fTRAIthere was some initial delay in
utilizing available funds because there was the possibility that TRAI would be subsumed
withina larger body-the     Convergence Commission o f India. However, this didnot
eventuate, and the utilization o f finds then accelerated.

4.4     The component encountering most o f the difficulties inimplementationwas the
procurement and installationo f equipment for WPC. There were persistent delays throughout
project implementation. The quality o f some work was unsatisfactory and had to be redone-
the failure rate o f core equipment was also unusually high.There were divergences between
the contractor and the WPC regarding the procedure for verification o f the accuracy o f
measurements andthe interpretation o f results, while frequent changes inthe composition o f
the contractors' team made it difficult to maintain consistency. Divergences between the
WPC and the WMO on technical procedures also caused some delay due to an unclear chain
o fresponsibility for choosing testingprocedures.

4.5     An insufficient number o f full-time staffwas available for the Project Implementation
Unit(PIU) which seriously weakened effective project implementation.Theworkload of
both WPC and WMO staff was steadily increasing at this time without any commensurate
increase instaffing. Consequently the Bank supervisory team repeatedly recommended to the
implementing agency to urgently strengthen the PIU with adequate staff on a full-timebasis.
However, there was a reluctance to hire foreign consultants, and a project management

                                                        6


consultant was only appointed inJune 2003, commencinghis assignment inAugust 2003-
three years after the project became effective6.

4.6      The problems described above could havebeen minimizedby strengthening the
PIU's capacity and appointing a PMC at the outset. Even this, however, would not
necessarily have resolved all the delays, since WPC andWMO (sometimes with differing
agendas) didnot always take advantage o fthe PMC expertise, even after the PMC was
appointed. As pointed out inthe ICR, the incentives and organizationalculture withinDOT
constrained its ability to make quick decisions and provide timely solutions to problems7.
Delays inprocurement, for example, are commonly experienced inother Bank-financed
Indiaprograms, andthis generic issue may need to be addressedon a multiagency basis. The
potentialbenefits o fthe new spectrum management and monitoring system were thus
delayed and overshadowed by disagreements over contractual issues. Continuous
implementationdelays eventually resultedinan extension o f the closing date to March2006
(from December 2004), cancellationo fpart o f the loan, and the project at times being
classified as "at risk".

4.7      Three loan cancellations took place duringimplementation. InJanuary 2004 US$20
millionwas cancelled. This was, according to the ICR, due to savings through the use o f
international competitive biddingprocurement procedures and a reduction inequipment
prices due to advances intechnology. IEGconfirms that while these reasons were valid, the
size o fthe amount estimated at appraisal remains a cause for concern, since there was a
substantial opportunity cost o f capital unnecessarily tied-upthrough this over-estimate,
which was clearly too generous.

4.8      The second cancellationwas for US$7.67 million inFebruary 2006, largely due to the
persistent delays inthe implementationo fthe WPC component, even after extension o f the
closing date, andthe final cancellationo fUS$5.71 millionreflected the fact that the super
highfrequency (SHF)fixed andmobilemonitoring system couldno longerbecompleted
before the closing date. Although there was some speculation that the GO1might find the
SHF from own finds, at the time o fthe IEGmissionit was evident that the monitoring
equipment for the SHF would not be supplied as WPC andthe contractor had not been able
to reach agreement on specifications. Thus inthe end only 46 percent o fthe loan was
disbursed, the remainder being cancelled.

Demandfor the RadioSpectrum

4.9      The demand for the radio spectrum inIndia i s high, especially because o fthe
enormous growth o f cellular subscribers and internet users. Spectrum usage remains largely



 The time line of events during implementation i s recordedinconsiderable detail inthe ICR, Annex 9, from
which this information i s drawn.
 Public disclosure o f the ICR was authorized inSeptember 2006. Some o fthe problems discussed relate to
more generic problems throughout the Indiancivil service. These are acknowledged by the GOI, which has set
up a Commissionto look at the potential for streamlining deliveryofpublic programs and improving service to
the public. For further reading see, for example, the Economist leader andbriefing on India's civil service,
(March 8,2008).

                                                    7


inthe handsofgovernment or quasi government bodies includingdefense, civil aviation,
space, shipping, railways, police, broadcasting andothers. Historically, mucho f the spectrum
was allocated before technology began to make huge demands on it. Because some allocated
bands o f the airwaves are overcrowded, customers have increasingly been complaining o f
poor connectivity leading to an excessive number o f "dropped calls". This issue may be
resolvedwith a reallocation from some o f the departments including the military,but efforts
to release spectrum currently assigned to such users is proving to be a slow process. Inthe
meantime technological advances have enabled more efficient use o fthe spectrum with more
calls to be packed-in to a given space usingso-called third generation (3G) networks.
However, this is not a long-term solution.

4.10     Current spectrum management practice inIndia is based on a traditional centralized
command model, but a growing number o f countries are beginning to turnto alternative
marketbased approaches to spectrum management, whereby the spectrum allocations are
auctioned. IEGbelieves that this approach has merit, but that WPC would need to recruit
staff with economic skills and the appropriate government departments would have to
establish a set o frules for this to work. However, there are precedents inother countries
(Ofcom, the independent telecomregulator inthe UnitedKingdom, for example) that could
be adapted for local use. The lifetime o f spectrum licenses inIndia is also relatively short in
duration incomparisonto internationalpractice. Considerationcould also be given to
elevating the status o f spectrummanagement inIndiato a higher level o f government. In
some countries this means there would be a greater degree o f independence with a reporting
line to the Prime-Minister's Office or to the Cabinet Secretariat.

5.         Monitoringand Evaluation

Design

5.1      Designingperformance indicators for institutional performance andregulatory quality
can be a challenge, and inthis instance the result was at best modest. Project preparationtook
place in 1999before it was common practice inthe Bank to give serious attention to M&E in
all sectors'. There was also little attempt to deal with the attribution question inthe design. In
the PAD there was a proposal to measure the increase inforeign direct investment (FDI) in
the sector since this would at least inpart have been due to improvements inthe effectiveness
o f the regulatory environment. Similarly, it was indicatedthat there should be evidence that
the GO1was continuing with its commitment to sector reform as articulated inits National
Telecom Policy o f 1999,including further liberalization o f the sector. One measure o f the
latter was deemed to be evidence o f licenses issued for inter-circle domestic long distance
service. All these indicators were inline with the PDO, but it was difficult inboth cases to
isolateprogress due solely to the project. The mainreason inthis regard was that the PDO
was so broad inscope.




 A report on "Performance Indicators for the Telecommunications Sector" was preparedin2004 inhlfillment
o fone ofthe requirements ofthe Wapenhans Report to prepare performance indicators for each sector.

                                                          8


5.2       The goal to assign frequencies for earmarked bands within 15 days o f application by
2004 was aimed at improving efficiency inradio frequency allocation and thus improving the
regulatory environment. However, it was probably too challenging a target given the
bureaucratic andpolitical constraints prevailing. Inaddition there were sensible output
indicators measuring progress with equipment installation, the publishing o f a National
Frequency Allocation Plan (NFAP),and completion o fnumerous studies, mainly for TRAI.
These enabledproject progress to be monitored properly duringimplementation.

Implementation

5.3       Although the PAD proposal o fmeasuringthe FDIwas dropped from the key
performance indicators duringimplementation(as shown inthe ICR log frame), the ICR
authors nevertheless did obtain and include inthe ICR text useful FDIstatistics for the sector.
These were very positive, although there is still a question o f attribution; the extent to which
this goodperformancewas dueto the Bankproject ispartlyconjectural. Therewas, however,
a good effort to monitor the indicators devised, and inthe case o fthe studies undertaken for
TRAIthere was a useful annex inthe ICRinwhich there was an indication o fthe outcome o f
each study completed andhow the results were utilized. Inthe view o fthe IEGteam this
added value. However, implementation o fM&E i s considered to be modest.

Dissemination

5.4       The mainmilestones indicated above and a considerable amount o f additional
informationpertainingto the sector is publishedby TRAI as part o f its information disclosure
initiative. Since 2006 this information has been available on its website inthe form o f a
detailed quarterly report o fperformance indicators'. Dissemination o fM&E is regarded as
substantial and industry sources such as the Association o fUnited Telecom Service Providers
o f Indiaconfirmed that there is an active utilization o fthe informationprovided. The overall
rating for M&E as a whole is modest.

6.          Project Outcomes

6.1       Because the umbrella-like PDOwas so broadly worded and involved a number o f
organizations, the relative achievements o fthe intermediate outcomes ineach case will first
bereviewed, andthen an overall assessmentmade o fthe outcomeunder the ratings insection
seven.

Departmentof Telecommunications

DOTHeadquarters

6.2       This component was very small insize, consistingo f strengthening the department's
functioning through provision o f consultant's services, and some training courses. The main


9The quarterly report is available electronically to the public o n TRAI's website and contains a wealth of
statistics monitoring service performance, quality aspects, the size o f the subscriber base and financial
information includingcosts of making calls andusing facilities.

                                                      9


item, a local consultant's study, was to assesspolicyandregulatory options for the rapid
expansion o frural communities inIndia, taking into account key factors such as the
economics o frural telecommunications anddevelopments intechnology. This was
undoubtedly a useful piece o fwork to establish a basis on which to launch an improvement
inrural coverage. TheBankhas encouragedtheDOTto take thismatter further and
commence with pilot implementation, but there is currently still some debate as to the best
way to finance such an initiative.

 TelecommunicationsEngineering Center

6.3      This was also a small, but important component comprisingnine international
training programs and costs to cover participation o fDOT staff at a number o fmeetings
organized bythe International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Since TEC provides
technical support to the DOT on technology matters, the training programs helpedtowards
strengthening institutional capabilities andwere designed to suit the specific requirements o f
TEC. The training courses covered a range o ftopics including number portability and other
advances inswitching technologies, intelligent network systems, and converged networks. A
total of 38 persons participated.

6.4      Some 31staff members attended the ITUmeetings; one visible output o fthis has
beena number o fpapers presented to I T UStudy Groups by DOT staff, butmore importantly
the publication o fspecifications covering awide spectrum o ftelecommunications
technologies including next generation networks, and Wimax technologies. Once these new
standards were ratified by ITUmember states, this enabled the Indiantelecommunication
market to acquire the latest equipment technology to provide new and quality services. IEG
observed that the extreme competitiveness o fthe market ensured that the adoptionby the
private sector was almost immediate. While it is not possible to fully measure the extent o f
the impact ofthis technical assistance, the work has clearly been successfully implemented
andthe telecommunicationmarket, accordingto the users interviewed by IEG, has benefited
as a result.

Equipment and technical assistancefor the WirelessPlanning and Coordination Wing

6.5     This component accounted for the largest portion o fthe project cost by far and also
encountered the most difficulties inimplementation. As described inmore detail insection 4,
project progress was adversely affectedby administrative weakness and lengthy procedures.
Persistent delays continuing after extension o fthe project closing date ledto the cancellation
o fthe SHF portion o fthe monitoring system covering about 10percent o f the spectrum. At
closure, the monitoring system covering the HighFrequency (HF), Very HighFre uency
(VHF) andUltraHighFrequency (UHF) bands was not fully functional andtested!',                    but at
the time o fthe IEGmission the system was commissionedand inuse byWMO, and some
problems o f significant local interference experienced initiallyhadbeen resolved.
Nevertheless, the delays caused a longer period o f time and inconvenienceduringwhich an
efficient monitoring capability was lacking. Inadequate staffing was also reported from the


loFor example, the antenna towers at two sites, Goa andJallandhar, hadbeendelayed due to landdisputes and
the mobile units hadnot been fully deployed.

                                                      10


regional offices which on occasion affected monitoring coverage'              '.Training   had generally
been conducted successfully intandem with the equipment roll out. The Indianmanufactured
vans housingthe mobile monitoring unitswere also cumbersome and may face some
restrictionswhen used inhillyareas or on narrow roads.

6.6       The ASMS was installed and partially automated. Fullautomation as originally
envisaged hadnot yet occurred,'* but the time taken to assign frequencies for earmarked
bands had fallen considerably (usually within the range o f 16-25 days), but not to the
ambitious target o f 15 days set as a target inthe PAD. Approval o f less agencies i s now
required andin some instances assent i s assumed ifno objection is receivedwithin a month
o fthe application. SACFA has permittedmore exemptions inrespect o f site clearance, and
BSNL i s no longer on the SACFA board since it cannot be both a referee andplayer.
Applicants are also now informedimmediately iftheir application is rejected.

6.7      Itwas intendedthat aNationalFrequency Allocation Planwouldbepublishedevery
two years and this was achieved in2000,2002 and 2004. However, the plandrafted in2005
had not yet been finalized inFebruary 2008 at the time o f the IEGmission.

TRAI/TDSAT

TelecomDispute Settlementsand Appellate Tribunal

6.8      The recently established agency TDSAT was required to buildits capacity, learn from
other practices around the world, and raise awareness o f its work program and activities with
its users. Through the technical assistanceunder the project a local area network (LAN-
based) reference library was set up and a website established which gave access to consumers
on all cases that had been considered.

6.9      Legal precedents are ascertainable by the public inrespect o f issues scheduled to
come before the Tribunal. Decisions o fthe Tribunal are postedwithin30 minutes o f the
verdict. Seminars, study tours and training programs have also been conducted for its staff
and to create awareness by consumers. The impact o fregional seminars has been directly
reflected inthe number o f cases and references receivedby TDSAT (up bybetween 40 and
60 percent). Exposureto international experience has also led TDSAT to propose
improvementsto legal procedures and dispute resolution ina rapidly changing regulatory
environment, while regulatory risk has been reduced through the speedy handling o f appeals.
Duringthe final year o fproject implementation the processing rate for casesreceivedwas
recorded as above 90 percent for the year.




''''
  WPC (including WMO) has a total of about 400 sanctioned technical staffpositions, of which about 30
 ercent remain vacant. Staffnumbers do not reflect the enormous growth inspectrum-based services inIndia.
  Some key agencies such as defence and aviation still have to formally agree to the assigned frequencies and
inthis sense fullautomationhas stillnot occurred.

                                               11


TelecomRegulatory Authority of India

6.10    From its inception TRAI has played a key role inhelping the telecom sector to
transform to the needs o f a modern India and cope with the phenomenal growth o ftelecom
services. Ithas also supported the sector inincreasingthe availability andreacho f especially
mobile andinternet services including the rural areas. The project supported 33 consultancy
appointments and 32 training activities or programs. This has enabled a rapidexpansion o f
TRAI's ability to play a catalytic role inreform and to shape the environment for competition
andprivate investment. This view IEGconfirmed was supportedbyassociations such as the
Association of United Telecom Service Providers o f India.

6.11 A comprehensive list o f consultancy studies andtheir results was provided inan
        Annex to the ICR (reproduced inthis PPAR as Annex B).IEGcommends the way in
        which these assignments were linked to outcomes. Three typical examples (out o f 33)
        are given below:

        Study on the cost of capital: The study was carried out to decide the rates o f return to
        be given while finalizing pricing andinterconnect user charges for the telecom
        industry as well as the quantumo f Access Deficit Charges. The inputs received from
        the study have beenused to standardize the methodology to estimate the cost o f
        capital.

        Consultancy and Workshopon Broadband Technologies: A detailed recommendation
        on growth o f internet and broadband was sent to GOI, which issued the GO1
        BroadbandPolicy o f 2004.

        Consultancyfor Advising T M Ion Cable TVServices: The studyhelpedTRAI to
        formulate its recommendations on issues relating to broadcasting and cable services.

6.12    Arguably, this component had the most impact interms o f the PDO. TRAI clearly
played an important andcatalytic role inthe reform andtransformation o f the telecom sector
andis generally regarded as a very successful agency.

6.13    Overall, taking the outcome o fthe five subcomponents o fvarying size into account,
their respective impacts needto be weighed-up carefully. The equipment-intensive WPC
component, for example, was not fully completed even at the time o fthe IEGmission, but
boththe ASMS and the NSMS are now functioning systems and clearly credit needs to be
given for this. The technical assistance funds aimed at capacity buildinghave also beenwell
utilized andhave made a significant difference inthe sector. The Bank clearly also added
value with impartial advice and through its international experience.

7.        Ratings

Relevance

7.1     As indicatedinparagraph 3.3 the project was substantially relevant taking into
account boththe CAS and GO1strategies for the telecom sector. Officials inTRAI and

                                                 12


TDSAT inparticular were very complimentary about the level andtimeliness o f the Bank
support. Institutionbuildingwas an important factor inenabling the GOI's telecom policy to
be realized. The project objectives were therefore highlyrelevant. Project design was
modestly relevant inthat insufficient attentionwas givento M&E and the issue o f attribution.
Overall, relevance i s rated as substantial.

Efficacy

7.2     The over-arching PDO has two elements, namely, promoting private investment and
competition inIndia's telecom sector and, strengthening the policy andregulatory
environment.

7.3      Liberalization o fthe telecom sector has ledto many public andprivate firms
competing and investing (element 1) inthe Indian telecoms market. BSNL, BhartiAirtel Ltd,
Reliance Communications Ltd andVides Sanchar Nigam Ltdwere all issued licenses for
inter-circle domestic long distance service duringproject implementation. Relative freedom
o f entry into the market has resultedinthere now being7 wireline, 12 wireless, 13 (main)
broadband, and 32 internet service providers. The market, however, is dominated by a few
large firms. BSNL still provides 83 percent o fthe wireline services, while 86 percent o f
internet services are providedby the top five 0perat0rs.l~Nevertheless the market is vibrant
and fiercely competitive, especially inrespect o fwireless providers. The wireline services are
considered less lucrative and therefore fewer firms are willing to enter this market. Table 7.1
below also shows the phenomenal growth inthe sector over the last ten years.

Table 7.1 Growthof Indian Telecom Sector 1997-2007




Source: TRAI. Data as o f March31, 2007.




l3Data fiomTRAI Performance Indicators Report, Jan 1,2008.

                                                 13


7.4      The number o fwireless subscribers has grown almost exponentially, while the
number of fixed wireline subscribers has peaked. Inthe nine month period that has occurred
since the figures given inthe table above, the number o f fixed wireline subscribers has
actually fallen to 39.58 million. FDIinthe telecom sector has grown more than five times
over the decade, while the cost o f a local phone call has fallen from nearly 17 INRto just one
INRperminute,thoughthisis also partlydueto technologicalchangetoo.

7.5      While a number o f factors have contributed to the huge expansion o fthe sector, TRAI
has linked major milestones to the rate o f growth including permitting tariffreductions, the
introduction o f a unified access regime, lowering access deficit charges, allowing cheaper
handsets to be sold, and allowing cheaper intra-network calls. Most o f these measures
resulted after multiple consultationpapers that were fbnded under the Bankproject. IEG
contends that while the effect o f the technical assistance (and Banktechnical advice) was
often not readily measurable, TRAI, other agencies, and their users were very positive about
the support given from the project and indicated that the project didplay a substantial role.
Efficacy is rated substantial for PDO, element 1.

7.6       Onthe repulatorv side (element 2) a number o fissues were analyzed with a view to
improving the policy and regulatory environment inthe sector. These included policy
guidelines andrulings on specific problems including spectrum management, licensing and
inter-connectionissues, as well as regulations pertaining to broadcasting and cable services.
Muchwas done to improve awareness of issuesby the public including seminars and
workshops, but also through the development o fbetter websites, performance indicators, and
appropriate training. TRAI has produced a handbook for consumers which outlines the rights
ofthe consumer andincludes a charter for the provision o ftelecom services. There is also a
list o f consumer organizations registered with TRAI. The ability o fthe DOT to manage the
allocation o fradio frequencies and ensure compliance with laid-down standards has also
improved, despite initial delays. The investments incapacity buildingwere all carried out
according to schedule and staff interviewed confirmedthat the training was vital to enable
them to fulfill their functions ina fast-changing environment. Efficacy i s rated substantial for
PDO, element 2, and also substantia2 overall.

Efficiency

7.7       It is on the efficiency side where the project hadthe most shortcomings. Project
delays insystems installation ledto the benefits o f the new systems not being hlly realized
untilover three years after the original closingdate ofthe project. The SHF portiono fthe
project was also cancelled andwhile at this time only ten percent o f interference complaints
arise from use o f the spectrum above the 3 GHz band, this percentage may grow inthe
future. Itwas not possible to calculate an economic rate o freturn for this project, because o f
a lack o f suitable data andbecause o f attribution issues, but there is no doubt that both the
above factors would have negatively affected the benefit stream and added to the costs. In
addition, there i s the fact that too much capital was tied-up inthe initial capital estimates for
the project, andinthe end less than halfo f the original project cost was actually disbursed.
Efficiency is rated modest.

                                                 14


OverallRating

7.8     Taking into account the progress towards achieving the PDO and the assessmentso f
relevance, efficacy and efficiency, IEG's overall rating is moderately satisfactory. The
shortcomings inrespect o f the equipment component, which was by far the largest inthe
project, were too important to permit a fully satisfactory rating.

Riskto DevelopmentOutcome

7.9     The capacitybuildinginitiative inthis project has helped to enhance the capacity o f
agencies that are well regarded and indeedhave an international reputation. TRAI and
TDSAT receivevisits from other developing country agencies eager to learnfrom the Indian
experience. Performance monitoring, dispute settlement andpublic awareness aspects inthe
sector have been particularly well handled. The DOT has been able to make an important
contribution at the working groups o f the ITU. Sector reform has received a substantial
overhaul duringthe last five years andi s well set to cope with a technological environment o f
constant change.

7.10    The ASMS and NSMS are functioning adequately, but have not yet reached their full
potential, since the former i s not yet fully automated as originally envisaged and the latter
lacks the capability to monitor the SHF part o f the spectrum. There are also still problems in
the allocation of spectrum between the public and private sectors and an overall spectrum
management plan i s lacking. This i s also reflected inthe lack o fpriority givento publishing
the IWAP.Some concerns are evident due to a lack o f suitable qualified staff inthe DOT, but
this ispart o fa generic probleminthe Indiancivil service which the GO1is addressing
separately. Onbalance, Indiai s on track to develop into a dynamic and competitive
communication and technology market inAsia, and the risk to development outcome o f this
project failing i s seen as negligible to low.

Bank Performance

7.11    The Bank did a goodjob inconvincing GO1to expand the project design to give
general institutional support to the sector reforms. The Bank's international experience and
impartial advice certainly added value to the rollout o fthe training and other technical
assistance and inparticular helpedbuildthe reputation and credibility o f TRAI. It also
supervised the capacity buildingcomponent well and gave specific advice at GOI's request
which it received verypositively. The Bank showed flexibility in a fast-changing
environment. For example, when TRAI's role was extended to include broadcasting signals
andthe authority had an urgent needto buildcapacity inthat domain, the Bank was able to
accommodate this addition swiftly.

7.12    However, the cost estimation for the project was seriously over-valued despite the use
o f experienced experts indetermining "appropriate" amounts. More thought could have gone
into the monitoring indicators specified, and the implementation risks, though properly
identified, were under-estimated. Quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. The
supervision problems o fthe equipment procurement, installation and commissioning were
well-documented andit is clear that extensive andrepeateddiscussion took place concerning

                                                      15


the inadequacy ofthe PIU andthe need to retainan experienced project manager. Butthe
discussions didlittle to change the situation on the ground andinterventions at a higher
management level by the Bank do not appear to havebeen effective.14 Quality o f supervision
is rated as moderately satisfactory and overall Bankperformance i s deemed moderately
satisfactory.

BorrowerPerformance

7.13    Government. The Borrower participatedwith commitment duringpreparation, but
loan negotiations were delayed by around eight months inthe appointment of consultants to
assist WPC to prepare biddingdocuments. This delay was due to difficulty insecuring GO1
approval for the selection o f consultants under Bank guidelines, which differ from GOI's
ownprocedures. However, given the large portfolio o fBank-supported projects being
handledby the GOI, this delay i s surprising. Some o fthe later difficulties experienced during
implementation could also havebeenunblockedwith more proactive action from
government. Moderately satisfactory.

7.14    ImplementingAgencies. The performance o f the agencies inrespect o f capacity
buildingwas very positive and few significant problems were encountered. However, the
WPC component experienced considerable delays because ofproblems with contractors, and
a lack o f empowerment and decision-making capacity inthe PIU. Conversely, the PIUcould
haveplayed a more proactive role inbringingto management's attention issues that needed
urgent resolution. Moderately satisfactory. The overall Borrower performance is rated
moderately satisfactory.

8.      Lessons

8.1     A number o fimportant lessons canbe gleaned from the design andimplementationo f
thisproject:

e       Whenthe experience o fthe implementing agency inmanagingprojects is limited, and
        especially when such projects are complex, it is essential to appoint a project
        management consultant early-on to compensate for any gaps inexpertise. Most o fthe
        difficulties experienced inthe implementationo f the Telecom Sector ReformProject,
        involving the modernizationo fthe country's radio frequency and licensing system,
        were attributable to inability to take decisions and lack o f capacity to find solutions to
       problems;

e       Ina sector where technology advancement is akeydriver ofchange, itisnecessary to
       buildsufficient flexibility and foresight into the projects. Inthe IndiaTelecom
        Reform Project, flexibility allowed for project realignment duringimplementation,
       when required, thus facilitating a redefinition o fneeds. An example o f this was an
       unexpected need to gain an understanding o f televisionbroadcasting signal
       technology. However, with regardto the need for foresight, a better understanding o f


14Onmost missions the issues were raised at least at AdditionalSecretary level

                                          16


   the relationship betweenrapid technological change andproject costs could have
   avoided a serious overestimate o f equipment costs, and this would have saved US$
   331,000 infront-end fees, while the Bank would havebetter utilizedpart o f its loan.
   Obsolescence also occurs more quickly inthe telecommunications field and so it i s
   critical to avoid delays inproject completion;

e  Investing incapacity buildingandinstitutional development is critical to ensuring
   effective project implementationandproject sustainability. This was a crucial aspect
   o f strengthening the regulatory anddispute settlement framework inIndia. However,
   itis equally important inensuring operational effectiveness, especially for equipment
   design, procurement and installation. Such investments need to be supported by clear
   leadership and a willingness to implement reforms at a senior level. Sometimes the
   prevailing organizational andbusiness culture can impede satisfactory progress due to
   competing priorities and agendas. When such a serious blockage i s encountered the
   issue shouldbe elevated to an appropriate level o f decision-making and, ifnecessary,
   pursued on a programmatic or multi agency basis.

                                           17


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

TELECOMMUNICATIONS          SECTORREFORMTECHNICAL              ASSISTANCEPROJECT
(LOAN 4555-IN)


                   ata(amountsin US$million)
                                               _I--

                                         Appraisal       Actual or       Actual as % of
                                         estimate     current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                        72.00           33.00               45.8
Loan amount                                62.00           28.00               45.2
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                               33.38




ProiectDates
                                               Original                    Actual
--I___
Negotiations                                  04/24/2000               04/24/2000 I_-_-_-




Board approval                                06/06/2000               06/06/2000
Signing                                       08/11/2000               08/11/2000
Effectiveness                                 08/29/2000               06/29/2000
Closing date                                  12/31/2004               03/31/2006



StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                              ActualLatest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                     US$ (`000)
Identification/Preparation             12.2                              94
AppraisaVNegotiation                   56.0                            353
Supervision                            56.0                            557
ICR                                      8.3                             72
Total                                133.0                            1,076

                                                 18


Mission Data
                     Date      No. of Persons and Specialty (e.g. 2   Performance Rating
                (month/year)        Economists, 1 FMS, etc)          Implement.  Develop.
                                                                      Progress    Object.
Identification/ Dec. 1997             1 Sr. Private Sector
Preparation                           DevelopmentSpecialist,
                                      1Economist
               Apr. 1998              1 Economist, 1 Senior
                                      FinancialAnalyst, 1 Private
                                      Consultant
                Oct. 1998             1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst, 1 Pr.
                (pre-appraisal)       Telecoms Engineer, 1
                                      ProcurementAnalyst, 1
                                      Financial Management
                                      Specialist, 1 Pr. Financial
                                      AnaIyst
Appraisal/      Mar. 1999       8     1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst, 1 Pr.
Negotiation                           Telecoms PolicySpecialist, 1
                                      Pr. Telecoms Engineer, 1 Sr.
                                      ProcurementSpecialist, 1
                                      Financial Management
                                      Specialist, 1Telecoms
                                      Advisor, 1 Economist, 1
                                      Director
               Jan-Feb 2000     3     1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst, 1          S         S
                                      ProcurementAnalyst, 1 Sr.
                                      ProcurementSpecialist
Supervision    Sept-Oct2000     3     1 Pr. Telecoms Policy              S         S
                                      Specialist, 1 Senior Financial
                                      Analyst, 1
                                      ConsultanVEngineer
               Mar-Apr.2001     1     1 ConsultanVEngineer               S         S
               Sept. 2001       2     1 PrincipalTelecom Specialist,     S         S
                                      1 PrincipalTelecom Engineer
               Nov.2002         2     1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1       U         S
                                      consultant
               May 2003         1     1Telecom Engineer                  S         S
               Sept. 2003       3     1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1       S         S
                                      Consultant/Engineer,1 Senior
                                      Counsel
               Dec.2003         1     1 ConsultanVEngineer               S         S
               Mar.2004         2     1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1       S         S
                                      ConsultanVEngineer
               Sept-Oct.        3     1 Lead Telecom Specialist, 1       S         S
               2004                   ConsultanVTelecom Engineer,
                                      1 Lead OperationsOfficer

                                    19


           Date    No. of Persons and Specialty (e.g. 2  Performance Rating
       (month/year)     Economists, 1 FMS, etc)         Implement.  Develop.
                                                         Progress    Object.
       Mar 2005     3     1 LeadTelecom Specialist, 1       S         S
                          ConsultantlTelecom
                          Engineer, 1 Sr. ICT Policy
                          Specialist
       Oct 2005     4     1 LeadTelecom Specialist, 1       U         S
                          ConsultanVTelecomEngineer,
                          1 Lead OperationsOfficer, 1
                          Sr. ICT PolicySpecialist
ICR    Mar 2006     3     1 LeadTelecom Specialist, 1
                          Sr. ICT PolicySpecialist
       May 2006     3     1 LeadTelecom Specialist, 1
                          Sr. ICT Policy Specialist, 1
                          ICT PolicySpecialist

                                          20


Annex B ConsultanciesSupervisedby TRAI underthe
            -
World BankLoan(No. 4555-IN) and their Utilization


    ConsultancvincludingWorkshom &- Utilization
                 ~~     ~~~




    Seminars

1.  StudyonAccounting Separation           Study was utilized for finalizing the Accounting
    (Consultant-M/s A.F. Ferguson)         Separation Regulation for telecommunication
                                           services
2.  Study onthe Cost of Capital            Studywas carriedout to decide the rates o freturn
    (Consultant-M/s CRISIL)                to be usedwhile finalizing pricingand Interconnect
                                           User Charges (IUC) for the telecom industry and
                                           the quantum o fAccess Deficit Charges (ADC). The
                                           inputsreceivedthrough the study have beenusedto
                                           standardize the methodology to estimate the cost of
                                           capital.
3.  Studyon the Quality of Service ofBasic Studywas to assist TRAIinits function to monitor
    and Cellular Services (Consultant-     the quality o f service providedbythe service
    IMRB,NewDelhi)                         providers andto ensure the quality of service. The
                                           consultant carried out a detailed objective
                                           assessment o f the quality service providedby the
                                           Basic and Cellular Service Providers against the
                                           parameterslaid down inthe Quality of Service
                                           Regulation for a period of four quarters (October
                                           2001 to September, 2002) and also the subjective
                                           assessment o f the customer satisfaction survey.
4.  Short consultancy on estimation of     Through this study, the consultants submitteda
    ADC/IUC based on forward looking       software as well as amodel for calculation of
    LRIC and other models (Consultant-M/s  IUC/ADC inIndia, which was utilized for
    ANALYSYS ConsultingLtd.,U.K)           finalizing the IUC Regulation.
5.  Short consultancy on Implementationof  Thereport was utilized for finalizing the IUC
    InterconnectionUsage Charge (IUC)      Regulation.
    Regime inIndia (Consultant -Mr.
    Edgardo Sepulveda, Canada).
6.  Competition Seminar -Seminar was       Utilizedfor framing the recommendation on DLC
    organized on 6-7, October, 2003 by     and IPLC competition issues and access to landing
    TERI on behalfo fTRAI                  stations.
7.  Mergers & Acquisitions inthe Telecom   The report was utilized for finalizing the
    Industry:Lessons from other countries  Recommendations on Mergers and Acquisitions in
    (Consultant-M/s ICRA Advisory          the telecomindustryinIndia.
    ServicesLtd.)

                                           21


-
8.  Consultancy and Workshop on             A detailed recommendation on Growthof Internet
    Broadband Technologies and related      and Broadband was sent to the Government and the
    regulatory issues-Workshop was          Government issuedthe BroadbandPolicy, 2004.
    organizedby ICRIER on behalf o f TRAI
    on 2gthand 30thJanuary 2004.
    (Consultant: Mr.Christopher Stanford
-   Beale).
9.  Consultancy for advising TRAI to        The study helpedTRAIto formulate its
    finalize                                recommendations on issues relating to broadcasting
    Recommendations/Regulations/Tariff      and distribution of TV channels.
    Orderson Cable TV Services
    (Consultant-M/s Media PartnersAsia
-   Ltd).
10. Study on the assessmento fmonthly       Inthe absenceofstructured data, this limitedsurvey
    cable rate and revenue share            helpedTRAIto focus onrelevant issuesrelatingto
    arrangementbetween Broadcasters,        Broadcasting and Cable Services.
    MSOsand local cable operators
-   (Consultant -M / s IMRB,New Delhi)
11. Follow-up Studyto finalize              The study helpedto formulate TRAI's
    Recommendations/Regulations/Tariff      recommendations on issues relating to broadcasting
    Orders on Cable TV Services             and distributionof TV channels.
    (Consultant-M/s MediaPartnersAsia
-   Ltd.)
12. Study on Guidelinesfor Competition in The reportprovides a comprehensive framework
    a Multi-service, Multi-operator Network pertaining to various competition-related issues
    (Consultant -M / s M c Kinsey & Co)     relevant for India. The case studiedreferences given
                                            inthereportareusedto understandthe
                                            InternationalPractices on a number o fregulatory
-                                           issues.
13. Study on Spectrum Policy: Efficient     Studywas utilized for finalizing the detailed
    Utilization, Management and Pricing     recommendations on Spectrum Issues.
    (Consultant-M/s Aegis System Ltd.,
-   U.K.)
14. Development of User Specific            Results of the analysis on comparison o f Tariff
    Application Software for comparison of  Plans givenby the consultant were posted on
    Tariff plans intelephony inIndia-       TRAI's website for information o fthe consumers of
    (Consultant-M/s TERI) Phase- 1& 2.      Mumbai and Delhi.
15. Study onQuality o f Service ofBasic and Studywas to assistTRAIinits function to monitor
    Cellular Services (Consultant -M / s    the quality of service providedby the service
    IMRB,NewDelhi)                          providers and to assure the quality o f service. The
                                            consultant carriedout a detailed objective
                                            assessment of the quality service providedby the
                                            Basic and Cellular Service Providers against the
                                            parameters laid down inthe Quality o f Service
                                            Regulation for a period of four quarters (October,
                                            2003 to September, 2004) and also the subjective
-                                           assessment o f customer satisfactory survey.
16. Implementation of I S 0 9001:2000      TRAIobtained I S 0 9001: 2000 certificationonits
-   Quality Management: (Cons. RITES)       functioning, procedures and processes.

                                            22

-
17, Number Portability (Consultant -M / s        Consultant's report was utilized for finalizing
     O W ' UK)                                   Recommendations on Mobile Number Portability
-                                                whichhave been sent to the Government.
18. Directory Enquiry(Consultant -M / s          Study report was utilized for finalizing
     K.M.D.Consultants)                          Recommendations on publication of Telephone
                                                 Directory and Directory Enquiry Services already
-                                                sent to the Government.
19.  Studyon growth of Internet (Consultant      A detailed recommendation on growth of Internet
    -Prof.DheerajSanghi,IIT,Kanpur)              and Broadband was sent to the Government and the
-                                                Government issued the BroadbandPolicy, 2004.
20.  Studyofissuesrelating to Migration          A DetailedRecommendation onMigrationfrom
     from Ipv4 to Ipv6 inthe country             Ipv4 to Ipv6 was sent to the Government.
     (Consultant -Mr.LatifLadid,
     Luxemburg)
21.  Studyon Auditing ofBillingand             ~~Consultant's report was utilized for finalizing
     Charging (Consultant -M/sTUV                Regulationon Code of Practice for Meteringand
     SuddeutshlandIndiaPvt. Ltd.,jointly         BillingAccuracy.
-    with M / s BABT, UK)
22.  Short Consultancy on Spectrum Policy        Studywas utilized for finalizing the detailed
     (2"d Study): (Consultant-M/s Aegis          recommendations on Spectrum Issues.
     System Ltd.UK)
23.  InternationalTrendon Digitalization of      Reportwas utilized for finalizing TRAI's
     Cable Network (Consultant-M/s Media         Recommendations on Digitalizationo f Cable TV.
-    PartnersAsia Ltd.)
24. Digitalization of Cable Network              Reportwas utilized for finalizing TRAI's
     (Technical and Costing)  -(Consultant-      Recommendations on Digitalization of Cable TV.
-    M / s Ernst & Young)
25.  InternationalTrend on Satellite Radio - Inputsreceivedthrough the study were utilized for
    (Consultant -M / s Telecom Strategies        finalizing TRAI's Recommendations on Satellite
     Inc. Ltd., USA)                             Radio.
26.  Short training-cum-consultancyon            Study was utilizedto obtain inputson growth of
     `Study ofMobile Services Growthin           mobile services inChina for comparative analysis
    China' (Consultant -Mr.DuncanClerk)          withthe growthtrendincellular servicesinIndia.
27.  Short training-cum-consultancyon            Study was utilized for finalizing the detailed
     Spectrumrelated issues (Consultant - recommendations on Spectrum Issues.
-   Mr.DavidSallant)
28.  Short Consultancy on Study o f              The report o f the study as given by the Consultant
    IPLC/DLC inIndia (Consultant -M / s          was usedto Benchmark the tariffs obtained inthe
    Ernst& Young)                               KeyAsia-Pacific markets inrespect o fIPLC &
                                                DLC. Further, the InternationalRegulatory
                                                Practices governingRegulation o f IPLC & DLC
                                                 sector as given inthe report was utilized inthe
                                                 framing of Tariff Policy for these services inIndia.
29. Regulatory issues relatingto Access          Studywas conducted to assess the suitability of
    Service Provision by Cable T.V.             Cable TV network for voice telephony. Consultant
    Operators (Consultant- Mr.KnudEric          recommended that the existing Cable TV network
    Skouby o f Denmark)                         inIndiaisnot suitable for voice telephony. Onthe
                                               basis of Consultant's report and its own analysis,
                                                the Authority decided not to make any
-                                              recommendation on the subject at this time.

                                             23



                                              Convergence Bill, which was to be presentedto the
                                              Parliament. The main features of the report were
                                              forwarded to the Government. Inaddition, the
                                              report has also beenutilized inframing
                                              recommendations on UnifiedLicensing.
3 1.   Study on Affordability of              Report o fthe Consultant was utilized for Tariff
       Telecommunication Services             Rebalancing exercise conducted byTRAI.
       (Consultant -NCAER, New Delhi)
32.    Study on Interconnection Benchmarking  Objective o fthe study was to gather international
     I Ratesfor India (Consultant -M / s      experience on interconnection benchmarking rates
       OVUM,U.K.)                            1inorder to work out anappropriate rate for India.   1
Source: TRAI

                                      24


Annex C.BorrowerComments


               Smt. Aparna Sinha
               Deputy Director(FB)
               Tek23093404
               Fax:23092477




      Dear Ms. Huppi,

             Please refer to World Bank's fetter dated 3rdJune 2008 seeking GO1
      comments on the draft Project Performance Assessment Report         - World
      BankassistedTelecom Sector ReformTA Project.

             This Department had taken up the matter with Telecorn Regulatory
      Authority of India (TRAI) and Ministry of Communication & Information
      Technology (MoC&lT). The comments received from TRAf and MoC&IT on
      the said draft report are enclosed for your consideration and for appropriate
      inclusionof the same inthe final report.

             With regards,


                                                                 Yours sincerely,

      End: AIA                                                       w/
                                                                  (Aparna Sinha)

      Ms. Monika Huppi
      Manager
      Sector Evaluation Division
     IndependentEvaluationGroup
     The World Bank,
      1&?8 H Street N.W.,
     Washington D.C. 20433 U.S.A,
     Through New DelhiOffice.

02-112008-Coord                                         3 a t d :94.07.2908

To,
?he Deputy Director(FB)
Departmentof EconomicAffairs
(Fund Bank-VI)
Ministryof Finance,
NorthBlock, New elelhi

Sir,

Subject : Telecornrnutllcationa Sector Reform Tecimicai Assistance
             ProjectL.M.4855-fM Reg Cornnenblviews d DOTOR the draft
                                     -
             projectperformanceassessmentreport


      With reference to Department of Economic Affah O.M. No.711197-FB.VI
dated 9" June 2008, f am directed to inform that the ghm~afjonin respect of
                                                             is on the
the ImplementationCompletionReportand we have no
TRAI made in the Draft Project PerformanceAssessmentZ-sortcommentstoline of
                                                                       offer
on the subject.


                                                            Vmrs faithfuIty,
                                                                  A




                                                         Tei No. 23231929

                                26


                             Nd. 8/39/2005-Restg.
                      Ministryof Communicationsand IT
                      Departmentof Telecommunications
                20, Ashoka Road, Sanchar Bhawan,New Delhi.

                                           '   Dated: lgthSeptember,2008


                          OFFICEMEMORANDUM



Subject       India -Telscom  Sector Reform TA project Comments on
                                                         -
              draft ProjectPerformanceAssessmentMissionregarding.


      T!w undersignedis directedto refer to your Office OM No. 711197-FB-
VI d&es PJum2008 on the above subject and to convey the comments of
the Dqmiment inthe enclosedAnnexure on some specific Parasof the draft
Project ?erformance Assessment Report of Independent Evaluation Group
(IEG), b"P'orldSank on "India Telecommunications Sector Reform Technical
                             -
Assistance Project". The Department agrees with remaining paras of the
above said draft report.

Enclcsxe: As above.

                                                                --%-Ad
                                                            (S.P.Sharma)
                                                  Under Secretary (Res$.)
                                             Ph: 233720681FAX: 23372499

Comments of Deparfment of Tslecorn on draft Project Performance
Assessment Report of independent E v a w n Group, World Bank on
"India Tetecorn Sector Reform Vechniczd rcsSIsaaKlcePr~iect"
       -
Para4.5   Consultants were hired in the voject as and when it was
          required.

Para4.6   WPC Wing of the Departmer;*,:?sictaken advice from PMC on
          each and every issueduringtheir tP-nUre under the project.

Para4.8   Contractors couid not complete tfre works on time, due which
          loanamount couid not befully udikzecf.

Para 6.5  Report mentioned that perskeiit . belays continuing after
          extension of the project closing 4Se led to the canceltation of
          the SHF part of the project has been proposed for cancellation
          as the Contractors are unable   meet technical specifications.

Para 6.6  Report stated that Automated +wetrum Management System
          (ASMS) was installed and p&h:ljj       wtomated. This is not
         correct. The ASMS has been r t e fully operational and is in
          US@.

Para 6.7 The draft NFAP 2005 is c M f b@ngfinalized taking into
         account the recommendationcf -FJWRC 2007.  -
Para 7.10 Due to inadequate staffing, the&?u`potentialof ASMS and NSMS
         could not be exploited,
                                  ***


