Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2732-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
SECOND CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 6, 1980
Tl docuIent ha a restried disribution and may be use by retpients only in the perforance of
their ofel dutIes. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank a_thoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
In August 1979, the Bang:Ladesh Taka was officially devalued relative
to the Pound Sterling to a rate of Tk 34.7 to the Pound. The Pound Sterling
now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate
is subject to change, although it has been fairly stable for some time at
around Tk 15.5 per Dollar. The rate below has been used throughout this
report except where otherwise stated.
US$1.00         =   Taka 15.5
Taka 1          =   US$0.0645
Taka 1 million      US$64,516
NEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
cum     -   cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
gcd     -   gallons (Imperial  per capita per day
ha      -   hectare (10,000 m  or 2.47 acres)
km      -   kilometer (0.62 miles)
1       -   liter (0.22 Imperial Gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd     -   liters per capita per day
m       -   meter (39.37 inches)
N       -   million (Dollars or Taka)
mgd     -   million Imperial gallons per day
ml      -   million liters or ].,000 cubic meters
mld     -   million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial
gallons per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
mm      -   millimeter (0.04 inches)
Sq. K   -   square kilometer (0.386 sq. miles)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   The Asian Development Bank
AIC     -   Average Incremental Cost
CMC     -   Chittagong Municipal Corporation
DPHE    -   Department of Public Health Engineering
ECNEC   -   Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
GON     -   Government of the Netherlands
MLGRD   -   Ministry of Local Government Rural
Development and Cooperatives
PEC     -   Project Evaluation Committee
WASA    -   Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:        Chittagong Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA)
Amount:             US$20 Million
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be onlent from GOB
at 7 percent per annum over a period of 25 years, in-
cluding five years of grace. GOB will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Purpose:            The project will provide additional supplies of water
to meet the needs of Chittagong's growing population and
industry up to 1990. Included in the project are: a new
water intake and treatment plant with a capacity of 90 mld
(20 mgd), six tubewells, modifications to an existing iron
removal plant and pumping station to expand its treatment
capacity from 45(10) to 70 mld (15 mgd), and associated
distribution works. The project provides for about 14,000
service connections with meters, some 1,500 public stand-
pipes and two public water concessions, which are being
introduced on an experimental basis. There is also a pro-
vision for training and engineering services for project
supervision, and for preparation of an appropriate sewerage/
sanitation plan. Direct benefits of regularly available
wholesome water supplies and improved access to public
hydrants will be supplemented by improvements in public
health and environmental conditions.
There are no special physical risks associated with the
project. The institutional risks are somewhat greater,
-however, and full support of GOB and continued managerial
improvements will be necessary to achieve the project's
financial objectives.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project                                   Local  Foreign  Total
Costs:                                            ------US$ Million----
Equipment and Civil Works                 9.5      7.9    17.4
Engineering Services                      1.2     0.7      1.9
Training                                  0.1     0.1      0.2
Land Acquisition                          0.2      -       0.2
11.0     8.7    19.7
Contingencies
(i)  Physical                           0.9     0.8      1.7
(ii)  Price                              4.1     2.3      6.4
Net Project Cost                         16.0    11.8    27.8
Duties and taxes                         11.9      -      11.9
Total Project Costs                      27.9    11.5    39.7
Financin  Plan:                                GOB    IDA   WASA   Total
N'et of taxes and duties)                            US$ Million---
3.9   20.0    4.0   27.9
Estimated                               FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Disbursements:                        ---------- US$ Million
Annual               0.2    5.7    6.0    6.0    2.1
Cumulative           0.2    5.9   11.9   17.9   20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       About 9%
Appraisal Report:  Bangladesh - Second Chittagong Water Supply Project,
December 19, 1979, Report No. 2701a-BD



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I subm t the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$20.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance the Second Chittagong Water
Supply Project. The proceeds of the Credit would be relent to the Chittagong
Water and Sewerage Authority for 25 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Trends and Devel-
opment Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on December 15, 1978. An updated Country Economic Memorandum is currently
being prepared by an economic mission which visited Bangladesh in October 1979;
it will be distributed in early 1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically during these troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence
level only in 1975/76; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per
year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels
near minimum standards. The terms of trade worsened considerably and the
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the troubles. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national government
from a provincial administation, and the consolidation of Government authority
were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy makers in the first half of
the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, have signaled a significant shift in the conditions of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. The late
1970s may be characterized as a period of consolidation and economic recov-
ery--following the shocks of the early 1970s--in which planners and policy
makers had an opportunity to focus on the longer-term needs of development.
In recognition of its needs for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) has given GOB
officials time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.



Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who hacd won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        The year FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for
the Bangladesh economy. Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1
million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output, GD)P grew by nearly 8%
in real terms, following a 2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past
year has again demonstrated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy.
During this period, economic deve:Lopments were dominated and largely determined
by the consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and
floods. These conditions affectedl adversely both the foodgrain crops (which
represent roughly one-third of GDP) and the size and quaLity of the jute crop;
they also had repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation,
which was aggravated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid
rises in rice prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth
slowed sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually real per capita
incomes rose barely, if at all. C)n the positive side, however, FY79 brought
a continuing strong performance oi- the construction sector, improved budgetary
performance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of signi-
ficant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of eaxchange rate manage-
ment and public sector pricing. B3ut due to the continuing effect of the
1978-79 drought, the current outlook for FY80 is that GD]? growth will be well
below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budgoet.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant. that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY1979 was considerab'Ly below the previous yesar's level. This
situation was compounded by a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of
food aid during the first half' of CY1979 and resulted in a fall in the per
capita availability of food and in increased rice prices to levels unrecorded
since the food crisis of 1975. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement
from the small crops, and high offtakes under the ration system, led to a
rapid depletion of public food stocks. In contrast to the targeted level of
one million tons, stocks fell to only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.
Below this level, it is generally conceded, the public foodgrain distribu-
tion system is liable to break down, with the dire consequences that this
could entail.
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at: the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort: to import and distribute the massive volume of



- 3 -
foodgrain needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and December 1979. This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.
Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the   her sectors
of the economy was held to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other important bulk commodities and the shipment of
exports were impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain
imports. Nevertheless, the authorities were able to unload and distribute
this unprecedented volume of foodgrain imports in a minimal amount of time,
enabling offtake to be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more com-
fortable level. By the beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices
had begun to ease and what might have become a serious food crisis was averted.
9.        The slow growth of agricultural production has become the principal
focal point of concern among Bangladesh's top leadership and economic planners.
The Second Five-Year Plan is expected to give top priority--together with
population control--to agriculture, and especially to food production.
Meanwhile, the short-term food supply outlook is still problematic. The
public stock position at the end of CY1979 was adequate because of the sub-
stantial imports between July 1979 and December 1979. The current aman crop,
also affected by the drought, appears to be no better than last year's and
procurement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price increase--
will be very small. Consequently, in order to avert a repetition of the
CY1979 situation, considerable amounts of additional imports will be needed
in CY1980. The extent of these requirements will depend on the prospects for
the boro, wheat and aus crops, which cannot yet be ascertained. In any event,
efforts to ensure an adequate stock of foodgrain to meet 1980 consumption and
stock build-up requirements cannot yet be relaxed. A special meeting of the
Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in late January 1980 to consider the country's
food situation, import requirements and policy measures needed to prevent
future repetitions of the recent experience. A Bank report entitled
"Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues", prepared for consideration at that meeting,
was distributed to the Executive Directors in late December 1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in the
balance of payments. For example, the need to finance commercial purchases
of food imports was evidently a factor underlying GOB's rather cautious imple-
mentation of its import program. Other factors included the Government's
desire to defer the importation of non-essential items during the period
when the ports were expected to be congested with the food imports anticipated
to arrive during the last quarter of FY79. Delays in commitments of commodity-
aid also resulted in corresponding delays in the issuance of import licenses.
As a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
1/   Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



- 4 -
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies. The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were
still not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the
projected levels of FY80. Even with a continuing relatively favorable export
performance and a restrictive import policy, a substantial current account
deficit is projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume
and price of foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported
crude oil and petroleum products and other imports.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Altlhough exports increased by about 20% in FY79,
the trade deficit widened to almost $1 billion. The terms of trade appear to
have improved somewhat during the year. The value of raw jute exports totalled
US$143 million in FY79, a 47% increase over the previous year's receipts; this
reflected a 17% increase in vo:Lume and a 27% increase in prices. Jute goods
exports in FY79 were valued at US$276 million, an 11% increase over the pre-
vious year's receipts; a decline in export volume was mores than offset by a 27%
increase in unit prices. RelativeLy large gains were also recorded in exports
of leather, fish and shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the
notable developments on the import side in FY79 was the US$40 million decline
in food imports to a level of aboul US$200 million; this was some US$50 million
less than had been projected, owing mainly to the delays in food aid arrivals
noted above. Capital goods imports rose by 21% to US$384 million.  Fertilizer
imports nearly doubled in value, and there were significant increases also in
imports of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The FY79 current account deficit was considerab:Ly smaller than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of worker's remit-
tances. These receipts are now the second most important source of foreign
exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. A notable development
was the US$100 million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79, reflect-
ing in part the country's growing absorptive capacity. Total aid disburse-
ments, which exceeded US$1 billion for the first time, were equivalent to 63%
of total merchandise imports. Debt: service payments rose to US$95 million,
notwithstanding some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, and
the debt service ratio deterioratecl from 13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and ALugust 1979, GOB undertook a series of ex-
change rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about. 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocat:ion of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



- 5 -
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and (possible) new SDR alloca-
tions, the IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's financ-
ing requirements in FY80.
Public Finan~.e
14.       Public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve further
in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus to the
development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as relative terms.
Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a source of
budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless, inflation has
again become a serious problem, while the implementation of many projects, both
aid and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insufficient or tardy allocation
of domestic funds. This emphasizes the urgent need for further improvement in
the mobilization of domestic resources if the ratio of public investment to GDP
is to be raised above the 10% level of recent years.
15.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). The Government has shown growing awareness of the problem. In
October 1976 it established a Taxation Enquiry Commission, and in mid-1978 five
special committees to review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization.
The five committees reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the
food subsidy; (ii) rationalization of the rate structure of public transport
agencies; (iii) economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agri-
cultural input subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improve-
ment in the financial performance of public sector enterprises. The committees
recently concluded their work; the final report of the Taxation Enquiry
Commission was submitted to the Government in April 1979. Furthermore,
a detailed survey of the jute industry was recently completed for GOB by
Economic Consultants Ltd. (ECL).
16.       A start has been made to implement some of the recommendations of
these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the Taxation
Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax administration, have
been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the Government increased
railway fares, and in the course of CY1979 it raised foodgrain ration prices,
several utility rates and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises.
Fertilizer prices, for example, were increased by 28% in September 1979 and
petroleum product prices by up to 45% in November 1979. In some cases these
price adjustments only kept up with inflation, but in others they served to
reduce the subsidy burden in real terms.
17.       Development expenditures increased by almost 40% and total revenues
by about 21% in FY79; development-expenditures are projected to increase by
a further 29% and revenues by another 21% in FY80. Increased development
activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project aid,
which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a further
24% in FY80.



-6-
18.       As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic budgetary
deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as well.
but inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily by
too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into FY79,
especially in the latter part of t:he year when rice prices rose very rapidly.
The cost of living index (col) for urban consumers rose by an estimated 19%
between June 1978-June 1979 although the average col index for FY79, pushed
by a 48% increase in average rice prices was only 9% above that for FY78.
This rate should decline somewhat during the current fiscal year as a result
of efforts being made to slow down the rise in liquidity., In addition, acce-
lerated foodgrain imports and higher foodgrain production should contribute
to an abatement of inflationary pressure on consumer prices; in December 1979,
rice prices had in fact already receded by roughly 20% from their peak levels
of July and August.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing the plans the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade:
these include poor land use, lack of irrigation, inadequate public adminis-
tration, low domestic resource mobilization, and social impediments to change.
The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by the basic structural
conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to natural disasters;
a high rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution
of income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme
fragmentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly
rural population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy;
high unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities
outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for
investment financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in the next Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of food.  The potential for increasing agricul-
tural output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields are among the lowest in
Asia, cropping intensity is low, and fertilizer use still very modest. Except
for last year, when it was adv(ersely affected by the weather, fertilizer
demand has been growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded
quickly since FY75 and is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there
seems to be a large unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly
food production could be boosted remains to be determined. The Plan's targets
have yet to be announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.
21.       Recent projections 1,/ indlicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at roughly 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million
I/   World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Tablie 17, pg. 158.



by the year 2000 if a net reproduction rate of 1 were not reached until 2035.
These projections imply that the population growth rate, currently estimated at
about 2.5% -2.7% per annum, would not decline very dramatically over the next
15 to 20 years--a grim but seemingly realistic assumption in view of the
poor implementation and limited success of population control efforts in
Bangladesh so far. The implications of such a rate of population growth
for the development prospects of Bangladesh are staggering. The density of
population on cultivable land would increase from the present 3.8 persons per
acre to over 6.2 persons per acre by the end of the century. In a country
where the mainstay of the economy is agriculture and where food shortages are
already serious, the adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious.
Annual foodgrain requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption
level of about 15.5 ounces per day, would increase from about 14 million tons
at present to roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. For domestic produc-
tion to meet this requirement, it would almost have to double from its record
level of about 11.9 million tons (net of seed, feed and waste) achieved in
FY78. Substantial increases in cropping intensity and in yields will be
required, therefore, even to maintain food consumption at a subsistence
level.
22.       Without a drastic reduction in the rate of population growth a sig-
nificant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic needs and the
provision of public services also would be extremely difficult. By the same
token, it would become increasingly impossible to educate the rapidly growing
number of people and to provide gainful and productive employment opportun-
ities for them. In recognition of these factors, high priority is being given
by GOB to improving the performance of its population control and family
planning program. Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed
on the satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of
adequate clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The
planners recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and
other targets, but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their
achievement.
23.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements can
be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project implementation,
it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be adequate to
achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes that in certain
key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the private sector. It
also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such as education and rural
development should be carried out in a decentralized fashion, with greater
emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLAESH
24.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amountLng to US$148.6 M, made originally to Pakistan before 1971.
In addition, 39 ew credits have been approved, totaling US$1,126.7 M; of these,
US$575 M have been for program. credits (eight import program credits and one
fertilizer imports credit). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and disbursements as of January 31, 1979, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC,
and one investment for a shipbuilding and engineering company has been approved.
25.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 1/  (If workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.) While
the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 bil-
lion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; and because assistance is now entirely in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
26.       Of the 30 new project credits totaling US$551.7 M, US$22 M equiv-
alent consisted of a Second Dacca lWater Supply and Sewerage project. As
explained below in the discussion of the water supply and sewerage sector,
much remains to be done to improve water supply and sanitation, within the
constraints of reasonable financia:L limits.
27.       The main focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agricul-
ture (14 of the 30 projects, and one fertilizer imports credit). This is
consistent with the country's needs and the Government's priorities. Particular
emphasis continues to be placed on projects that provide agricultural inputs,
improve water management, develop rural infrastructure, process or provide
products for rural areas, and reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange
resources. The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector also, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower is also crucial., and lending in this f-ield has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training.
28.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfer of
resources and the persistent structural weakness of the economy, program lending
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations in Bangladesh.
The industrial sector has also benefited from DFC and small scale industry
projects and a fertilizer production project. IFC is currently in the pro-
cess of identifying further suitable investment opportunities.
29.       IDA should continue to provide assistance to critical infrastruc-
tural areas such as transportation, energy and power, and telecommunications.
A first power project was approved in late FY79 and a second highway project
was approved this FY.
30.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were
serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Some
progress has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture
is improving. IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under three technical
assistance credits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
31.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment - where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
32.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
33.       About a third of Bangladesh's area lies on the Ganges/Brahmaputra
Delta; rainfall, concentrated in the monsoon period, generally exceeds 1,500 mm
annually. This combination of abundant rainfall and great rivers entering
the country, along with a generally porous subsoil, ensures that water is
plentiful either from surface or underground sources. About 56% of the 85
million people now have reasonably safe supplies of tubewell water but the
remainder still depend on easily contaminated surface sources such as streams,
tanks and dugwells.



- 10 -
34.        Most public water supplies use groundwater which requires less
treatment and therefore is generally cheaper than surface water. Groundwater
supplies are generally adequate for present needs. However, interest in
surface water sources is growing especially in the cities of Dacca and
Chittagong because groundwater frequently contains iron and also because of
the possible long-term limitations of local aquifers in relation to rapidly
increasing urban requirements. Studies are being undertaken to determine
the maximum to which aquifers can be safely exploited.
35.        Sanitation is unsatisfactory and only Dacca has a water borne
sewerage system. Elsewhere there is limited use of septic tanks with the
bulk of the population dependent on municipal night soil collection systems
or direct disposal to fields. Compared with the 56% of the population having
wholesome water only about 8% benefit from waste disposal services. This
compares with an average access level of 38% to water and 33% to waste dis-
posal in all developing countries.
36.        Sector development has gradually improved over the past five or six
years; during this period investment in water supply and sewerage has been
about 7% of GOB development expenditures, a level which is unlikely to increase
in the near future given the urgent and competing claims of other sectors of
the economy.
Institutions
37.        GOB exercises control of the sector through the Mi-nistry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD). The agencies operat-
ing under MLGRD are the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE), the
municipalities, and the Water and Sewerage Authorities (WASAs) in Dacca and
Chittagong. Several international organizations are supporting these agencies'
activities. WHO and UNICEF have been active in the rural areas where a
program, extending through 1985, for the provision of hand pump tubewells
is in progress.  The total cost for this program through 1978 has been US$47
million, including US$14 million for rural sanitation.  Water supply projects
in Barisal, Bogra, Comilla, Jesscre and Mymensingh are being prepared for
consideration by the Asian Develcpment Bank.  Projects have been completed
in Dacca and Chittagong with IDA support and IDA has, under Credit 941-BD,
provided support for a second project in Dacca. In addi-tion, GOB has obtained
assistance from the Government of the Netherlands (GON) for a feasibility
study for projects in Khulna and Rajshahi. GOB has indicated that they will
seek financial support from IDA if projects emerge for R:hulna and Rajshahi.
38.        DPHE develops and executes water supply projects countrywide, except
for Dacca and Chittagong, and operates and maintains waterworks throughout the
rural areas. In urban areas, DPHE generally turns over operational and main-
tenance responsibilities to the municipalities. In the rural areas no charge
is made for water consumed.  In municipalities a charge is made for water
consumed by house connections; but this charge frequently covers only a small
percentage of the cost of operation, maintenance and depreciation. The remain-
ing costs are covered from the Government budget. Water from standpipes is
provided free of charge to the users. In Dacca and Chittagong where IDA
has been involved over a period of years, regular tariff structures are in



- 11 -
operation, and autonomous water and sewerage authorities (WASAs) have been set
up with responsibility for construction, operation and maintenance of water
supply and sanitation systems.
The Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (WASA)
39.       WASA functions as a semi-autonomous entity under MLGRD.  Its man-
agement is headed by a Chairman who is assisted by a secretariat, a commercial
division and an engineering division.  The organization, strengthened only
recently, is appropriate for WASA's needs and will facilitate future opera-
tional improvement. Prior to any reorganization, WASA will afford IDA a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views thereon (Section 3.07(b) of the
Project Agreement).
Training
40.       The steady increase in water supply facilities in the country has
placed a strain on available manpower. In rural areas, replacement of obso-
lete hand pump tubewells amounts to about one-third of the current pump instal-
lation program. Ordinary day-to-day maintenance is subject to delays due to
the lack of skilled repairmen and spare parts. Trained operators for tubewells,
water treatment plant and pumping stations in the urban areas are scarce, and
training facilities and instructors are needed for training of additional staff.
41.       Training for Chittagong WASA and Dacca WASA, mostly directed at the
upper levels of these organizations, was provided under Credits 367-BD and
368-BD, and has been supplemented by other multilateral and bilateral donors.
A training element in the recently started project for Dacca under Credit
941-BD is directed at operational staff, and focuses on the development
of a suitable in-house training capability. Provision is made for Chittagong
WASA to participate in this planned joint training effort. Ultimately, the
training organization is expected to develop into a nationwide vocational
training center for the sector (see paragraphs 63-64 below).
Problem Areas
42.       Extensions to Chittagong's water supply system during the period
1961-1979 kept abreast of the population increase during the same period
(from about 350,000 inhabitants in 1961 to about 600,000 inhabitants in 1979).
Per capita water supply in Chittagong, which had reached a level of about 47
lcd in 1961, reached a level of about 100 lcd in 1979, although if the 120,000
people in the urban fringe just outside WASA's area of supply are included, the
result is about 80 lcd for 1979.
43.       Water borne diseases and those arising from unsanitary conditions
represent one of the country's major health problems. Health benefits encour-
aged by hygiene education are critically dependent on access to safe water and
improved sewerage systems. Chittagong does not have a sewerage system; about a
third of the population have the benefit of septic tanks but the remainder make
use of fields or other open spaces for defecation or are dependent on a night



- 12 -
soil conservancy scheme operated by Chittagong Municipality. The additional
supplies of water being made available under the project will be distributed
over a much wider area than is presently served; and only a marginal effect on
existing drainage problems is expected.
Experience with Previous Project
44.        In the early 1960s GOB, with the assistance of consultants, estab-
lished a comprehensive water supply and sewerage development plan for
Chittagong. In 1963 the plan became the subject of an IDA Credit (42-PAK)
to the Government of Pakistan; but the scope of the proposal was beyond the
financial and institutional means of the newly establishedi Chittagong Water
and Sewerage Authority. In 1969 the credit was reduced from US$24.0 million
to US$7.0 million mainly by deferr:ing the proposed river abstraction scheme
and the proposals for a waterborne sewerage system and sewage treatment plant.
Political disturbance and war interrupted progress and disbursements were
suspended.  The project was reactivated in 1973 under a credil: to GOB (Credit
367-BD), and was expanded to inclucte the development of a well-field of 13
tubewells at Kalurghat, northeast of the city, and an associated treatment
plant (45 mld) to remove the iron present in solution in t:he water from the
tubewells. In addition the project: completed about 33 miles of water mains
begun under the earlier credit and a 14 ml (3 mg) service reservoir. The
project also included a training element. The project cost was US$25.0 million
equivalent 1/ and the credit of US$7.0 million has been fully disbursed;
contract payments have been completed except for a small amount of retention
monies.
45.        The objectives of the project were to (a) complete the physical
works and (b) establish WASA as an efficient and viable commercial under-
taking. Local contractors were slow but improved as they gained experience;
the inexperience of local agents caused procurement delays but WASA now
proposes to pre-qualify these agents. Slow customs clearance was also a
delaying factor but newly introduced procedures providing for book transfers
of customs and duties payments are expected to bring improvements. The physical
elements of the project were completed in 1978 and, although attended by teething
troubles (which are being eradicated), and some weakness at operators level,
(which is being treated by improved training), the whole apparatus is now
working reasonably well. Water production is affected by iron deposits
in pumps and pipes and by power outages; WASA has now introduced a program for
cleaning iron deposits and under the proposed project power outages will be
countered, to a reasonable degree, by standby generators. As a result of the
first project, water supplies increased from about 9 mld in 1963 to about 60
mld in 1978 bringing for the first time a 24 hour supply of good quality water
to the city. Institutional objectives have not been fully realized but
improvements have been made in a number of areas despite piersistent problems.
Overstaffing has been difficult to dleal with because of lalbor resistance but
this is a general problem in Bangladesh and is not restricted to WASA.
Because institutional problems persisted throughout the supervision of the
1/   Based on an exchange rate for l:he Taka averaged over the duration of
the project.



- 13 -
first project, particular attention has been given to incorporating appro-
priate managerial and financial improvements during the preparation and
appraisal of the proposed project. While management quality has varied
according to the ability of the incumbent chairman, the present incumbent
has shown signs of making definite improvement efforts since pre-appraisal.
Financial staffing was very weak in WASA's early days; although there has
been gradual improvement, additional progress is necessary and feasible.
The proposed project therefore includes a detailed program, formulated in
consultation with IDA, to achieve the financial and managerial improvements
necessary to place WASA on a sound commercial footing (see paragraphs 52-64
below). Particular emphasis will continue to be placed on billings and col-
lections, both of which have presented problems over the duration of the
first project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project was prepared by Chittagong WASA with the assist-
ance of consultants and Bank Staff and was appraised in June/July 1979. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2701a-BD dated February 28, 1980 is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in February 1980. The Government of Bangladesh and WASA were
represented by a delegation headed by Mr. Anisuzzaman, Secretary, MLGRD. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.       The proposed project will provide a new source of water which will
produce the additional supplies needed by Chittagong's growing population and
developing industry. Initial development of the source will meet needs up to
1990, but later expansion to meet future needs has been allowed for in design.
The existing tubewell facilities will be expanded to meet demand during devel-
opment of the new source. Complementary objectives of the proposed project
are:
(a) achieving further managerial and financial improvements
through implementation of a detailed improvement program;
(b) extending the distribution system to an additional 120,000
people who are now without convenient access to safe water;
providing full time service to about 90,000 people on
intermittent supplies;
(c) establishing WASA as sole authority for water basin control
and water supply within the area; and
(d) preparing a feasible sewerage/sanitation plan.
The preparation of the sewerage/sanitation plan is aimed at developing a
scheme to meet the requirements of those areas of the city where a suitable
alternative to water borne sewerage is not available, allied with proposals
for the conversion of bucket latrines to water sealed pit latrines or other



- 14 -
low-cost sanitary disposal methods for the remainder of the city. WASA will
hire consultants for such a study by September 1, 1980 (Section 2.02(b) of the
Project Agreement). Finance for this study would be made available under the
Third Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD).
Project Description
48.       The project will provide a new water intake and treatment plant at
Mohara near the confluence of the rivers Karnaphuli and Halda with a capacity
of 90 mld (20 mgd), six tubewells to provide early supplies while the Mohara
work is proceeding, modifications :o the existing Kalurghat iron removal plant
and pumping station to increase its capacity from 45 to 70 mld (10-15 mgd)
and associated distribution works. The project will also provide for 14,000
service connections with meters, some 1,500 public standpipes and two public
water concessions, which will be installed on an experimental basis. 1/  There
will also be provision for training and consultancy services.
Project Costs
49.       The costs of the project are as follows:
Local Foreign Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Equipment and Civil Works                  9.5      7.9    17.4
Engineering Services                       1.2      0.7     1.9
Training                                   0.1      0.1     0.2
Land Acquisition                           0.2       -      0.2
11.0     8.7    19.7
Contingencies
(i)  Physical                            0.9     0.8      1.7
(ii)  Price                               4.1     2.3      6.4
Net Project Cost                          16.0    11.8    27.8
Duties and taxes                          11.9       -     11.9
Total Project Costs
27.9    11.8    39.7
The estimates for equipment and civil works are based on bids for similar
equipment recently obtained in connection with the first project (Credit
367-BD) and on the cost of comparable work undertaken during 1979.  Physical
contingencies of 10% have been included. Price contingencies have been
calculated using an annual escalation of 10% for local costs and 12% (1979),
10-1/2% (1980), 9% (1981), 8% (1982) and 7% thereafter for foreign equipment.
Customs duties and taxes have been added in accordance with local regulations.
1/   A public water concession will comprise 6 to 8 standpipes in an enclo-
sure where water may be purchased from a concessionaire.



- 15 -
Detailed engineering, which will be undertaken by a domestic/expatriate joint
venture, is estimated to cost US$1.9 million, including about 2,760 man-months
of consultants' services and local office and transportation costs. The esti-
mated average man-month cost is US$510 (including salary, fees, international
travel and subsistence); the estimated average local man-month cost is US$220
(2,600 man-months) and the average expatriate man-month cost is US$6,560 (160
man-months).
Project Implementation
50.       WASA is responsible for the implementation of the project but will
be assisted by consultants in design, drafting of bid documents, bid evalua-
tion and construction supervision except in respect of tubewells and distri-
bution mains where WASA will carry responsibility (Section 2.02(a) of the
Project Agreement). Appointment of the consultants is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). Foreign
consultants are expected to associate themselves with a local firm. Major
construction is expected to be completed by mid-1984 and project completion
in all respects is scheduled for December 1984.
Financial and Institutional Improvements
Finance
51.       In each of the six years since Credit 367-BD was approved for the
first Chittagong water supply project, WASA has been unable to finance the
normal annual system extensions and a reasonable proportion of future major
expansion as required by a covenant under the project. Despite three tariff
increases between FY74 and FY79, WASA's financial performance remained unsatis-
factory for several reasons: water sales amounted to only about 50% of water
produced; there were no satisfactory arrangements for recovering the cost of
water supplied through public standpipes; programs for leak detection, waste
prevention or dealing with illegal connections were inadequate; cash collected
generally did not exceed 70% of annual billings (although an improvement to 83%
was recorded in 1979); and expenses, and staffing costs increased significantly.
GOB and WASA recognize that decisive improvement effort is required for WASA
to become a financially viable and well managed utility, and will therefore
carry out a major improvement program, as described below (paragraphs 52-64).
Present Financial Position
52.       Preliminary unaudited accounts for FY79 show that as of June 30,
1979 ratios for current assets/current liabilities and debt/equity were 4:1
and 33:67 respectively. Despite this favorable appearance the present finan-
cial position requires improvement for the following reasons:
(a) Fixed Asset Valuation
WASA has not maintained proper records of fixed assets,
whose values now are based on historic cost at the date
of transfer (1964) or subsequent acquisition. WASA has



- 16 -
recently completed a physical verification of its fixed
assets and has agreed to undertake a valuatiorL based on
current replacement costs. Completion of this valuation
is a condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit
(Section 5.01(f) of the Development Credit Agreement).
WASA will be required to revalue its fixed assets there-
after 'Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement). For this
purpose, an appropriate index, acceptable to IDA, has been
established; and revaluation will be carried out whenever
the index has increased by more than 10% since the previous
revaluation.
(b) Inventory Levels (Spare Parts)
WASA is carrying out for the first time a physical check
of all inventories. Storekeeping arrangements are unsatis-
factory and stores records are not reconciled with the finan-
cial records. Therefore, as a condition of credit effective-
ness, WASA will valtue its inventories as of June 30, 1980
(Section 5.01(g) of the Development Credit Agreement); and
thereafter progressively reduce its holdings to no more than
three months' requirements by June 30, 1982 (Section 4.05
of the Project Agreement:). GOB will make avaiLable to WASA
access to sufficient foreign exchange to maintain this level
of inventories (Section 3.11 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
(c) Arrears
At the time of appraisal., arrears owing to WASA from Gov-
ernment departments amounted to Taka 8.9 million, of which
Taka 6.2 million has since been paid. GOB has recently
provided confirmation that payment of a further Taka 1.0
million would be made prior to March 25, 1980. In addition,
GOB has undertaken that the entire remainder, including
amounts in dispute and all arrears which have aiccumulated
since June 30, 1979 will be cleared prior to any disburse-
ment out of the Credit, with the exception of disbursements
for consultants (Section 3.08 and Schedule 1 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Thereafter, GOB departments will
pay all charges within 30 days of billing (Section 3.07(b)
of the Development Credit Agreement (see also paragraph 56
below).
Tariffs
53.       Since FY74 domestic charges have increased by 200%, industrial by
330% and commercial by 350%. The imost recent increase was in September 1979.
While the recent increase, combined with the improvements in operational effi-
ciency and billing and collection described below, is expected to improve
WASA's finances significantly, it is estimated that a further increase would



- 17 -
be necessary to produce a 3% rate of return on historically valued assets in
FY80 and FY81. The Government will introduce revised tariffs increasing the
domestic tariff to Taka 7 per 1,000 gallons (currently Taka 6 per 1,000
gallons) and introducing a single tariff of Taka 20 per 1,000 gallons for
industrial and commercial customers (presently Taka 9 and 18 per 1,000 gallons
respectively). Announcement of such tariff increases, to become effective not
later than September 1, 1980, is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(h) of the Development Credit Agreement, and Section 4.08 of the Project
Agreement). Thereafter, further tariff increases will be required to provide
for WASA's contribution to the project (about 15% of total project costs) and,
subsequently for future expansion of the supply system. Therefore, GOB and
WASA will review and set tariffs for each fiscal year to ensure that for the
three years from July 1, 1981 (i.e., FY82-84) revenues are sufficient to cover
operating and administrative expenses, depreciation and to provide a rate of
return of 2-1/2% on currently valued net fixed assets. From July 1, 1984
(i.e., FY85), the rate of return on currently valued net fixed assets will
be increased to 3% in FY85, 4% in FY86, 5% in FY87 and 6% annually thereafter
(Section 4.09 of the Project Agreement). During the FY82-84 period, there-
fore, tariffs should not have to be raised beyond what would be required to
meet inflation, in view of the extra water that will become available from
new tubewells after July 1, 1981. On completion of the project in FY85, the
average tariff, expressed at FY80 prices is projected to be Taka 10 per 1,000
gallons against the present Taka 9.2 per 1,000 gallons. These rates are
considered reasonable in relation to consumer's ability to pay, representing
at most about 2-1/2% of monthly incomes.
Water Supplied through Public Standpipes
54.       WASA presently receives no payment for the supply of water to public
standpipes and, in earlier years, the payment made by Chittagong Municipal
Corporation (CMC) was insufficient to cover the cost of supplying water. In
FY80, the cost of supplying such water, calculated at the domestic tariff, is
about Taka 3.3 million. GOB will ensure that in future WASA receives prompt
payment for water consumed through public standpipes at the prevailing dom-
estic tariff (Sections 3.07(a) and (b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
To this end, WASA has begun to meter a representative number of standpipes
(Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
Water Supplied to Housing Colonies
55.       WASA presently supplies water at a rate of Taka 1.5 per dwelling
unit per quarter to several Government housing colonies in Chittagong ori-
ginally established for refugees from India at partition. In future, the
Government will ensure payment for such water at the prevailing domestic
tariff (Section 3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Billing and Collection
56.       Although WASA's billing and collection effort showed a slight improve-
ment in FY79, the record is generally unsatisfactory. Accounts receivable at
the end of FY79 were estimated at Taka 15.7 million, equivalent to roughly 13



- 18 -
months' billings; less than half of the Taka 14.6 million billed in FY79
were collected during that year. The arrears included Taka 8.9 million owed
by Government departments. Significant progress has been made since then with
respect to GOB accounts, and all remaining arrears will be paid prior to dis-
bursement (see paragraph 52(c) above). Government will pay or cause to be
paid charges for all water supplied by WASA to the various departments and
agencies of the Government and its employees residing in Goverment provided
housing, within 30 days following receipt of the bill (Sections 3.07 (b) and
3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement). Management also must give much
greater emphasis to billing and collection henceforth for non-Government
accounts. The current 5% late payment surcharge and Taka 100 reconnection fee
provide little incentive for prompt payment and generally WASA has been slow
to resort to disconnection. Several disconnection squads have been formed
recently and a publicity campaign has been mounted. In addition, WASA will
initiate a program of improvements to its billing and collection arrangements
satisfactory to the Association to ensure that the level of accounts receivable
is progressively reduced to no more than two months billing by end-FY82
(Section 4.06 of Project Agreement). The program will include disconnection
of delinquent consumers within 45 days of the overdue date and more effective
financial penalties for late payment and for reconnection of supply.
Metering and Waste Prevention
57.       Metering of connections (standpipes excepted) is standard practice
in Chittagong but about 30% of meters are in need of repair; metering of
production and distribution by district is incomplete. As a condition of
effectiveness WASA will prepare a program acceptable to IDA for the instal-
lation and repair of meters, waste detection and elimination of illegal con-
nections (Section 5.01 (d) of the "Development Credit Agreement, and Section
3.03 of the Project Agreement). The project makes provision for metering
14,000 new domestic connections and about 550 new industrial and commercial
connections and will extend meterinlg to standpipes wherever practicable.
Audit and Insurance
58.       WASA's accounts are audited by an independent firm of accountants
appointed in consultation with MLGRD. In the past, delays in making the
appointment have combined with delays by WASA in preparing the accounts for
audit to prevent the submission of audited accounts to IDA within the required
six months of WASA's financial year-end; however, the audit of FY79 accounts
was completed in January 1980, and the appointment of auditors for FY80 has
been made. In the future:
(a)  Auditors, satisfactory to the Association, will be
appointed prior to the start of each financial year
(Section 4.02(b) of the P'roject Agreement); and
(b) WASA's audited accounts, together with the auditor's
report, will be submitted to the Association within
six months of the end of WASA's financial year
(Section 4.02(a) of the Project Agreement).



- 19 -
59.       Until recently, WASA has not made arrangements for insurance
against public utility risks; but a satisfactory self-insurance fund for this
purpose has now been established (Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement).
Management and Staffing
60.       WASA has suffered from inadequate management but this has improved
recently. In addition, in an effort to improve WASA's financial management,
WASA will appoint a consultant with experience in financial management and
information systems in the water supply sector for a period of up to two years
(Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement), financed under the Third Technical
Assistance Credit (Credit 872-BD). This person will act as a counterpart
to WASA's commercial manager, advise the Chairman on the introduction of
satisfactory management information systems, and arrange a training program.
Appointment of such a consultant is a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(e) of the Development Credit Agreement). In addition WASA
has recently established a separate management accounting section and
strengthened the control of billing and collection activities. Appointments
of a second Deputy Chief Accountant, a Budget Officer and a Chief Revenues
Officer are being made.
61.       Although WASA has a number of qualified engineers, nine additional
professional engineering staff and some support staff will be appointed to
enable WASA to undertake a part of the design and contract supervision for
the project. Appointment of the additional staff is a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement). On completion of the pro-
ject, additional staff will be needed to operate the new facilities.
62.       WASA's total manpower was stable between 1970 and 1974 but has
increased from about 420 in 1974 to about 650 in June 1979. In part, the
recent increase is attributable to the commissioning of works under the
first project but the present level appears excessive. WASA has indicated
its intention to limit increases in its staff numbers prior to completion
of project facilities to the three new financial positions, nine engineering
positions and limited engineering support positions as described above. By
September 1, 1980 WASA will prepare a staffing plan acceptable to IDA for
the period of project implementation (Section 2.02(b) (iii) of the Project
Agreement).
Training
63.       Training, both in Bangladesh and abroad, was provided to WASA's
staff under the first project. Supplementary assistance for training was
received during that same period from multilateral and bilateral sources.
Although some of this training was received at the operational level, the
thrust of the formal programs was directed at the upper levels of the
organization. The nucleus of suitably trained mid-level managerial and
technical staff now available will provide a foundation for further
institutional development.



- 20 -
64.       The training element in the proposed project is directed principally
at the operational staff with a limited overseas fellowship program.  A train-
ing program is recommended which involves developing an in-house training capa-
bility in Chittagong and establishing a joint program with Dacca WASA. The
program will utilize staff expertise gained under the first project. Train-
ing in commercial and financiaL management will also be provided.  WASA will
prepare a training program acceptable to IDA, taking the joint program into
account, by September 1, 1980 (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement).
Public Health and Control of Domesltic Water Supplies
65.       About 70,000 people obtain water supplies from their employers.
These supplies are not subject to public health control and are in some cases
of dubious quality. Provision is being made under the proposed credit to
enable WASA to assume responsibilit:y for all domestic supplies by June 30,
1984 (Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement); and GOB's Department of Health
Education will prepare a program ofi public hygiene education satisfactory to
the Association to ensure that the project benefits may be maximized. The
program will be initiated not later than September 1, 1980 (Section 3.06 of
the Development Credit Agreement). This program will consist of a public
information campaign, utilizing handbills, mass media, and school programs.
Control of Abstractions
66.       WASA aims to meet all industrial and commercial needs within the
Chittagong area, and increased production under the project will enable it
to move towards this goal. Industries having their own wells, but using WASA
supplies as required, now obtain benefits from WASA's investment but avoid
making their full contribution toward costs. Further, overdrawing of ground-
water could result in saline intrusion of the aquifer. In the future it will
be necessary for WASA to control abstractions so that this valuable source of
good quality water is protected. GOB confirmed during negotiations that WASA
has the authority to compel the licensing of all abstractions. GOB will by
December 31, 1980 prepare a program satisfactory to the Association for the
licensing of all private abstractions (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Land Acquisition
67.       The site for the surface water treatment plant at Mohara has already
been acquired by WASA.  The remaining land requirements are for about six acres
in total to provide sites for six tubewells, two booster piumping stations,
staff quarters at Mohara and Kalurghat and a service reservoir.  In addition,
acquisition of land is required for an effluent pipe from the 14ohara plant to
the river and a number of minor rights of way are needed for water mains. GOB
and WASA confirmed during negotiations that these sites and rights of way have
been obtained, or may be obtained without difficulty.
68.       The Mohara site is sufficiently large to permit some future exten-
sion, but to ensure that later extensions are not obstructed, the land around
the site will be preserved for water supply purposes (Section 3.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Pollution Prevention
69.       The waters from which Chittagong will take its supplies require
protection, and GOB will prevent or control all discharges to the rivers
Karnaphuli and Halda (and tributaries) upstream of Mohara and for 2 miles
downstream (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
70.       All contracts for equipment, materials and meters will be awarded
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the
Association's guidelines. Expenditures will be largely for pipes which
may include steel, ductile iron, asbestos cement and PVC for water mains.
Exceptions will be made for items costing less than US$15,000 having an
aggregate value not exceeding US$350,00 which can be procured through local
shopping on the basis of at least three priced quotations. In evaluating
bids for equipment and materials, domestic manufacturers will be given a
preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. costs of the competing imports
or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever is lower. Major items of
project construction (e.g., the surface water treatment plant and trunk mains)
will be subject to international competitive bidding, with a 7-1/2% margin of
preference given to domestic contractors. The remaining works are small (con-
tracts of US$0.5 million or less), scattered, labor intensive, and within
the scope of local contractors. For these works, international competitive
bidding is not practical, and local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA would be applied.
Disbursement
71.       Disbursements under the proposed credit would cover:
(a) 57% of total expenditures for civil works contracts procured
under I.C.B. in connection with the Mohara treatment plant
and construction of trunk mains and appertenant works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and construction
materials and vehicles procured overseas, or 100% of local
expenditures for manufactured equipment, construction materials
and vehicles (ex-factory), and 50% of expenditures for other
equipment, construction materials and vehicles procured locally;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for training; and
(d) 100% of total expenditures for consultants services.
The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1984.
Financing
72.       The Credit of US$20 million would finance 72% of the total project
costs of US$27.8 million (net of duties and taxes). It would cover all for-
eign costs (US$11.8 million) and US$8.2 million of expenditures in local



- 22 -
currency. GOB would finance US$15.7 million (including US$11.9 million in
duties and taxes), and WASA would finance the remaining US$4 million (see
Project Costs table in paragraph 49).  GOB will ensure the availability of
sufficient funds to complete the project. It has been agreed in principle
that funds for the financial manager and for a feasibility stucy of sanitation
improvements can be provided under the IDA Third Technical Assistance credit
(Credit 872-BD). Retroactive financing, not exceeding US$250,000 is recom-
mended for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980 to cover advance pay-
ments for consultants, equipment and materials needed to be procured early to
permit prompt initiation of project works (paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement). To protect its future financial stability, WASA
will be required not to incur any long-term debt without IDA's prior agreement
unless its maximum future debt service is covered at least 1.25 times by its
most recent 12 months' operating surplus before depreciation (Section 4.07 of
the Project Agreement).
Relending Arrangement
73.        The Government will relend the proceeds of the credit to WASA at
7% per annum interest, for a term of 25 years, including 5 years of grace.
GOB will bear the foreign exchange risk. These terms, which are identical
to those for the Second Dacca WASA Project (Credit 941-Bd), are considered
appropriate, given WASA's financial circumstances.  The average annual infla-
tion rate in Bangladesh from FY76-78 was about 4%, and for the next three
years is expected to average about 10%. Conclusion of a satisfactory subsidiary
loan agreement between GOB and WASiA is a condition of effectiveness (Sections
5.01 (c) and 5.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Approval
74.       Government approval of the Project Proforma is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(i) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
75.       Without the project, per capita supplies of water would drop to
about 75 lcd from the 1979 level of 100 lcd. Supplies would, perforce, become
intermittent throughout the area of supply instead of being generally avail-
able throughout the 24 hours. Deteriorating standards would be reflected
in an increase in the risk of disease especially in relation to diarrheal
diseases and skin diseases, where reasonable standards of personal hygiene
are important.
76.       Using incremental revenues as a proxy for projecit benefits the
economic rate of return is about: 9% which is satisfactory.
77.       The physical risks involved in the project are, iLf anything, rather
less than those normally expected with operations of this type, since the
work is no more difficult than that carried out under the first project, and
is in the same general area with substantially the same soil conditions. The
institutional risks are somewhat greater, however, and full Government support
and continued managerial improvements will be required to achieve the project's
financial objectives.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority, and the
recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III and include as special conditions of effectiveness: (a) appointment of
consultants for detailed design and supervision of construction, (b) employ-
ment of nine additional professional staff, (c) signing of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOB and Chittagong WASA, (d) preparation of a program
for waste detection and prevention, and meter repair, (e) appointment of a
counterpart to WASA's commercial manager for two years, (f) valuation of
WASA's assets, (g) valuation of WASA's inventories, (h) announcement of an
interim tariff increase, and (i) approval of the Project Proforma.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 6, 1980



ANNEX I
- 24 -
TABLE 3A
_ ANISDESH - SOCAL DIcaTORS DATA S
=     QWuE   GROUPS (ADJUSTD *A)AES
LAND ARBE  (THOUS    SQ. N.)                                              - MDST RECZRT E7STST
TOTAL            14.0                                                 SAME        SAMS    I    IUlll
AICULTUL          99.9                               HDST RECENT    C RAPIC    ENCOUE         sca
196l /b    1970 lb ZRSTI4T A        3C1010  Li  GROUP L    GCROfUP L_
ClP PER CAPITA (US$1                 40.c        60.0      90.0           191.1     209.6       467.5
ME=G? COUSNPTnO  PZR CAPITA
(XUCWn-  IF COAL EIVALT)             ..         ..      33.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPLATtIO  AND VITAL STATISICS
POPULAXIOW. 9tH-YE" (MILLIONS)     51.4        68.3      t1.2
UlA  POpULATIoN (PECUT or TOwT.) 5.2            7.6       9.3            13.2      16.2        24.6
POPULATIEO  POjETONS
POPM.ATIU  IN TE  2000 (MILLIONS)                     145.0
STAOIIUT POPMLATIOI (NILOUS)                          334.0
TA  STATIONARY POPULATION I BXACI                    2165.0
POPULLTION DENSITI
F  SQ. U.                       357.0       474.0    564.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PU SQ. DI. AGRICULTRAL LAND    540.0        683.0    813.0           330.2      252.0       U49.0
POPULATION AGE SMUCTUB (PERCENT)
0-14 US.                         4.3         46.4      46.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 ns.                         52.5        51.0     51.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YnS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULALION GROWTH RAT (PUCT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.9       2.3            2.4        2.4         2.7
.-                                 ..         6.7       6.3            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRDDE BIST   ATE (PE THOUSLAD)     49.0        48.0      46.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CIUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0        20.0      18.0           16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REFODUCIION RE                3.5         3.1       3.2            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMKTL PLANNING
ACCEFRS, AAIUAL (TWOUSANDS)        ..       345.6   1103.1
USERS (PECENT OF  RZIIILD V))    ..            ..       8.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUMT ON
INDEX OF Foo  PROUCTION
Pt CAPITA (1969-71-L00)         107.3       101.0      98.0           99.4       9S.2        99.6
PR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORiti  (PRCENT OF
REQUR.ETS)                     89.0        89.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PRTINS (GRS  m  DAT)             42.6f         ..      58.5           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WTCH ANIMAL AND PM1S5        9.2          ..       8.0           10.4       13.6        17.4
CElO (AS  1-4) .14OTALXTY URT     29.0        25.0      23.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
LIFE EVOTANCY AT  IRH (YEAS)    42.0           *5.0      47.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
I9PFANT NOTALITT  NATE (PE
THDUSAND)                            ..       153.0    140.0              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS To SAE WArE (PERCENT OF
PtOPULAXION)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0      53.0           31.3       26.3        34.4
#                                  ..        L3.0      15.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
URAL                               ..        47.0      55.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO  W=RIA DISPOSAL (PERCMNT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0       5.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
URAk                               ..          ..      40.0           66.S       65. 1       71.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PQE PHYSICIAN             ,.      7600.0 11350.0          7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PEL NURSING PSO           ..    72030.0- 53700.0          12064.0    5552.4       L522.1
POPULATION PEIL HOSPITL BED
POTAL                         1100.0OL/    8120S.0h  4430.0         2738.4    1417.1        726.3
-1                                 ..          ..       ..              ..      197.3       272.7
LURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..      445.9      L404.4
ADMISSIONS PDL HOSPITAL SM           ..          ..       ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HLOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                              ..          ..       ..               .        5.3         5.4
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..         .9         5.1
ROBAL        -                     ..         ..        ..              ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE SUNMER OF PRSONS PDL  OOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..
84AN..                                               ..          ..        ..
RURBAL..                                       .         ......
ACCESS TO ELECTRIC'TY (PEECENT
OP DWEL.LIGS I
TOTAL                                                   35 0/                      .3        41
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..         ..         9.9



- 25 -                                 ANNEX I
sAWNWIA SOCUL DSCATSO CATA SR=
BA&acrAzs                linuM IC       S  (          UZSSDA
MRB  ucZUt      OBOaAMXC    INCOME        INCOME
10 L        1970 L  I8TZMAT L    S IOIF /n  %am  /4    mO   La
z U80Lm0 UTEOS
PIDIW3    TOAL                    47.0        61.0      83.0            59.5       63.3         82.7
muZI                 48.0        80.0    106.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
28.0        42.0      60.0            43.7       48.4        73.8
*00U0?    Sau                      8.0        19.0      23.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
HALE                 14.0        30.0      34.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
YOCATEOAL OUL. (2 01 3200mM)   1.0               1.0       1.0              1.3        5.2         9.1
PMMA                                ..        49.0      55.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
26.0      24.0              ..       21.7        23.4
AEULT LZ  1=        (A    )         21.           *-      22.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSMEON
RASSMMf CM1  M3 TIOSAND
POW                                 ..         0.4       0.4A            2.3        2.8          9.3
laic ucgtm   ? m  sm
PMMATIO                             ..          .0        ..            15.5        27.2        76.9
17m SWIm   P   T0UflD
POULATX                             ..          ..        ..              ..         2.         13.5
IPAMI   (0SYA    tL  Gi
DIT2l82r ) CZIcMAUsOU PU
THOUSAD  rATIO                        ..          ..       5.0              .2        5.3         18.3
C?344 AAIIL A IM            PU CUA .. ..                    ..              ..         1.1         2.5
LADK FOCI
TOTAL La-OW  POICZ (UumSn)    18516.0    23402.0  29900.0
MDALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5      17.0           U21.        24.8        29.2
AGCULTOU  (Fl3RIT)                86.J        85.9      78.0            66.3       69.4         62.7
IMSZ (PUZRCET)                     3.3         3.5       7.0             9.6       10.0         11.9
PATITCIPATION RATE (PEUP)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.6      34.4            35.S       36.9         37.1
.ALZ                               5387         55.8      55.3            52.3        52.4        48.J
.tA812                              11.4        11.8      12.1            15.7        18.0        20.4
E0131C  DmSCY PATIO                    1.3         1.4       1.3             1.3         1.2         1.4
LNC0t OtSAISCON
PICENT OF PIVATLE INCOME
c:zro By
EHGST 5        3  0l MS    LS    La.3/        16.7k       ..              ..         ..         15.2
RIXS5   20 PErST or DUOUMLDS   4.5            42.3        ..              ..         ..        48.2
tL1ST 20  UIS  OQ SUI2LDS    6.97j             7.971      ..              ..         ..         6.3
iO58T 40  PES 1T Or 80uwLDS   17.9            19.67_      ..              ..         ..         16.3
POW121, TAlC! muls
1T5ZUE    AISOLOE PV? INCOME
LZVEL (US$ MI CAPITA)
U                                    .           .     110.0            86.5       99.2       241.3
lAAL                                 .          ..      91.0            74.2       78.9        136.6
ESO YIATE    SLTMPV=z INCO
LIM31 (058 M3 CAPIIA)
U                                   ..          ..        ..              ..       91.9       179.7
MDIL                                ..          ..        ..            50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTIATED POPULATION BELOU AISOL
POVEnr Dfl1CO VL (vy CEN)
UR3BA                               .            .      55.0            4.3        &4.1        24.8
EUAL                                             .      74.0            S2./       53.9        37.5
. ot available
Not applicable.
OTS
/a    Ph. adjusted grop averoga  for each indicator are populatin-umighted geometric means, excluding the extr_m
vilues of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries  ong the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb    Unless ocherwis  noted, data for 1960 refor to any year botween 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimae  betwen 1974 and 1977.
Ic    South Asia; /d  Low Income (S2S0 or lose per capita 1976);  le  Lower Middle Incme (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  if W. 1961-65; LI  Regoitered, not all practicing in the countr;,  /h  Govt. astablishmntce
only; 1 1972; LI 1963-64; 1k 1966-67; /L 1962: /I 1973.
osst lacent Estimats of GSP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-26 -                                                        ANNEX I
07Tr       Or SIAL  MNDIATSO
lots.:  Athoug  the dat.air  drawn from souce  generlly Judged the wet authoritative and reliable, *it should sian be outed that they   y not he Interns-
tio..ally comparable because of the lack of standardi-ed definitlon  Cad concapti used hy diffesent coutries to collecting the data. The data are, esoetbel.as,
uceful to describe orers of magnitude, Indicate trend., and ch2arso4terice certain Major diffePROCss between countries.
The adluotcd cr000 arergo  for s-ot Ldluat.r ace ppyuLation-weightsd geometric seems, exicluiding the extra   -les of the inidioacr and the mast populated
country in each group.  , to lack of data, group average  of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Rxporters sod of indicators of Access no Water and Ecca-t.
liepool .. ouslHog,9 Incom  16%stribtion sod Poverty for other country groups are pomslatis-ceu.ghted genearic means without  sxciusius of tie extreec, t-ines ec
0h. Cost ppueslted coutry.  Sinc  tecvrgofootcs                      gteidaosdees00amaiitof data sod is not unifom  csto    uth   xrised
io vlatug aerseo ofoneindicao  tsohe.These sysrage   r                tyosfs  saercmtso  'eceted' vaJues when cla  io  h   aie f ooe
lindcatoir at atome smong the country enid reference group'.
lAnD ARth (thousand sq.ia.)                                                              Acces  to bkcrsta  oesl P    (ter,ten.1,t of; poplaton    total  orhac  sod rurl
ine      otlsufer  eo    opiigln   ra            ln    er.luoer of psopic(oa, ross, end coral  servd by  nret   ipsla
Agrso,utural - Post recet estimate of agricultural. area used t eaorsril'                pecentages of their respective populations. increta disposal as  Inclode
or Permanently for crops, pasturea, market sod klitcen gardens or to                   the toi1eetice, sad disposal, with cr cltbot  r.t-a-t, of knows esrs-t
-    --           ~~~~~~lie, fallow.                                                                      And waste-eater by water-horn  systems, or the W.s    St privies snd sie
installations.
GYP Pi CAPITA (us$) - GNP Per capita estimaaes  at current market  PriesMltlont aePyician -PllaIoc cu-cded by cuabe  of Practicing phyisicos,,
.EI-Litiiibyiami ooneeri- method -sorled bsan  Atlas (1976-72j hasi.);                                    a medicalr school atuneriylv.
1960, iSO, sod 1978 data.                                                              Psoultios per Nursing Person - Poultin           ,Iided by smteir of Praeticing salo
iENERGY CO0c0rnP07Oe PM9 CAPI7A - dnA].-  cocoumtion of commercial en,ergy                 so feeal. graduate cre,practical  -use, and axsiocontmocrse..
I os. o  lossite. potroleum, natural g-asnsd bydro-, ncslear an, ge-               Potlto   sfhsia   e  -ttl   ra. sod rureal.   Ouain(oa,i-s.
thremal eco-tricity) in uilgromu of cocal eqsi-lett Per capita; 1960,                    sdrridIddhyterepctvoueffhsialbedesoiae it
197, ano 1976 data,                                                                      public sod prooate general sod apeosice.d botpitl and rehatiltatic- ceter.5
Hospitalu are estatishmento Permanently staffed by at leat  oepscit
POPIjIATION ANt VITAL STATISTICS                                                           Establishments providing Principally custodial cueare   oc t iccluced. buarl]
'Total fP,i.tio..  1i-7heii7iilli-s) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod                     hostpitalsn  howeve, include health sod medical cect-r  not preswuae,tiz' etsfito
1977 cats                                                                              by a pbVisyscia  (but by a mediCal assistant, turse, midsife, etc. ) chich offer
Orhbn Populatboc (cerment of' total) - Ratio of urban, to total population;              in-patient accommdation and proide n limited range of medicalfai:is
liffor-co  ooficiticn   of urban oea  my effect coparability of da."                 Adaissoons  -  H-sPital bed - total  -occr of sumissioss ha or dischage. foo
sagcotre;.c,  90   n  17   aa                                                            hicaputel  divided bp the cougher of isi.-
opolai.oi year 2000 - Curren  population projlections are ba.ed on                 015)507
1I975tEboir96pulati,,i by age sod .eo and toeir inrtality sod fetility             Avr-age     'diesfr      1fcecd toeron   c  houshol)   tot ~al.obah  sd coal-
rates. Projection parameter  fcc mortJalty  atas comrise of .bres                    A   ueodcniton ofa  rop  finvdul  wh   hr   iving quarters an.
leveit aso-Ini  life expectancy at birth increasong with cscn'iry,a                  tbeir main main.  A boarder cr lodger may or map cot Ic  socluoci ic the
Per caioicoclvl  and fe..sle life copetsasy stabiliciug at                           houseold fo cotatintical purposes.
77.5 pe-r.  TIe parsomtero for fsrtility rate also have tire,, leeds               Average number of pesn   e  oo      oa.orba   and rura  - Average  um0c-
anssuming oeclios ic~ fertility ecc-eding to inciss level -d psost                   of perso"n per -mo  inanorn  no  rrl occupied convetuor`Ll oeoo
family olsoing performane. Esob costry in then sosiged so,' of these                 repectively.  Dwsellings eccude hnc-permaneet structures and unorcu-i-ts:
nine octinati-n  of mernality and fertility trends for prcjecticn                  Access hr Electricity                               %.cnIo.oflno  -ttl   umn, end rural-   oo
p-roce.-ccioa  dwellings   th electrAicity 10livong queters so p.ernazge 
Statiosay occoiatiot -In  astationary populatioc there is no gycut               total, orba, sod rural dweelliegs  -spsctively.
N:c oe. birth rate-in equal toothe death rate, and also the age
corocture ree -otcnetu. Thin is achievd only after fertility rates              SD5XATION
decline to the replacement  -Lei of unit net reproduction rate, chee               Audoitd Pasrolmesst Ratios
soul gosratiosi of eue  re1soc$ itself soantly.  The stationary pop-                 Piayohw  -ttlwl  n  feal-ross toa,maeis eae  eo
iatloc oi:s uao tse,atsd on the basis of the projected chsareteriatios                 sent of  l agsa-tepiar ee  anpercentages of reopectio- Primury
of th   ouainin the fees 2000, sod the rate of decline of fertility                    echs-lage pupsslatioe.s; normaly includes childrso aged 6-il yours not
rat  orpaeet  level,                                                                   adjusted for hiferet lsogth  of primary education; for coootsies citl
Pose ssthocsv onpuatiosis reached -     ea   hc  ttoer   oulto                    uiesl education esrollnent mam  exceed 150 perceco  icce  -on  pupoic
oi.c bas iee  reahed.                                                                  ar  blw  rshr  the official school age..
Proatios DenitinScnaysbc    t-total,   alesd female - C osted -o  L-o-  -coo
Per o. ft. - Md,-ya  poultion per square bunmeter (100 tenures) of                       education require  atleast four yearo of appcr-ed pri-ny oorco
toot]. urea                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prorides general occtinam]., or osachr trminiing instruction: 1cr p,pils
Per so. ow.agicultural land - Cusputed as show  fee agricutusrel lead                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courseo srn get.srally'
only.                                                                                  ecluded.
Population ARe Structure (cerc-et  - Children (0-li years), working:-age                 Pucatio.aIenrollment (ceroent of .econdurv)  V- P taonoa  inotitotloon  icIobon
~15-_iyears), med retired  (5 years, sod ovr) as per-etage  of mid-pear                  techical,indaustrial, or other Progrems which operate ldpnscl   rac
poultico; 1I0,1970. sod 1977 data.                                                       depcrtmnta of secondary instit'utions.
Ponulation trwt  Ras  pr tc) - total - Annual growth ratses of total, mid-               Popil-ebr rai      rir.sd  -ecodiry - Total  tuidecta cnro11od ic
*              pear popula'iinsc f or 1950-n~_o, 19W.-70, sod i9'N-7f.                                   prmr   n   eodrylvl   iie   y nushers of teachers In tie con--
.Popclatien Growth Rate ) pereet) - urban - Annsual groeth rates of urhun                  sponding lerelo.
oopLatoo-  P r -    0-    190-70, and 1970-7-.                                         Adult literay ratr  ceroent)  L- ltert  ndots (sole t  c-ra n  write) 
Crude BirthRte (rtousmod) -nual live births per thousand of mod-                           aperetgeo   otlautpeltonaged iS years sod over.
yea  puploio;1900, 1970, end 1977 data.
C  hd eat  Wat      th-ussod) - bAsnal denths pe  thosuod ci mii-peer             cartiNPjaib
~iP'nlti6iY I000I197057iiiW1977 data.                                               Pseg r fr  (ts, th-sso  npL..io) - Passenger oars coprise sotr. sr
rosReproduction Oats-ovrage smber of daughter  a omn   Il  05c                        seaing less tieight persons  sclu.des smoulsoces, hearses sod e;lltsry
is her ocreaI  Preprodctive p-roed if she cxperieccee present ige-veils
opecific fertility rates; uscalp fieyerevrgec ceding is 19.0,                        Radio Receiver  (per  tosand~ pulto)- All types of receoves for e-diL
1971, sod 1975.                                                                        broadcasts to  eea  pulc  e   housand of pepulotice; ..ocludes unli-e....
famIy Ploonic -_Acceptoro. Annual (thoussooc3) - Annual number of                        ree-r  in countries and in peer. chec regitrsticn of raio sets n-  in
erceptr  of birth-control de-iues under suspicee of national fsmi.ly                   effect; data for recent years asp tot te rcparshe nince n-ct oc-corhe
plcIcs.g progrun.                                                                      ibolisbed iiconsing.
ail  Panning - Uer)iperceu ofcrried come  - Percentage of sarried                  T'o neeier   10r.thosn   toocio)-    / reeies  o  broados.t to cecers-
oceenof ohld-herong  ge  1-i yesra) eb  ice birth-control des-ce                pulcprtcosdpplton   cidc licensed STVrcieoi ccrr
toeI  mrred coe,in sae  g  group.                                                    and in yearo when regoutratico of TV oetn  enso effect.
'C0D ANDt55 N fl-On                                                                       Mff 'dail  genra  interes.t                   icee1=. .d as 5per,indion1 Publicatioc
iTo,ex vf Pood _roooeio  perfnite )1969.71ai00) - Indeo of per canitosoone  primriyornodigeoa.nun itocnseedtItii
nnotal productio   f  l  food  candities. Production ecoldes sead sod                  if it appears  t leant Icor times a ace.
Dedad In os calendar yea  basis.  toedltie  cover primary sooni                   Cinema, Annual Attendsoco orCptcr           sr-Beased on the number of sl--os
-..  ugr_n  :cstesd of sugar) which sre ediblo and -ctai.t ctrients                cold during the year, boIcudin  in isooc   to sLve-in cicemax and coo, Ic
-c.cffee and tea or  .ccuded).  Aggregate prcdothcc of each c-mtup                 unoin.
in laced onntinl  vrage producer price weights.                                        RFOC
Per                        1-10tpi' folre   pret of reuleenn)-comnd fro-           oPcPO'
-orgy c.iIiuaeoo   tot -bce oupie    vla    in  osot'ry per -spta                 Toa  aorFreth.ousnds) - Economically uctioc por,onc. inolding   ic
per dy~.  Aclabesppli.. comprise donewtic production, impor-s less                   foco  n            yoepcy  lot ecculdig  -aseevve, otucto, etc. Dlfioit--.i
coot.sd obmogee in etok   Nctoouppiieoe-ciude anisal feed, s..,.nvaiu  .nsonries ar  oct -oos.rbc..
quantitie  used in food Proensin   edoseicdsrbtc.eqr-                              l ejren)-P le Inoor force as percentage of total lahoir force
sesto oemestimate  by tRiObased is pohyniologicel  _ech  for cones..]                      roostv c I -Labor foron it, fasing  forestry, bunting sod
ctl,ity and health considering enir-oetal temprst-r, body -eughtn,                   1Ifishin  as percetage of  tota  labor force
:ge _a ceo dictribotion  of populatio, sod slic-ig 10 perteot for                  induistry (percent) - Labor force in sinbng, comotrucoico, sanu.factur:nig edo
-st  st h-oehoid level.                                                            electricity, oster sod gao Sc Percentage of total laboroce
Per -spios ooply of Protein (crms- ts  dsp) - Proteis. c.s.es.  .1 pe r              Pas-tcins tion Oste (peroent) -  ctl moe?n.cnc-Prtiripatino o
:ptsoties.ply of food per day. Oct copply of food is dcri-od asoatitreun  aopo sie  total7.ac,Fan  fomLLe moo.r Cocos as Per-
shore. qoiremento for anl conre stablished by '15th proide for                       etages cf total, male  sod foamls populsoics of ol ages respectively;
sinissunsioac  of nograms of total protein per say sod 20 gr.am  of                  1960  1970, sod 1975 data.  These are luau  pari.opotion rates reflecting
soseal and pulse protein, of which 10 gram  should be metmal protein.                age-sen structure of the population, sod 1nng time trend.  A fec entiaete
LThese otmodirds ar  lowr than, those of 75 graxon of total protein and              are finn nattonal. sources.
25 grams of -nlso  proteic a an meavrage for the esrld, proposed by TAO            donac  evodrnyRatio -  Ratio of population under i  and 65 sod over to
in th   hr    ol  oo   uvy                                                           h   abrfrsi   g  group of 15-ho Years.
Per cpsit. proon  suppy Ifer  e aI and Pulse - Protein supply of food              nCM   IM3TO
derve  fro  enlomltand tpulses in grsmos Per day.                                OE    ThRlYll
Child  agen l.     braty Rte(orr tousand) - Ansnual deaths Per etbcssod                Percetag`o  Privat  incme  to in cash sod kiind) - Received by richest
oo  gegrup1-  yar,  n eilrc  i  tiaag  onu; rr  as dntel        5pecet, rcet 20pret   turs  20 percest, sod poorest u0 percent
opoog tootries data derived fron life tabl-c                                           of housabsida..
,,.fetpectenoy nobIi  (tree) -Average number of years of life                       istiated Asolut  Poery  soelot-el (te$ per  sia      ra   n   ua
remining niyt          90   95   n   97   aa                                           Absoluite poverty Incom  level io teat Jc-m   lveIio cican.sma
Isfuos htortelotY Rote (per th,uad    Ancess] deaths of Infants under one                nutritiosaily adequate diet Pins ..s..stial non-food requiro-et. 0000
yea  of uge  e  ousolr  births.                                                        affordshle
A-ccps  to 1sf o Cater  rocc   fcc:ocl-to]   ra,ad rual -                               stimated Ralatie Poverty Income ievei (US$ per rati,) -ranad rurLI-
Nocber.t of  irpr(otl;ten,nfurl   lt rassbl   cecRtural relative   . povrt  Otoas lwo  ison-hr  ofsaeper vapits
oaf e    onr supply (includes treated surfac  caner. or untreated but                  Personal inosoc of -.h. coutry. Urban level is derived  run t. ic rura  le-
unoitminate  motor as.h as that from pro.tectd borehole,, springs,                     with adjostaen   for sigher cost of living in urba  areas -
and saniary -eU.) as Percentagen of their respective populations~ - t                Estimated Po.1itioc Reins Absolute  oet  Itoeleel (rcnt) - urba  and
an umanvureat n Public fountain or ot&adposc  located not moetaburl-Pren   fpplain:rassdyrurl   a  are:anuolte PooR -
200 meters from s dous  may toconsidered as being within reasonabie
acceso of that hoaso. tn rura areas mea.c.able access aculd imply
that the housewife or -nbera of the household do wt have to spend                                                             t.Dcsnlic and Sicois ista  ioi
disproportionate part of the dsp to fetching the a.      p   aster heads                                                 M oon-nic, Analysis sd Projections Dspa,,iment
August 1979



-27 -
ANNEX I
Atual                       Ee1td             1960-   1965-    1973.          AV.
2.947-69 1974175 a07/78
AV. 1967-69  a972/73  1974/75   1976/77            97/8            16      170       1978
fITIISAL A~CCGWTS                                                                                  M      17
1ro~~~~  stic ~~~~In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & z=chage  ae                         Avers.t Annual Gravtk, Rates        As Percent of G20Y
Gro.3- Dmestic  rodact  '"       ,8u3    5.314       7.z55             J.3                       .3       6.1          98,5   101.8   101.1
-Gaijus frnn Terms of Trade ()             89               4117        -.148              -as                                            1.5    -1.8    -1.1
C;ro~.s Domestci Income                    5 3~ S~  6=9 7       7,107             i774            5.6      2.5      5.8          100.0 1O00.0   10o0.0
import (mzci. xP)                  879       747      703         506               791         720.6      6.8      0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
(aot   import eatn&it;Y)-   598       369      197         243               31-5          12.3   -14.6      -3.2           9.8      3.1     4.1
ReoreGap                       281      378       506i      2-63              7                                               4.6    7,9        7
ConSuMPtion Plcpenditures        5,668    5.817    6,404        6,764             7.531           5.7      3.6      5.2           92.9   100.1    97.1
Izvestment   "(ci.e. stocks)    714          394      499         660              700           13.3      6.8     12.2           12.9     7.8      9.0
*Domestic Savings                         433        16       -6         343               2*4           4.3    10.0      72.0            6.8    .0.1      2.9
National Savings                   416        32       10         378               279           8.7    20.5      56.3            7.1     0.2      3.6
)HMAIDISE TRADE                             Annual Data, at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Diports
Capital goodsa                             100      135         227               318                             29158                          2.
Intermediate gaood ficfua2.s)              176      386         270              459                      2. 1.9                  .     30.4    34. 1
rueals and related materials
of vhinh: Petrolso              .         23      155         141              166              .       .      48.5             *      1.Q    "
MoVen.coods               -424     -126 ~~~227406                                         ..     -..
Exports
Prisacy ProdmCts 6.l. fools)      .        145      119         220               2D3             .        .      7.0             .     40.9    40.8
Fuels and related materi.als
of which: Petrolsm
Manufactued toodb195                     239         240               294             .        .      85.                    l
"Ja   Wh.Eot  (fob)               W                                                                               7.                   100.    100.0
Tourism and Border. Trace                                                          779                                                  0.        0,
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Aege19M72-73   10
Export Price index                J1tO               3         11                137              .      ..       6.5
Import Price Index                52      100       215        189               I8SO                    .       12.5
Terms of Trade TdAx              118      100        62         62                76             ..      ..       5.6
Exports Vo0lm   Index           1I1       100        so        13.5              107             .       .        1.5
"AWE A002D BY SRCTOR              Annual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange DzAtes            Av*rage Annual Irowtb Rates       AL Percent of Total
Agriculturr                    3,542    3,403    3,71.2      4.020             4,318             .       ..       4.8           59        59      57
Indurtrya&noldMinng             420       412      466         582               642             .        .      9.2             7         7       a
Ser-rqce                       2.050    1.848    2.146                                           ..& .la         7.4            _4        34      35
totti                 ~~~~6,01.2    5,663    6.324   71044             7.605                              6.1           100      100      O
HJMr C FnEARCE                                                                                                                      As Perc on,
(Ce.ntral`Govw=ent)
C~rr-'t Pmceipts                 317      280      469         563               665              .       .     34.2           5.3       7.2     e.5
C   S:~-  xpenctitures                364      419         464                               ..53           16.8           6.1      6.4      7.1
a-u.ry ..vnc.1                            .84       50          99TT2                                                         -0.8      0.8      1.4
Ci.nur  ;bflic Sector             .         .        .           ..                              .       .
Pu ac~ ctor Invesoasnt      421       239      246         516                                              IO:; .  1.     7.0      3.8      6.6
us $ million LI1
CUP.PYW  E2MITUItE DETAILS                           ACua                  Ztlmtd         DET-IL 011                         At AIV. 1977/76  p nd Et
As  5 Tal  uretEoen~p d.               1%/7 jfl9L   197/7  19(7              977/78      FJELIC SIL-T0R-ea  ?Id    ;of Total
EEZ -atian                            15.3~~~  14.5    12.4       13.0       Th ESST PFO1R4M                        (1976/7-9- 1979/80
Other .iocisl Servic--                   .        4.5      3.6     4.2         4.9       Social Sect-ors                           287       13.2
Agriculture and                                                                          Agriculture                              600        17.6
Other Exoosmic Services                 ..       5.0    12.5      6.6        7.0       Industry and Mining                       380        17.5
Administration and Defense               ..      70.4    57.1    61.5         61.2       Power                                    314        14.4
other                                    4.          6 _U        J5-          13.9       Transport and coinznications             387        17.8
Tota  Current Pxpenditures                      100.0   100.0   100.0        100.0       Other                                    206         9.5
________ ________ _______ ________ ________ _______ ________ ________ _______ Total  Expenditures           2.17-4      100.0
SELECTED ..5  IATORS                             .1960-      i965 -      1973-             PIRAICIDI
(calculated from 3-year averaged data)            1965      1970        1976
Average 1003                                         .       I77 M.       71i                 Public Sector Savings                  557       25.6
Wmort Niasticity                                    ..       1.29       1.11                  Program Lid counterpart               838        38.6
*Wgina1 onstic savings Rate                         ..       0.22       0.03                  Foreign Project Aid                   605        27.8
Marginal National Saving s Rte                               0.35       0.03                  O_bp  (16ul. dow. bor?o5t2g)           174        8.0
Total Finacing                     2.174       100.0
LAION PORCE AND                                Total Labor Force                                Vs2i Aded Per Worker (97   3pie      a.Rts
OUrzPM PER WORKE                 in YAllions         i ?  oal            161 --73          InUSDiea            rerctnr ctAverg       Pr 9es0-7       aes
j2q6I               906   1927  GroWth Rate                 19 69/0   19 72173    1969/70   1972/73  Growth Rate
Agriculture                       16.1       20.5      85       78          2.0              ..         166         ..76
Industry                           1.0        1.8      5         7         3.0               ..         229         ..        105
Service                            1.8        3.9    I10        13          6.7              ..         484        L.222
Total                             18 .9      r6.-2   1005      To00         2.8             248         217        100        10-4.
not appl.icabl.e       ncl or negligbl
not available        --less thin halr the smallest unit shown
Note:  Figores are on fiscal year basis (july 1-~a &O).Dars prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile "ast pakistan.
=W    Plani tuargts.



ANNEX I
-28 -
BL8JtR OF P12S, XU8t8L ASS AENCE AND 3DrT
(UlWnte in .iJile of U.S. do7  at ceurrnt prlcie)
Actual 914                         tirmtdi   peoiet            Ae-a. A6t1  Gr,h a.ne
19S9170     7S72J73       12L7417.    19S0/        W177/7i         1978/79                  1974-1978
S31KARY BALANCE OF FltTS
Bports (incl. NF,)                          51           369           338           529           5e8            645                       13.7
-639         -147        -1,42       _957           _1,427         -1,779                        9.8
R9.-8    1enee   l--H)                     -            -378        -1,044          -428          - -          -1,1                          7*4
Interest Cost)               I
Dire-t  ,n99.nt ln Im.   1
Wonkor-' R-ittm01. ,                                      45              7           66            83              93
3.urteeonC.nt Tr     I kot. i                          -I07                     _-                7             1 0330
?lil-at, Dimec Thaatoeft
officail  rcpita ol rt rt                                482            397          229           346            400                       13.6
Publicie  &apTl &rstf
ubmnsW-T.l                                 ..           76           527          273            411            695                       5.2
-Rae.yrant.                                ~~~~-    -25              -16           -51            -54                          -
!Zat Di b-.aaert.                                      --e              -25          7                             54                        4.89
Other WaL  L.0n-                                                                                                                                                                                                    *
Di,bu  t0,,
-R.ea tS                                     .~          -,
Net Di-tur      tS                            .                                ..             ..
Capital Trasasati-e n.s..                      .        -205            334          -44            16            -33
Cheu9I  1. Neta .-                                       -20            196          -80            24              25 AYtul 1Ad5 (-I odri-01
Irons Onsenne. (-nd p*riod)                  ,,          107            263          293           269        7E8   i17Z773   1974/75  1975/76   1976/77    1977/78
Public Dsbt Out. & DIobursed        228      1,366      1,812      2,065       2,556
OEINTAND klOl lN DIOllfl ST
IWfAI.ia Grants 1 Orsnt-like                              514           368          338           452           1ntnret on Public Debt              -         10         21         25          27
Repaye'ntn o pPublic Debt           -         25         78         17          51
Public  42T l-oans                                                                                              T0tal Public Debt Service            -         35         99         42          78
ED911                                                                 -            -             -          Ote2l  Debt Service (net)           .
DA                                                      6S            150           50           211          Total D3bt Servie  (net)
Other iItilstrSl                                         11            87           84            74
ConertSt.                                              2D4            678          200           376        8urdno on   p.,ort E-ndinas (0)
SepplierS    t t                                        55            17             2            11
pi- ncial In.titutten.                                    -             -            5            13          Pablic Debt S-erice                         9.8        22.4        7.9        13.7
B>zd,                                       ,            _             _            _              _         T.t-l Debt 5 3 S ic.
P_blic LO-   ..e..            i                                                      -             _ _        TDScDirect  anest.  n..
To.a1 Public MW7 Loan.                        .           336           932          31T         -
Average Ter of Public4 Debt
kttl  Debt pWtstn-ding    J-Io  30, 1978                            Int a- % Prior- 7er Do&                     2.0          1.5        1.4         1.3
SnAL D89T                                           e        Only                pecrcnt                          kort.  n 0 Prior le r  D             .D      5.0         5.7        0.9         0.5
libr2d Bank                                                                         T
DA                                                     554                       21.7                         D3RD Debt Out. h Dsbursed
Other  ltilt-lotnral                                    64                        2.5                               o  % SPublic Debt O6D                    4.0         3.0        2,7         2.2
Oocerccects                                          1,746                       68 4                              an  741b-lic Dabt Seerine                   -         1.6        7.5         4.4
q-n   w -                                              111                       4.3
Ficanolal ltitutilon                                    26                        1.0                         mi D4bt Out. & Dinb-reed
Bonds                                                    -                                                           0 P 0 S blic D3bt 061         1.1      18.7        21.0       22.7        21.7
publis 1  bt. n c..                                                                 -a  % P4bli.  Deb4  Servoie                                      -       2.3         2.0        7.5         4.9
T.otl  Psblic ?%LT Debt 4OO1.
Othnr 0LT Debt3
Sh.rt-tw'a Debt (dib. nony)
rot   pli2.cable                                                    e  ntaff nati-ote
not aoailable                                                       -  nil or negl 4ibl
not available  epgitey                   ---  loon than hAl  tO.
but icclded ic total                                                   .a.lleat -ait 6h0N                                                                                                   19
H.-b-a 1978



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                        Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                    54.9    428.28        -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.00      1.39
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.36
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      1.72
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.30      0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      3.57
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      5.05
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.50      4.17
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.70      0.34
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                 20.00      9.75
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00    24.23
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.00      9.67
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    19.13
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00    13.22
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00      7.61
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.50      3.69
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.00      9.45



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
JS$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                        (leass cancellations)
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                          16.00   14.61
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                          21.00   18.96
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                     10.00    8.96
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                   5.00    3.95
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                         75.00    4.61
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                       21.00   18.50
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                       25.00   24.97
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small S,cale Industry II                    7.00    6.99
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.00    5.74
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.00   18.05
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                        75.00   17.05
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.00    9.94
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                       6.00    6.00 /c
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                        25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                           32.00   32.00 /b
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
District                                28.00   28.00
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                       22.00   22.00
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports              25.00   21.19
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                           25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Hiighway Project                    10.00   10.00 lb
Total,                                                      54.9  1,219.28  448.88
of which has been repaid                                   0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,218.88
Total undisbursed                                            0       448.88  448.88
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments..
/b   Not effective.
/c   Became effective in February.



-31 -
ANNEX II
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads
originally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by
World Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This request
is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B and C
(Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding generally
satisfactorily. Most equipment under the sub-project is now installed. Com-
missioning and takeover of all VHF base stations and PCO sets at 68 locations
has taken place. Delivery for operation of microwave and UHF systems is sub-
ject to corrective measures, and was due to be completed by end December 79.
Government and TTB have stated that physical transfer of the assets under the
sub-project from Cyclone Reconstruction Board (CRB) to TTB was made as from
July 1, 1979, when action to dissolve CRB was undertaken. Formal transfer
of these assets will take place through the issuance of an Executive Order,
which has been furnished to IDA for review. TTB indicated that measures are
being taken to complete all works and arrangements for full operation by the
end of December 1979. A detailed report on the actual operational status of
the assets transferred, together with details of TTB/GOB action required to
ensure their full operational use was due to be submitted by December 15, 1979.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project has now been completed three years behind schedule.
Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials,
equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment as a result of rapid river
erosion during the construction phase. Major agricultural development started
in 1978 will continue for four years. A seven month extension of the Closing
Date is under consideration to allow time for the arrival of some remaining
orders of maintenance equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned by early 1980. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7
million from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be con-
solidated to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in
the Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been little improvement in project implementation in the
past six months. Key constraints continue to be: Taka shortage, and civil
work construction difficulties. Ak revised work programme has been finalized
and an extension of the closing date to June 30, 1981 would be considered on
condition that adequate ADP Taka provision is made available by GOB. The main
positive aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract
grower scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well
below appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales
are poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multi-
plication. Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and
marketing consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certifica-
tion Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme
is currently under preparation. Future prospects have improved as a result
of GOB's recent strong committments to stimulate foodgrain production and sup-
port intensive seed production efforts.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump units
are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are expected to be operational
by the year-end. 2,500 secondary pumps are in store and ready for issue, the
target for the 79/80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or 44,000 acres
planted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976;_ Effective Date:  February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by



33                      ANNEX II
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. This has been resolved. After a
period of good progress, project civil works have again slowed down due to
shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the contractors.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.



1 4 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports.
Sales of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The
project will procure in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets -which will be distri-
buted by January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000
shallow tubewells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construc-
tion of workshops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effesctive Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works const:uction is nearing completion.  Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem rema:ining is the revision ofE Project Proforma (PP)
to provide adequate funds for completing remaining civi:L works.  The Ministry
of Agriculture has prepared a draft Project Proforma (PP) for Ministry of
Planning approval.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: ALpril 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low.  Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the



- 35 -
ANNEX II
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
4Sntensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
T978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: the first batch of con-
struction contracts, out of a total of possibly 10 batches, have been awarded;
equipment procurement is well underway and the project construction, implemen-
tation and monitoring units have been established. Improvements in the system
for domestic food procurement were identified for implementation in 1979 aman
season. A pilot project for paddy marketing by farmer cooperatives is doing
well in its early stages. However, delays in full staffing and in land
acquisition, and inadequate financial allocations for the project in GOB
Annual Development Plans could slow down progress in the future.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory and all par-
ticipating institutions are cooperating fully. The revised plans for
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) headquarters building and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) research stations
have been approved by IDA and prequalification of contractors has been com-
pleted. The BARC Technical Working Groups are progressing satisfactorily.
Progress has been made in selecting the candidates for the PhD training
scheme. Action is needed to (i) fill positions of BARDC Executive Vice
Chairman and two other Board members; (ii) complete PhD overseas training
arrangements and initiate M.Sc. training arrangements in Bangladesh;
(iii) recruit consultants; and (iv) prepare National Research Plan.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the
Government in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start by end 1979.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective due to delays in appointment of
consultants. Negotiations with one consulting firm broke down. Negotiations
with a second consultant firm are in progress.



_36-
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
necember 31, 1984
This eLedit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project is being colinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about: US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting: firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing; orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of December 31, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.4 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$15.0 million and QuaLified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been approved Eor US$3.6 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date:  December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of December 31, 1979 (lisbursements were US$66.8 million and.QAR
had been approved for US$5.6 million.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of December 31, 1979 disbursements were about $55.9 million and
QAR had been approved for $16.6 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of funds. The External
Affairs Division of the Ministry of Planning informed the mission that a
decision on the allocation of the required funds is expected soon. If funds
are made available by mid-December 1979, the project could be completed by the
current closing date, December 31, 1980. The fellowship program is nearly
complete. Civil works associated with the technical education component,
although 30 months behind schedule are virtually complete and the polytechnics
are now operating. About 75% of all equipment (in dollar terms) are close to
appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. Most local cost overruns are
caused by taxes imposed on imported goods. Disbursement as of December 31,
1979 is $18.9 million (90% of the Credit).



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
progressing satisfactorily. Training of teachers for the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of
instructors to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of
positions, which was not extended to the ATI staff.  Little progress has
been made on the recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development
of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Eff,ective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This project has only recently been declared effective. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is presently understaffed and have only the project
architect and an acting project coordinator. The Project Manager (consultant)
has already been selected. The furniture and equipment for the PIU office
would be purchased in the near future.  The PIU was scheduled to be fully
staffed by December 1979.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in acldition to IDA credit. Program performance,
which declined during the three months preceding the parliamentary elections
in February 1979, has improved again. The internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, is underway. This reorganization will not be effective
in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill
its large number of vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions;
and (b) simplify the administrative, financial and recruitment procedures.
Actions have been assured by the Government on both counts. A program has
been started for the retraining of field workers which should improve their
performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare
Centers, built through community participation, has been encouraging, the
progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than expected by
the last mission. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the
credit has also shown less than expected improvements.



- 39-                         ANNEX II
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit is not yet effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Feni bypass was opened to public traffic on July 1, 1979. Some
shoulder damage occurred during the 1979 monsoon, particularly in areas
where shoulder compaction was incomplete. Work has commenced on shoulder
reinstatement and and was due to be completed by end-December 1979. Iso-
lated pavement failures have occurred, and the reasons for these failures
are currently being investigated. Progress on the RHD headquarters building
is satisfactory and now consists primarily of finishing works. The draft
final report on the Surma River Crossing Study has been reviewed by RHD and
IDA, and the consultant is at present making the required amendments to the
Report. Arbitration is proceeding on the contractor's claims on the Sitalakhya
bridge contract. Due to delays in completion of this arbitration, IDA recently
agreed to extend the closing date from December 31, 1979 to June 30, 1980.
Aside from minor finishing works on the RHD buiulding, all project work is
reported to be completed.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$7.7 million (88% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date:  March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behine the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation ai('- and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, all consultants contracts have now been signed and work is underway.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Dat:e June 30, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficult:ies; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project abouat four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommun:ications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordlering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have now decided on the technique to be
adopted for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commit-
ment could be taken in 1980 for delivery only by mid-1982. The rate of physical
installations during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from
the previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Government



- 41 -
ANNEX II
has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively and
should be taken and made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satis-
factory accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the
beneficiary, but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular
in consideration of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 12 subprojects
totaling about $5.7 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be
expected to be committed before the end of this fiscal year. The project is
progressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective,, Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.



ANNEX III
- 42 -
BANGLADESH
SECOND CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken t:o prepare project:
6 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:
Chittagong WASA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
September 1978
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
September 1978
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
June 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:
February 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
July 1980
Section II:    Special IDA Impletientation Actions
None



ANNEX III
- 43 -
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  WASA would take over responsibility for all
domestic supplies within its service area
(para 65);
(b)  WASA to provide staffing and training programs
(paras 61, 62 and 64);
(c)  Consultants to be engaged to conduct a feasibility
study in connection with sewerage and other means
of excreta disposal in Chittagong (para 47);
(d)  GOB will take all measures to prevent or control
all discharges to the rivers Karnaphuli and Halda
and their tributaries upstream of Mohara and for
2 miles downstream (para 69);
(e)  CMC to pay for standpipe water at domestic tariff,
and GOB housing colonies to pay for water at domestic
tariff (paras 54 and 55);
(f)  Tariff increases to produce rate of return on
currently valued net fixed assets - FY82 through
84, 2-1/2%; FY85, 3%; FY86, 4%; FY87, 5%; from
FY88, 6% (para 53);
(g)  GOB to pay its water bills within 30 days and WASA
to initiate a program to reduce current receivables
to 16% of annual billings by end-FY82 (para 56);
(h)  GOB to introduce a program of public health educa-
tion (para 65);
(i)  WASA to introduce a program for licensing all private
water abstractions (para 66);
(j)  Special conditions of effectiveness would include:
(i) Appointment of consultants for detailed design
and supervision of construction (para 50);
(ii)  Employment of nine additional professional staff
(paras 61, 62 and 64);
(iii)  Conclusion of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOB and Chittagong WASA
(para 73);
(iv) Preparation by WASA of a program for waste detection
and prevention, and meter repairs (para 57);



ANNEX III
- 44 -
(v)  Appointment of a counterpart to WASA's com-
mercial manager (para 60);
(vi)  Valuation of fixed assets and inventories (para 52);
(vii)  GOB and WASA announcement of a tariff increase
to Taka 7 (domestic) and Taka 20 (non-domestic)
per 1,000 gallons to become effective not later
than Sept:ember 1, 1980 (para 53); and
(viii) GOB approval of the Project Proforma (para 74).



[BRD 14585
TBANGLADESH
1-<     j                                                                               SECOND  CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GROWTH OF CITY LIMITS
)Chttag-ng city lints
( .OOp -                                                           c __    >/   <>                                                                              1961 (1961 municipality)
._ j,4j4 . __                                      Ut   M 0  OiAA K aAuoLPa                                                                                         1974 (Appracirntnly 1961 urban area)
;  .  ,  .,  /              X                ,   0   :   0                   05N                                       !4Xs ' 'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U, -d.,W da9'l^
>'        C                                                                                            - A   Unio   boundariesA            Z/A   :    ~  alw
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ltPapulti- d-nsty:
K  ~                                                       Cr 40     -
-'  -   \ Rd CAMPS/A /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10-50pl.   L.fdg,.h
RI,           ,.,I ;.                                                                          .                                     , ,. ,SO \ix by7>- -OU par acre '\(Cantinaing growth) ......... ..'' 1
\\  2  -jo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  N ~~~~~~~~~~  /                                                                     br~~~~~~~~Ace. with gonctast papulaion 9-oth ae
----U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d
c J    U        U                                       GR. F D 4 K 5 ./ U p AuH   PAd.
i , 8 3 5Nn -l X A K A IS  Ac A                                                           I N b
n= T ''d ./ \  ;  i  | i: 1  6   5          C Mtn
ii rppINDIA
A  UlW   AG                                                O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANG  ADE
N-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c5
IAIARrAll~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06bIu                                                           Oca
/   /    '  .   .   y                                 2                                             I    : ::           N    .     |      -g B A N G4L A D E s H H    I
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
ftcILERs                    1             4                   0   ~
B AY   O F  BENVG AL                                                                                                                                 BUM
caar.cmn.rnraendcnmnb rp.rocfc.ecflaacana/&      AY OF1 4,F7-/A4
,,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai.. a./.ma ;-c 'cc.f''  ',';                          cccc cicancncrnnda *.-D'lciciuohocon ,






IBRD  14656 R
N ~~~~~~~~~~~ A, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESHFERA                                                                                                                                                               18
1-Ais   ( HSN, ! r2 >/f   ntroCAalau4ona  \                    S roDoh                                                                                        SECOND  CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
'  i.  j'  BRUTASO  N\:   ::  i                            t           X    !                                                                                                           WATER DISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM
Vi'I<i FAIETING
~~~~  W1564    4BR         -  >e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~- Water Ines
,: J t b N > A                      .                                                                      /'0< \ ] [1  Reservoirs
  /      MOHAAO   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooC~~~~~~NAH4  ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              o~~   Wells
C-  //  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ap ..egg,
; 4 '   j   S u   _   A  * 9     -                                                         ( * .  _-  -  Pum-pig stiti
INDIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                R t_ raldgy
- Clrrrouaoa5                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bridges
Tidal flues
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  - Jin-e b-uidacs
i(aioruiion, 005/seer \Srt                                               |'  h DCs  I                    n Municipal bourdary
)               ,.  %   --  r~~~~~<  W  9\Bbr   R e<                      s , t1<   
rc  p-a    j  ooro4oy                                         C arsannir.t s"f                       ACh/.   R          Ixsk    u  - -fg 'H  HAZ   /o otH A A Hisiio                                                                         h    ~
,J,,ta,y      nt.-IlA    / f,  *
. ... 3 ,, ,, */, ' ' 0 D At Y 4 0'; S 0 / t; ' 0 ' " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                                                4 
-  - V/N~                                                                                    Ag-aver0                     :M                                                                                  3
8   A   Y ~~~~~~f  9    G  A          ~        ~        ~        ~          Pteea 



