 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14912

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 05/31/2016

               Country: Rwanda
             Project ID: P079414                                                Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Rwanda Transport            Project Costs (US$M):                    69.0                83.5
                         Sector Development
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     11.0                20.9
      Sector Board:      Transport                  Cofinancing (US$M):                     38.0                38.0

          Cofinanciers: Africa Catalytic Growth       Board Approval Date :                                08/28/2007
                        Fund (ACGF)                           Closing Date:             06/30/2012         12/31/2014
         Sector(s):     Central government administration (60%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (40%)
         Theme(s):      Trade facilitation and market access (33%); Administrative and civil service reform (17%);
                        Infrastructure services for private sector development (17%); Rural services and
                        infrastructure (17%); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (16%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Kavita Mathur             John R. Eriksson       Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objectives of the project were to improve the quality of Rwanda's paved road network and to generate sustained
employment in rural areas through road maintenance works (Project Appraisal Document p. 10 and Financing
Agreement p. 5).

Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR) and Additional Financing (AF) the project was restructured. The project
development objectives remained unchanged.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
Original Components

Component 1: Paved Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (appraisal cost US$62.4 million; actual cost US$77.5
million ):
Rehabilitation of approximately 83 km of Kigali-Ruhengeri section of Kigali-Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road and maintenance
of approximately 550 kilometers of paved trunk roads, including sections of Gatuna-Bugarama, Gitarama-Kibuye, and
Rusumo-Gisenyi roads, through execution of multi-year output-based management contracts. This component would
also provide technical assistance in support of rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads.
Component 2: Sector Governance and Policy Support (appraisal cost US$2.6 million; actual cost US$1.9 million):
(a) Under the Sector Governance Improvement sub-component, the project would provide technical assistance to the
Road Agency (RA), the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF), the Vehicle Technical Inspection Center, the Rwanda Civil
Aviation Authority, and the National Public Transport Agency.
(b) The Transport Policy Implementation sub-component included:
(i) Stakeholder workshops and seminars relating to transport policy implementation and regional transport
cooperation;
(ii) Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Infrastructure (MININFRA) in support of program development
and carrying out of strategic studies for transport policy implementation;
(iii) Provision of technical assistance in support of development and implementation of road safety action plan,
improvement of data collection, and establishment of accident database in the Planning, Policy, and Capacity Building
Unit;
(iv) Development and implementation of transport sector HIV/AIDS prevention strategy; and
(v) Provision of technical assistance in support of establishment and training of Local Community Associations (LCAs)
of roadside dwellers in labor-intensive road maintenance.
Component 3: Sector Analysis and Planning Support (appraisal cost US$2.2 million; actual cost US$2.9 million):
(a) Transport Planning and Monitoring Systems: (i) Provision of technical assistance to the Planning, Policies and
Capacity Building Unit (PPCBU) in support of establishment of transport database and monitoring and evaluation
systems relating to Project and Program performance, transport costs, transport industry standards, and other
transport performance indicators; (ii) Transport data collection for planning and monitoring systems; (iii) Acquisition of
information technology equipment and materials for monitoring and evaluation systems.
(b) Capacity Building: (i) Financing of the services of an international university and a local university to provide
long-term in-country training to professional staff of the road agencies, local entrepreneurs, and unemployed
graduates, leading to Masters’ degrees in Road Engineering and Management and Transport Economics and
Planning; (ii) Financing of a local consultant to provide management support to the in country training program.
Component 4: Project and Program Management Support (appraisal cost US$1.2 million; actual cost US$1.2 million):

(i) Financing of Operating Costs of the Planning, Policies and Capacity Building Unit, the Transport Projects and
Program Management Unit (CGPT), and the Road Agency (RA) following its establishment;
(ii) Provision of technical assistance to Infrastructure Planning, Policies and Capacity Building Unit, Transport Projects
Management Unit, the RA, and the RMF in support of Project and Program technical audits; and
(iii) Training of Project and Program management staff in accounting and financial management, procurement and
contract management, and budget preparation and disbursement
Revised Components
Component 1: Paved Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance: The maintenance of the Huye-Kitabi road was dropped,
as the rehabilitation was financed through other financing arrangements undertaken by the government.
Component 2: Sector Governance and Policy Support. (Component remained unchanged).
Components 3 and 4: Sector Analysis and Planning Support: Following activities were added: (i) human capital
development through training on road management tools; (ii) preparation of design and specifications manuals for
roads and bridges; (iii) introduction and customization of road management tools including Roads Economic Decision
Model (RED), Highway Development and Management Model (HDM) and Road Network Evaluation Tool; (iv)
provision of technical assistance (TA), training and Information technology equipment for RMF was reallocated from
Component 4 to Component 3, while RMF was expected to conduct technical audit of maintenance contracts from its
own resources.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: The actual project cost was US$83.5 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$69 million.
Financing: At appraisal the project was financed through two sources: (a) an IDA credit (49680) of US$11 million; (b)
a grant of US$38 million from Africa Catalytic Growth Fund (ACGF).
On December 20, 2011, Additional Financing (H3310) in the amount of US$11 million was provided to cover the
financing gap due to cost overrun of the contract for the rehabilitation of Kigali-Ruhengeri road. During
implementation, the government requested that Kigali-Ruhengeri road be widened from 6.2m to 7m. The total actual
contract price was US$45.78 million for both works and supervision against US$38 million at appraisal. The additional
cost was related to widening of the road, including slide protection, raising the level of side drains, provision of
culverts, sealing and widening of shoulders. The other cause of the cost overrun was inflation (due to delayed
implementation). The ICR does not provide figures for the inflation rate.
An undisbursed amount of US$0.4 million was cancelled in May 2015 from the IDA Grant (H3310) and Credit (49680).
US$15,385.11 was refunded from the designated account by the Client.

Borrower contribution : The actual government contribution was US$24 million compared to the appraisal commitment
of US$20.0 million.
Dates: First, the closing date of the project was extended by eighteen months from June 2012 to December 2013 in
order to complete various activities under original project and the widening of Kigali-Ruhengeri road under the
Additional Financing (see section 5). The project was further extended by one year to December 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rated substantial.
The project objectives remained relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy FY14-18 which identified high transport
costs and an insufficient logistics system as a major constraint to Rwanda’s internal trade and competitiveness of
exports.
The project was designed in response to the government's request for much needed assistance to the country which
was coming out of a devastating civil war and genocide, both of which affected production and infrastructure, including
transport. This project was part of the government's five-year transport improvement program which was integral to
the government’s Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS). The objectives of the program
as defined in the government’s transport policy matrix were to: (i) improve transport links internally and internationally;
(ii) reduce and keep transport costs under control; (iii) improve the institutional framework and strengthen the capacity
of partners involved in the sector; (iv) improve road safety; and (v) achieve sustainable financing for road
maintenance.


b. Relevance of Design:
Rated substantial.
The statement of objectives was clear, straightforward and measurable. Most of the activities foreseen in Components
1 (paved roads rehabilitation and maintenance), 2 (sector governance and policy support), and 3 (sector analysis and
planning support) were relevant to, and logically linked with, the achievement of the objective to improve the quality of
Rwanda's paved road network and to generate sustained employment in rural areas through road maintenance works.
The project design included the development of institutional and road maintenance capacities and relevant global
priorities such as road safety and combating HIV/AIDS. The project provided support towards the formation of the
Rwanda Transport Development Agency which was aimed at ensuring sustainable management and monitoring of
transport sector activities.
The engagement of Local Community Associations for the maintenance of the national road network provided
employment opportunities for road side communities.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Improve the quality of Rwanda's paved road network through road maintenance works: rated substantial.

Outputs
    Rehabilitation of Kigali-Ruhengeri road was completed on September 18, 2012. Some construction defects were
     observed and the ICR reports (p. 23) that the defects were addressed during the defects liability period.
    Three multi-year maintenance contracts with a total length of 277 km were completed in November 2014.
    Establishment and training of 283 Local Community Associations (LCAs). LCAs were assigned the responsibility
     of routine maintenance of the national road network.
    Performance agreements between Ministry of Infrastructure (MININFRA) and Rwanda Transport Development
     Agency (RTDA); and MININFRA and Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) were signed.
    The project facilitated the passing of Roads Act (2011) and the RTDA Act (2011).
    A Transport Master Plan was prepared.
    A sector level HIV/AIDS prevention strategy was prepared.
    A road database was established for the RTDA and was being used in the planning, programming and
     management of interventions on the national road network.
    The project contributed to the long term in-country training in transportation which was delivered by Kigali
     Institute of Science and Technology (KIST). 52 students (compared to the target of 50) completed master’s
     degrees of which 30 students were in Highway Engineering and Management and 22 students in Transportation
     Studies. The graduates of the program were working in both the public and private sector.
    RTDA regularly organized refresher courses in road routine maintenance, environmental protection and
     protection against HIV/AIDS and sexual transmitted diseases. These training's were organized through
     supervision mission contracts for different on-going road projects. The ICR reported that at project closure, such
     training was being carried out for the recently completed Kigali-Gatuna road project under the financing of the
     European Union (EU).
Outcomes
    The project established a system for sustainable financing of road maintenance through the provision of technical
     assistance to the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF). The Government of Rwanda through the RMF contributed
     over US$24 million towards the maintenance of the paved road network under the project, exceeding the
     commitment amount of US$20 million.
    The project improved the management and operational efficiency in sector institutions through the establishment
     of management information and statistical systems, and targeted training.
    At project closure 62 percent of the paved road network was in good condition compared to the target of 50
     percent.
    A beneficiary assessment survey was conducted after implementation and reported that the project investment
     resulted in the improvement in wealth of the population in the project area, increase in number of education
     facilities and enrolment rates, increase in price of land and housing, and improved access to credit facilities and
     other employment opportunities inter alia.
Generate sustained employment in rural areas through road maintenance works: rated high.
Outputs
Under the project 283 cooperatives of road side dwellers were created by MININFRA. These cooperatives comprised
of a total manpower of 11,322 people. Road side rural dwellers were trained in labor intensive road maintenance
works through two local consulting firms. The staff from MININFRA held meetings with the Ministry of Local
Government and district authorities and urged them to use LCAs in their road development programs. Since 2012,
119 LCAs were used in conducting routine maintenance in 26 districts on a section of the road network of 2,962 km
including components financed by the Bank such as the periodic maintenance of the Kagitumba-Kayonza-Rusumo
(208 km) and Gitarama-Kibuye (78km) roads.
Outcomes
The engagement of Local Community Associations(LCAs), local communities and micro enterprises on 801 km of the
national road network resulted in providing employment opportunities to 3,041 (51.5% men, and 48.5% women) road
side dwellers exceeding the target (3,000). The LCAs have developed capacity to carry out routine road maintenance
in a sustainable way.


 5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal, cost-benefit analyses for paved rehabilitation work for Kigali-Ruhengeri and Ruhengeri-Rubavu
(Gisenyi) links were conducted using the Highway Development and Management (HDM) model. The ex-ante ERR
was 13.5 percent.
The project experienced both cost and time overruns. The project cost increased by 28.9% due to widening of the
Kigali - Ruhengeri road, which was requested by the government and financed through Additional Financing. The
other cause of the cost overrun was inflation (due to delayed implementation). The closing date of the project was
extended by 2.5 years.
An ex-post economic analysis was conducted using traffic data of 2010 and 2013. The calculation of vehicle operating
costs was done using the HDM-4 model. The ex-post ERR was 30.8 percent. The ex-post ERR is much higher than
the ex-ante ERR, despite cost and time overruns due to much higher benefits resulting from the widening of the road.
At appraisal, traffic growth rate was assumed at 4.8 percent. However, actual growth rate during 2005 to 2010 before
the commencement of the project was significantly higher, i.e. 7.2 percent. Moreover, the traffic growth rate between
2010 and 2013 was 13.3 percent, which is almost 3 times higher than the predicted traffic growth at the time of
appraisal, i.e. 2006.
The efficiency of the project is rated substantial.
 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                      13.5%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                      30.8%                                    100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The objectives and design of the project were substantially relevant. The efficacy of the objective to improve the
quality of Rwanda's paved road network through road maintenance works is rated substantial. The efficacy of the
objective to generate sustained employment in rural areas through road maintenance works is rated high. However
the project efficiency is rated substantial due to cost and time overruns. The project outcome is rated satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Government Commitment : To reduce deterioration of roads due to overloading, the government is planning to adopt
the law on axle load control and the traffic on the paved road network will be subject to weight controls.
Institutional Capacity : Although, the project assisted in enhancing the capacity of the staff of MININFRA and RTDA,
there are still some challenges. By project closure, RTDA was having difficulty of retaining trained staff. A Special
Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) was established in July 2014 to support all externally funded projects until the
issue of staffing is resolved.
Local Capacity: The project has created cooperatives of roadside dwellers (LCAs) to carry out routine maintenance
works.
Financial: The project established the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) which provided over US$24 million of funding
for the maintenance of the paved road network.
Landslides: Major landslides occurred along the completed road and RTDA carried out repair works. Slides could still
be a major challenge along the rehabilitated road. The landslide problem is a natural challenge that has to be dealt
with through the programmed maintenance budget.
The risk to development outcome rating is assessed as moderate.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The project was jointly prepared by the Africa Catalytic Growth Fund (ACGF) and International Development
Association (IDA). The project was in line with both the Country Assessment Evaluation (CAE) conducted by the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) in 2003 and the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) of the
previous Bank supported operation, the Rwanda Transport Sector Project (RTSP), which recommended that
future IDA support should focus on rebuilding Rwanda’s depleted institutional and road maintenance capacities.
The ICR proposed continued support by external donors in reducing the backlog of road maintenance and
rehabilitation works. It further recommended the increased use of labor-based construction approaches in order to
promote employment, particularly in rural areas.
The overall project risk at appraisal was assessed as high and the Bank put in place adequate mitigation
measures including institutional and capacity building activities, the establishment of a RTDA, project
management support by external consultants and monitoring of projects by international firms including an
independent technical auditor. The project design made the establishment of FM systems as a condition of
effectiveness and the recruitment of an environmental specialist and procurement team to reinforce the Transport
Project Implementation Unit (CGPT).
The main shortcoming of the project was inadequate geological investigations ex ante, leading to suboptimal
designs, as evidenced by frequent landslides during implementation. The project could have provided tools to the
implementing agency to identify and mitigate these risks, particularly at the design stage.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR notes (p. 18) that regular implementation support missions were conducted and the Bank team
provided technical, fiduciary and safeguards support to the client during project implementation. The project
experienced substantial procurement delays at the start of the project. The Bank team was responsive and
exerted extra effort to improve procurement by providing "procurement technical assistance" to RTDA from 2013
to the close of the project. The Bank team commissioned external consultants to conduct independent technical
and safeguards audits.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The government was committed to the project and ensuring that the paved road network was in good condition
. At appraisal the government committed US$20 million and by project closure it had contributed US$24 million
through the Road Maintenance Fund. To better manage the roads sector, the government enacted the Road Act in
2011. It also established the RTDA in 2011 as an agency responsible for the development of transport
infrastructure projects.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The capacity of MININFRA with regards to procurement, and contract management was low. This resulted in
significant delays early on during project implementation. In 2011, the RTDA was established with support from
the additional financing. RTDA also suffered from limitations in procurement capacity and was unable to hire
appropriate procurement capacity after its establishment, resulting in delay in procurement and implementation of
the project. A procurement specialist was recruited towards project closure to assist with the remaining
procurement activities. The establishment of the Special Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) improved the
capacity of RTDA, by attracting experienced staff with improved remuneration packages. There were delays in
some instances in submission of audit reports as well as inaccurate preparation of some Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The outcome indicators were appropriate for measuring the project objectives. The indicators were: (i)
improvements in the road network condition, and (ii) permanent employment generation. The project design included
data collection in the form of surveys at three intervals during implementation that is, at the beginning of the project,
prior to the MTR, and in the last year of the project. The first survey together with data collected during project
preparation, were to improve the baseline data for the project. The second survey was to facilitate the MTR, while the
third was to provide material for end-of-project assessments, including for the ICR. The project also included provision
to help establish an M&E system within MININFRA. Given the weak capacity of MININFRA at the time of project
preparation, it was agreed that data collection was to be administered by external consultants.

b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR reports (p.71) that the surveys were carried out and the data helped the project to monitor all core and
intermediate indicators with respect to its periodical or annual targets.
At the time of additional financing, the following core indicators were added: (i) share of rural population with access to
an all-season road, and (ii) direct project beneficiaries.
During implementation, a beneficiary survey was conducted by RTDA. Six questionnaire surveys were undertaken to
assess impacts on beneficiaries by all four components of the project. A stratified random sampling technique was
employed for the questionnaire surveys. In order to maintain normal distribution, a sufficient number of samples were
collected from each stratum, i.e. at least 30 samples for each vehicle type were collected. In total 270 interviews were
conducted in the study.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR reports (p. 11) that RTDA is using the road database that was set up under the project for planning,
programming and management of the national road network.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Environmental Category at appraisal: B.
At appraisal, Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.0 1) policy was triggered because rehabilitation works could affect
trees and vegetation along the road to be rehabilitated. The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment was
prepared and disclosed in-country on January 15, 2006 and submitted to InfoShop on January 14, 2006.
At the time of Additional Financing (AF), Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11) safeguard policy was triggered. The
Environmental Impact Assessment for the Kigali-Ruhengeri road was updated to ensure that the civil works would
carefully avoid existing cultural assets, such as burial and archeological sites. Guidelines for “chance finding of
culturally important archeological objects” procedure was integrated into the contracts for construction and road
maintenance consultants. These included development of a cultural property management plan if physical cultural
resources were found
The rehabilitation and maintenance works were expected to be carried out along existing road alignment, therefore
the additional financing did not involve land acquisition/involuntary resettlement (as was the case in the original
project).
An environmental Specialist was hired by the implementing agency to monitor potentially adverse environmental and
social impacts of project operations. The specialist monitored environmental and social safeguards compliance for all
road investment operations in the sector. The contractor for the roads projects followed the Environment and Social
Management Plan (ESMP). An Environmental Audit was conducted and it did not discover any major issues during
project implementation.
The ICR reports (p. 11) that the implementation of the ESMP was satisfactory and the overall safeguards compliance
rating for the project as satisfactory.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management : The ICR p.12 reports that financial management procedures and arrangements met the
Bank’s minimum requirements for project FM as per OP/BP 10.02. The financial statements of the project were
audited and the auditor reports were unqualified. The reports also mentioned that the designated account statements
presented a true and fair view in accordance with IDA and ACGF Grants requirements. However, the ICR reports (p.
19) that there were delays in some instances in submission of audit reports as well as inaccurate preparation of some
IFRs.
Procurement: The ICR p.12 reports that all aspects of procurement procedures were managed professionally during
implementation. An assessment of the capacity of the implementing agencies involved in procurement for the project
was carried out at appraisal. The procurement capacity of the newly established RTDA was weak. RTDA inherited a
backlog of delayed procurement of the consultancy services. It was unable to hire procurement staff which hampered
progress of the activities under the project. During implementation (from 2013 to project closure), the project provided
technical assistance to RTDA on procurement. A procurement specialist was finally engaged in 2013 to assist with the
remaining procurement activities and to provide on-the- job training.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None.

d. Other:
None.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory      Project achievement on both objectives
                               Satisfactory                                   was high and substantial for a very
                                                                              relevant project. In addition, the
                                                                              additional financing and time overruns
                                                                              were justified by the project's returns
                                                                              with regards to efficiency.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The key lessons learned from this project are:
  Institutional reforms conducted in parallel to project implementation can cause delays . The operationalization
    of the new institutions require longer time as the development of human capital to an acceptable and stable
    stage is a continuous process.
  Local Community Associations (LCAs) can be engaged in road maintenance . The project experience showed
    that LCAs were employed by districts along the national road network to conduct routine maintenance.
  Applying innovative and cost saving methods, including contracting road rehabilitation works under Output and
    Performance-Based Road Contracting (OPRC) and/or contracting maintenance works for many years is an
    option that should be practiced to ensure continued maintenance of the classified roads.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is candid and provides useful information to assess project performance. The quality of evidence and the
quality of analysis is satisfactory. There are some inconsistencies in the text regarding the financial management of
the project. The ICR p.12 reports that financial management procedures and arrangements met the Bank’s minimum
requirements for project FM. However, the ICR reports (p. 19) that there were delays in some instances in submission
of audit reports as well as inaccurate preparation of some IFRs.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
