,          R~R      IC   ED
1  .rt           PA-68a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specificaDy authorized organizations
or personfL It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
June 15, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          = Dollars (E$) 2.50
E$l           =  us$o.4o
WEIGHTS AND MASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1,000 kg (1 metric ton)  =  2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)            =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha
= 0.39 sq ml
= 247.11 acres
1 liter (1)               = 0.26 gallon
1,000 millimeters (mm)   =  39.37 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
iErG               =  Imperial Ethiopian Government
DDA                =  Dairy Development Agency
AADI                =  Addis Ababa Dairy Industry
DBE                =  Development Bank of Ethiopia
EIC                =  Ethiopian Investment Corporation
AIDB                =  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
GDP                =  Gross Domestic Product



ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................... .i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION  . ................ . .......................      1
II.  BACKGROUND .......    *   ... ....  , , ,    ........*   . .......*    1
A.  General .............      , .,.                          1
Climate ............    ..........1......
Population and GDP ......................,.    2
Exports and Imports .                                    2
B.  The Agricultural Sector       .     .2.........  .................    2
Contribution of Agriculture to the Economy. .            2
Land Use ...........   ............. .................    3
Crops ...,  3
Livestock . .                                            3
Animal Health ...........                  .     .       4
C,. The Dairy Industry ............                            4
D. Agricultural Credit ........................,               5
LII .  THE  PROJECT    .................... .   ,  ,  ,   ......... .  6
A.  General Description       ..       .....  .. .....         6
Definition and Purpose .... ..................    6
Project Area  .. .... ...... ................            6
B. Detailed Features ...... ....... . ......                   7
On-Farm Development ........ . ..   .     ..... . ...    7
Milk Collection and Processing Facilities.               8
Technical Services     ..............         .....      8
C.  Cost Estimates .................. ....................   10
D.  Proposed Financing ..................................   11
E. Procurement ................                   ..................   12
F. Disbursement    ..13
G.  Organization and Management        ..14
It. Lending Operations    ..16
I. Auditing          .. ......... 17
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Ethiopia
in April/May 1970, composed of Messrs. D. N. Sutherland and M. J. McGarry
(IDA) and Messrs. K. Cheriyan (FAO/IBRD) and H. Ochs (Consultant).



2-
Page No.
IV.   MARKETS, PRICES, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND REVENUE GENEMTION    17
Markets           .      .      ............... * ......    17
Prices                       ....  18
Producer Benefits   ...              . . ........  19
Revenue Generation             ....19
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................    20
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......                       ..     .......        20
ANNEXES
1.   Dairy Cattle Husbandry and Disease Control
2.   Credit Institutions and Agricultuwal Credit
3.   Livestock Procurement, Demand and Supply of Dairy Heifers
Table 1 - Project Demaon  and Supply of Dairy Cattle
Figure 1 - Effect of Age and Price of Heifers en Rate of Return
4.   Abermossa Cross-Breeding Ranch - 800 Cows
Table 1 - Herd Development PTojections
5.   Private Cross-Breeding Ranch Model - 200 Cows
Table 1 - Herd Development Projections
Table 2 - Investment Costs  *Aa  Fixn= Ig
Table 3 - Projections of laeoae aed Operating Costs
Table 4 - Financial Proj*ctions
6.   Holleta Dairy Stud Farm - 100 Cows
Table 1 - Herd Development Projections
Table 2 - Investment Costs and Financing
Table 3 - Income Projections
Table 4 - Operating Costs Projections
Table 5 - Financial Projections
7.   Medium Size Farm Model - 40 Cove
Table 1 - Herd Development Projections
Table 2 - Investments Gomas and Financing
Table 3 - Projections of Inecm  and Operating Costs
Table 4 - Financial Projectios



-3-
ANNEXES (Continued)
8.   Small Farm Model - 10 Cows
Table 1 - Herd Development Projections
Table 2 - Investment Costs and Financing
Table 3 - Projections of Income and Operating Costs
Table 4 - Financial Projections
9.   Shola Dairy Plant - Technical Aspects
Table 1 - Financial Projections
Table 2 - Projections of Income and Operating Costs
Table 3 - Investment Costs and Financing
10. Phasing of the Lending Program
11. Estimated Schedule of Disbursmenent of IDA Credit
12. Dairy Development Agency
Table 1 - Technical and Administrative Staff Requirements
Table 2 - Costs of Technical and Administrative Services
Table 3 - Breakdown of Costs of Technical and Administrative
Services
Table 4 - Financial Projections
13. Dairy Development Agency Organization Chart
14. Milk Marketing and Prices in Addis Ababa
15. Financial Rates of Return
Table 1 - Privately Owned Farms
Table 2 - Holleta Dairy Stud Farm - 100 Cows
16. Economic Rate of Return
MAP
Ethiopia/Project Area



ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises; a Project for development of dairy produc-
tion in the Addis Ababa area to supply milk to that city. Present daily
milk supply to Addis Ababa, a city of about 685,000 people, varies sea-
sonally between 13,000 and 25,000 liters, representing a very low per capita
consumption.
ii.       About half the present milk supply has been marketed in recent years
through the Addis Ababa Dairy Industry (AADI), a section within the Ministry
of Agriculture, which operated the Shola Dairy Plant and a milk collection
scheme. AADI increased its annual milk throughput from 290,000 liters in 1961
to 3,070,000 liters in 1969.
iii.      The Addis Ababa area is well suited ecologically to development
of a dairy industry because of its temperate climate and moderate to high
rainfall. Major constraints to such development in the past have been lack
of adequate technical knowledge and services for dairy cattle husbandry and
shortage of improved dairy cattle.
iv.       The Project would provide for on-farm development of approximately
240 small and 110 medium size dairy farms to carry a total of about 7,000
dairy cows; for importation and breeding of dairy cattle for these farms; for
technical services to farmers; for additional facilities and organization
for collection, processing and marketing of milk; and for hiring of consultant
services to carry out feasibility studies and prepare a second livestock
development project.
v.        An autonomous, Government owned agency, the Dairy Development Agency
(DDA), would have the major responsibility for administration of the Project.
It has taken over from the Ministry of Agriculture the assets of AADI includ-
ing Shola Dairy Plant and the milk collecting centers. Onlending to farmers
would be handled by the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB),
acting as agent for the Government.
vi.       Proceeds of the Credit would be passed on to DDA and AIDB by the
Government for approved Project purposes at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per
annum for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of six years. AIDB
would make sub-loans for approved Project purposes from the proceeds of the
IDA Credit at an interest rate of 9-1/2% per annum for periods not exceeding
14 years, including a grace period of five years.
vii.      Because of the inadequacy of existing technical services within the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Project would provide, through DDA, for techni-
cal, veterinary and artificial insemination services to participating farmers.



- 2-
viii.     The total costs of the Project are estimated at US$6.5 million.
An IDA Credit of US$4.4 million is proposed. It would finanoe approximately
US$1.0 million of local currency expenditure as well as the foreign exchange
component of US$3.4 million, which is equivalent to 53% of total project
costs. Government and DDA would finance about US$1.6 million equivalent and
farmers about US$0.5 million equivalent.
ix.       The categories of Project cost are:  US$2.8 million equivalent for
on-farm investments, including US$1.6 million for dairy cattle prscueant;
US$0.3 million equivalent for further investments in Shla Dairy Plant and
milk collection centers; US$1.8 million equivalent for technical services
and administrative costs of DDA; US$0.5 million equivalent for iucremental
working capital for participating farmers and DDA; US$0.4 miLllion equiva-
lent for carrying out feasibility studies; and US$0.6 mil;lion jLvaleat fo-r
contingencies. In addition existing Government assets at an estJmted value
of US$0.6 million equivalent would be taken over by D=.
X.        Approximately 5,500 heifers of Eurepeax dairy bxeed  (principally
Friesian) would be required for Project purposes, of which sa    3,900 would
have to be imported.  International comptitie bUWing, is not appropriate
for purchase of livestock, but adequate safebArda would bwe eafuore  to en-
sure that due regard would be given to pricea a" qu4ty conaidzations.
xi.       The fiancial rates of return to participating faxasra  are esti-
mated at 17% to 21%. These estimates axe baau  on retail mU  prices
of US$0.20 equivalent per liter in the initial years of the Project, de-
clining to US$0.16 equivalent by year 11.  This latter price is na higher
than the retail milk price in most West European countries and it is con-
siderably below the price in most other African cities.
xii.      On the basIs of a projected retail price of US$0.16i eWmalent per
liter for milk, rate of returu to the econmy on the Proj-eat is eatiamted at
approximately 12%. The Project woul4 hav  important side bneafits,.in istro-
ducing improved dairy production methoda and., establishing a. unclwo  about
7,200 dairy type cattle as a ba&Is for further expansion of- daftylag. i-s
Ethiopia.
xiii.     The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$44.4 milion.. The
Borrower would be the Imperial Ethiopian Government.



ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) has requested an IDA
Credit to assist the financing of a dairy development Project to increase
the supply of milk to the Addis Ababa market. This would be the third IDA
Credit for agricultural development in Ethiopia. The two previous credits
were for the Wolamo Agricultural Development Project, 169-ET, made in Novem-
ber 1969 and the Humera Agricultural Development Project, 188-ET, made in
May 1970.
1.02      This Project, the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project, would
include on-farm development of about 350 dairy farms in the Addis Ababa
region and improvement to the system of milk collection, transport, pro-
cessing and marketing for Addis Ababa. Ancillary to these objectives, it
would provide for importation and breeding of dairy cattle and for technical
services to dairy farmers. An autonomous agency, the Dairy Development Agency
(DDA), has been established to execute parts of the Project.
1.03      The livestock and meat industry is also one of Ethiopia's best
prospects for development, provided a number of serious constraints can be
overcome. In April/May 1970, a Bank Group mission visited Ethiopia to study
and make recommendations on an overall strategy for livestock development,
to help identify projects and to make recommendations on project prepara-
tion. Funds would be provided within this credit to finance feasibility
studies for future livestock development projects.
1.04      This Project was prepared initially by a project preparation
committee of the IEG assisted by staff of the Permanent Mission in Eastern
Africa. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
posed of Messrs. D. N., Sutherland, M. J. McGarry (IDA), K. Cheriyan (FAO/
IBRD) and H. Ochs (consultant), which visited Ethiopia in April/May, 1970.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.18 million km , lies between
latitudes 3° and 180 N in East Africa, on an elevated plateau broken by the
Rift Valley, extending from the Red Sea southwest to Lake Rudolph.
Climate
2.02      The high altitude more than the latitude determines climate and
land use. The highlands north of the Rift Valley are about 2,000 to 3,000
m above sea level, but some mountains are higher than 4,000 m. The climate



- 2 -
of the highlands generally is moderate, with only small variation during
the year and high rainfall, but it is hot and dry in the highlands south-
east of the Rift Valley, as well as in the lowlands. The country can be
divided into four climatic and ecological zones.
(a)  the mountain zone above 3,200 mi where high rainfall
and lo temnperatures preclude cultivation;
(b) a cool zone with average temperatures from 10' to
18^C, rainfall above 1,000 on and altitudes between
2,100 and 3,200 m;
(c) a temperate zone with average temperatures between
16* and 20C and altitudes between 1,500 and 2,100 m;
and
(d) the hot zone below 1 500 m, which has an average
temperature above 20 C and low rainfall.
Population and GDP
2.03      The population of Ethiopia at about 25 million is increasing
at approximately 2X per year.  About 92% of the people ldme in mural areas
but urban population is rising rapidly. During 1961-4969, GDP grew at a
rate of about 4.5% per year. In 1969 it totalled US$1.5 billiou, nearly
60% of which came from agriculture. Per capita income at US$63 is one of
the lowest in the world.
Exports and Imports
2.04      In 1968, agriculture generated about 85% of total de,ptrts, which
were valued at US$106 million. Coffee contributed about 582 of experts.,
and oilseeds, vegetables and hides and skins shared second place, each with
about 9%.  Although imports far exceed exports there has been uo serous
balance of payments problem due to capital inflow. However., Ethiqpia,must
diversify her exports and replace imports by domestic production ln crier to
achieve a reasonable growth of the economy.
B.  The A&1cul.tural Sectar
Contribution of agriculture to the Eoon.2y
2.05      The seooney of Ethiqpia is based UaWgely on subsistence;agricul-
ture. The average farm size is estimated4at 3.3 ha, but about fi0 of *he
5 million UfarerS cultivate less than :.2 ha. Agriculture provides 90Z of
emiployment.  The gmas value of a  UinuYnural production increased over the
period 1961 to 19&9 at a rate of smgb  2X% y   year,, whereas total GDP bad
a growth rate of about 4.5X per "ot  Muw  the  same period..  The growth
in agriculture barely kept pace with  -oulation increase.



-3-
Land Use
2.06      Only 8% of the total land area of Ethiopia is under cultivation
while the remainder is taken up by grazing grounds (28%), open brush and
scrub (25%), open woodland (3%) and areas not suitable for plant and live-
stock production (36%).
Crops
2.07      Ihe different ecological zones allow cultivation of numerous crops.
Teff, wheat, barley, maize, sorghum, millet and pulses are grown in the cool
and temperate zones. Conditions for the cultivation of coffee, tea and
citrus are particularly favorable. The production of a variety of fruits
and vegetables is important in view of their export potential. Use of
around 1 million ha of potentially irrigable land would permit increased
cultivation of industrial crops such as cotton, oilseeds, sugar cane and
sugar beet and of high yielding forage crops.
Livestock
2.08      With about 26 million cattle, 12 million sheep and 11 million
goats and about 56% of the total land surface suitable for grazing, Ethiopia's
livestock represents a major national resource.  This resource, however, makes
a disproportionately small contribution to national income and export earn-
ings due to unsatisfactory management, seasonal shortages of feed supply and
diseases.
2.09      The indigenous cattle belong to the Zebu type.  Of particular im-
portance are the Borana cattle in the South, which are highly valued for
meat production. Under good management, the indigenous cattle show good
growth characteristics but poor milking abilities (400 to 700 liters per
lactation of 150 to 180 days).
2.10      Of the 26 million cattle, it is estimated that between 6 and 7
million are working oxen. Sample surveys indicate that, depending on the
different regions, only 27% to 35% of the cattle population are breeding
cows. A survey in Southern Ethiopia showed that two-thirds of the calves
born survived one year and 60% two years. Thus, with an interval of ap-
proximately 18 months between calving, the number of progeny that survived
to an age of two years per 100 cows was about 40, which is considered to be
low. The information derived from this survey is accepted in Ethiopia as
being generally applicable to the whole country.
2.11      Grazing is generally on a communal basis in the pastoral areas.
In cultivated regions, it is mostly on an individual basis. The typical
herd in agricultural regions has five to 10 animals. Some farmers have
no cattle and up to 80% have only a few head to provide draught power and
milk for home consumption. Herds are larger in the pastoral southern
provinces but the majority of herds there contain less than 20 animals.



-4-
2.12      Pasture management is poor and overstocking is common.  Scarce
stock watering facilities are often a serious limitation to efficient
exploitation of the available resources, especially in the pastoral areas.
2.13      The fodder resources are natural grassland supplemented by crop
residue and stubble in the cultivated regions. Most of the r^isfall occurs
during a period of three to four months, so that there are long periods of
malnutrition.  Feeding of hay during the dry season is practiced ow.dairy
farms around the larger cities; elsewhere no hay is fed. Fodder production,
preparation of silage and rotational grazing are unknown.
2.14      The large seasonal variation in fodder availability results iu a
very poor growth rate of animals, Cattle are generally over five-years of
age before they are ready for slaughter and have a body condition satis-
factory only for the most modest standard of carcass quality.
Animal Health
2.15      The major epidemic diseases of cattle, rinderpest, foot-and-mouth
disease (types A, 0 and C) and contagious bovine pleuropneuaonias(CBPP),
occur in Ethiopia. Effective vaccines are available for controlFof these
diseases.  Anthrax, blackleg and haemrrbhagc sptica4ema aleo occur spora-
dically but they also can be controlled by vaccination. The tkclhborne
diseases, heartwater, babesiosis and anaplamosis, have bme remcrded in
the Addis Ababa area, but can be controlled by regular dipping or spraying.
The most serious tick-borne disease, East Coast Fever, occurs in Ethiopia
but not in the Addis Ababa region. Internal parasites, including liver
fluke, are a serious problem in cattle ih the highland areas. However,
they present little problem with dairy cattle that are housed. Generally,
commercial dairy farmers take adequate measures to control all chows
disease conditions and tick infestation, while owners of native cattle
do very little in this regard.
C. The _Dairy ;Idusty
2.16      Although milk is produced from-native Zebu cattle ftr home
consumption throughout Ethiopia, cotmercial milk production has buen eastab-
lished only in the Asmara and Addis Ababa areas. In the Asmara areaa there
are about 25 commercial herds with about 3,500 improved dairy cow.  There
appears to be little if any scope for increasing production in this area as
the market is not expanding.
2.17      In the Addis Ababa area4 a 8sytem of milk collection, prQoessing
an,d marketing has been operated by the Addis Ababa Dairy Industry (AADI), a
s.ction within the Ministry of Agriculture.  It operated a number of mik
collection centers and the Shola Datry ftont, vhich has capacity to pasteur-
ize and bottle 30,000 liters of mi-lk per dafy on one shift.  UNICEF assisted
in the establishment of the dairy plant and the milk collection system. In



connection with this Project, the plant and the collection and marketing fa-
cilities have been turned over to the Dairy Development Agency (DDA). There
are approximately 40 commercial farms with herds ranging from 10 to 250 im-
proved dairy cows; about 30 supply milk through DDA. Around 1,250 smaller
dairy farmers also supply milk to DDA. There are, in addition, an indeter-
minate number of individuals owning one or two cows and selling small amounts
of milk independently. Most of the commercial herds comprise cattle of
the European dairy breeds and their crosses, while the herds of small
farmers are practically all native cattle. Dairy cattle husbandry and
disease control are discussed in more detail in Annex 1.
2.18      There are no reliable figures on actual milk supply to Addis Ababa
as the amounts sold outside the DDA marketing system are not recorded.
Sales by AADI increased by approximately 160% between 1965 and 1969. In
1969, AADI's daily average sales were 8,500 liters with a range from 5,900
liters in April to 11,700 liters in October. A survey in September 1969
indicated that "hawkers" were supplying about 4,000 liters per day. Sales
by the large commercial farmers are estimated to average about 4,000 liters
per day. Overall daily milk sales probably range from about 13,000 liters
during the dry season (March-April) to 25,000 liters in the flush season
(September-October).
2.19      Population of Addis Ababa is estimated at about 685,000, with an
annual growth rate of 6.2%. However, only a small proportion of this popu-
lation has sufficient income to be able to purchase milk regularly. DDA
operates a number of retailing booths through which it sells milk in 1/2-
liter bottles at a price of US$0.20 equivalent per liter (para 4.06). At
this price, demand exceeds supply. Milk sold by commercial farmers and
"hawkers" sells at prices well above the DDA price. Towards the end of
1970, DDA commenced marketing of reconstituted milk, made from imported
skim milk powder, at a price of US$0.12 equivalent per liter.
D. Agricultural Credit
2.20      Non-institutional agencies, charging high interest rates, consti-
tute at present the main source of agricultural credit in Ethiopia. The
major constraints to expansion of institutional credit are the predominance
of holdings operated by tenant farmers who have little or no security of
tenure and the absence of legal provisions for chattel mortgage. The Govern-
ment has recently merged the former Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE) and
Ethiopian Investment Corporation (EIC) into one new credit institution, the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), along lines proposed by
a Financial Intermediaries Reorganization Commission, appointed by Government
to study and report on this issue. Prior to the merger, DBE advanced medium-
and long-term credit to both small and large farmers. However, it had a
poor record of recovery performance and consequently a weak financial position.
EIC extended credit in agriculture only to relatively large farming enter-
prises. The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), another state-owned bank,
deals almost exclusively in short-term credit. Certain special agencies,



- 6 -
such as the Chilalu anid Wolamo Agricultural Units, functioning as part of
the Ministry of Agriculture, and the FAO Fertilizer Program also deal in
short-term production credit in specific areas but ttae total volume of credit
advanced is low. The cooperative movement is still at a very early stage
of development and, with a few exceptions, cooperatives have yet to emerge
as viable institutions for channeling credit. The banking institutions in
Ethiopia also have very little experience in financing livestock or dairy
development. Agricultural credit is discussed in more detail in Annex 2.
III. THE PROJLCT
A. General Description
Definition and Purpose
3.01      The objective of the Project is to increase production of milk
for the Addis Ababa market. It would provide for on-farm development of
approximately 240 small farms (average of 10 milking cows each), and 110
medium size dairy farms (average of 40 milking cows each) including impor-
tation and breeding of dairy cattle for these farms; for establishment of
about seven ranches to breed cross-bred dairy heifers, of one dairy stud farm
and one farm to be used for reception of imported dairy cattle; for technical
services to farmers; for additional facilities and organization for collec-
tion, processing and marketing of milk; and for employment of consultants to
carry out feasibility studies and prepare future livestock development proj-
ects. An autonomous agency, the Dairy Development Agency (DDA), has been
created to execute all aspects of the Project except on-lending to farmers,
which will be handled by AIDB acting as agent for the Government, and the
feasibility studies on future livestock projects.
Project Area
3.02      Participating dairy farms would be located in Shoa Province with-
in a radius of 120 km of Addis Ababa; ranches for breeding of dairy heifers
would be located in the highland area within a radius of 250 km of Addis
Ababa (see Map of Project Area).
3.03      The altitude of the Project area is in the range of 2,200 to
2,500 m. The climate, which is temperate, is quite suitable for cattle of
the European dairy breeds or crosses between these breeds and native cat-
tle. Average annual rainfall of the Project area is in the range of 800
to 1,200 mm. Despite the seasonal nature of rainfall, with an annual dry
season of about six months, it is adequate for growth of productive pastures
and crops. However, seasonal effects on livestock and milk production are
signtficant.



-7-
B. Detailed Features
On-Farm Development
3.04      An essential feature of the farm development proposals would be
the use of improved cattle of the European dairy breeds or their crosses
to replace native cattle, which have very low capacity for milk production.
As improved type dairy cattle are in very short supply in the Project area,
provision would be made for procurement of cattle of the European dairy
breeds from the Asmara area and from overseas and for breeding of cross-bred
dairy cattle.
3.05      Dairy Cattle Importation.  In its application for finance for the
Project, the IEG proposed importation of about 3,800 pregnant heifers about
two years old and 200 bulls from Kenya at an estimated laaded cost of US$400
equivalent each. However, financial projections indicate that, in the case
of the medium size farms, purchase of weaner heifers, aged 6-10 months, is
likely to give better returns than purchase of pregnant heifers (Annex 3).
This system would have the added advantage of enabling farmers to gain
experience in handling exotic cattle before they come into milk. In the case
of pregnant heifers, purchase from Kenya would be much cheaper than from
alternative more distant sources. With weaner heifers, the advantage is much
less, largely because freight is a much smaller component of total landed
cost. However, Kenya may be unable to supply sufficient numbers. Herd models
and financial projections are therefore based on purchase of weaner heifers
at US$240 equivalent, which is considered adequate to cover the price that
may have to be paid to obtain them from Western European countries. DDA
would take over from the Ministry of Agriculture the Shola Dairy Farm and
use it for holding imported dairy cattle for about one month to enable them
to become acclimatized before being transferred to individual farmers.
3.06      Dairy Cattle Breeding.  To ensure a supply of cross-bred dairy
heifers, provision would be made to undertake cross-breeding between
Friesian bulls and native cows on six private ranches and one Government
ranch. For this purpose, the Abernossa ranch, owned by the Ministry of Agri-
culture, would be transferred on lease to DDA for eight years from the start
of the Project. Friesian bulls have already been introduced to the Abernossa
herd for mating with Borana cows (Annex 4). The herd and financial projec-
tions and investment schedule for a model cross-breeding ranch are given
in Annex 5. Cross-bred heifers from these sources would not be available
for sale to participating small farmers until the fourth year of the Project.
DDA would also take over from the Ministry of Agriculture its dairy stud farm
at Hlolleta and increase the production of Friesian stud bulls for sale to
dairy farners (Annex 6).
3.07      Medium Size Farms.  The average farm in this category would be de-
veloped to maintain 40 milking cows of a European dairy breed. Thirty weaner
heifers would be purchased in year 1 and 20 in year 2. In the herd projec-
tions, fairly liberal estimates of wastage from mortality and culling have
been made because of the initial inexperience of farmers in handling improved
type dairy cattle. In addition, investments would be made for fencing,



-8-
quarters for employees, dairy buildings, water facilities, dairy and other
equipment and for fodder and pasture production (Annex 7). It is expected
that sub-loans will be made to approximately 10 existing and 100 new farmers
in this category.
3.08      Small Farms.  For the small farms, native cows would be replaced
by cross-bred dairy heifers through purchase and by mating native cows to
Friesian bulls by artificial insemination. From either of these sour.ces,
cross-bred heifers would not come into milk production until the fourth
year of the Project. Investments on small farms would be for purchase of
heifers and for fencing, dairy buildings, water facilities, dairy and other
equipment. Herd and financial projections for a model of a small farm are
given in Annex 8. The small farms to be assisted are in existence now.
3.09      Projections for both categories of farms are based on a feeding
system involving heavy use of concentrates for milk production and for rear-
ing heifers. There is a good supply of fodders such as wheat bran and pro-
tein-rich oilseed cakes, which are used for compounding concentrate rations
for dairy cattle. At the existing price, equivalent to US$0.06 per kg, this
system of feeding for milk production is profitable. In the long torir, it
may be feasible to change over to a lower cost system of milk production
based largely on home-grown fodders, including improved pastures, foder
crops and grain crops. The eanvironment and soils are suitable for this
type of production but further field studies are needed to determine suit-
able local techniques for pasture and fodder production.
Milk Collection and Processiug Facilities
3.10      At present there are 32 centers for collection and tranp*rt of
milk to the processing plant at. Shola operated by DDA. The Project would
provide for establishment of 16 new milk collection centers and replacement
of eight temporary ones. The exiating facilities of the Shola Dairy Plant
were constructed with the assistance of and under supervision of UNI=EF.
Proposals for purchase and installation of additional equipment to izcreae,
milk processing capacity of the plant from 3Q,000 liters to 5O,000 liters
per day have been drawn up in consultation with the UNICI;F BegitoXul (tice
for East Africa. Finance for these additios would be included in the
Project. Details and estimated costs are given in Annex 9. inQ contracts
under this category would be awarded without the certification of an apropm-
riate UNICEF representative that they are in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practices. Assurances to this eff-ect were obtained durtug negotiations.
Technical Services
3.11      A Production Division would be estalhished within DDA, with
responsibilities for providing technical services to participating farmers.
These would include farm plan preparation and supervision, advisory services
on dairy cattle husbandry, disease contrcl services and an artificial insemi-
nation (A.I.) service. Provision would alan be made for construction of
extra accommodation at the Holleta Dairy Stud Farm to enable DDA to con-
duct short training courses for dairy farmers and dairy farm managers.



Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above services
would be provided, during the life of the sub-loans to the farmers.
3.12      Because of the presence of serious infectious diseases and of
cattle ticks and several serious tick-borne diseases (para 2.15), a high
level of veterinary services would be provided to ensure that adequate dis-
ease control measures would be enforced. As the Veterinary Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture is inadequately staffed to provide the required
level of service, personnel would be employed under the Project for this
purpose. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that cattle on par-
ticipating farms would be vaccinated at agreed intervals against rinder-
pest, foot-and-mouth disease and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia and that
satisfactory procedures for control of cattle ticks and tick-borne diseases
would be enforced, during the life of the sub-loans to the farmers.
3.13      In the long term, the best and cheapest method of providing a
supply of improved dairy cattle will be by grading up native cows by mating
to bulls of European dairy breeds. To this end, an A.I. service would be
provided by the Production Division of DDA for participating dairy farmers
at a fee. For small dairy farmers, A.I. would be much more economical than
maintaining a bull. It would also have the advantage of reducing the level
of infertility in dairy herds due to infectious diseases. Semen for use in
the A.I. service could be imported at low cost (about US$0.40 per dose) and
local technicians could be trained as inseminators.
3.14      The Agricultural Research Institute, financed by a UNDP/SF Project,
has done some research work on production of improved pastures and fodders
for cattle at its field station at Holleta. An amount of US$100,000 would
be provided under the Project to carry out field studies and establish
demonstration plots of improved pastures and legumes within the Project
area. It is proposed that a program of work in this field be organized by
Government in consultation with DDA and the Agricultural Research Institute.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that approval would be obtained
from IDA before funds allocated for this purpose were committed. An amount
of US$30,000 equivalent would be included, as part of the technical services
costs, for employment of consultants to advise DDA on milk processing and
marketing.
3.15      The Bank Group livestock review and identification mission (paragraph
1.03) identified six potentially bankable sub-projects, which could possibly
be incorporated into one or more comprehensive livestock development proj-
ects.   Based on its recommendations, an amount of US$350,000 equivalent
would be included in this Credit to finance feasibility studies and prepara-
tion of future projects. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would obtain IDA approval on the consultant firms and the
individual consultants to be engaged for these studies and on the terms and
conditions of their engagement.



- 10 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.16      Total Project cost is estimated at approximately US$6.5 million
equivalent. This includes incremental working capital requirements during
the disbursement phase, but excludes the value of existing assets to be taken
over from the government by DDA. The estimates are based on prevailing
prices in Ethiopia. A contingency allowance has been included in each
category. In the case of imported livestock this is based solely on.an
allowance for possible price increase. For a8l other catego-ries, contin-
gency allowance is based on possible increases in both price and physical
inputs. In view of the relative price stability in Ethiopia in recent
years there appears to be no reason to allow for higher price contingency
on locally procured goods than on imported goods. The foreign exchange
component is approximately US$3.4 million equivalent, or 53% of total
Project cost (Annex 10).
3.17      Technical services and administrative costs at US$1.8.million
represent nearly one-third of total Project cost. Because of the pioneer-
ing nature of this Project, a high level of technical., veterinary and A.I.
services would be required. These services would be applicable in the
future to a much larger development of dairylng in the Project area and in
other parts of Ethiopia.  In addition, the establishment of, DDA a.a8 new
entity to execute the Project necessitates meeting,fairly heavy costs for
administration. The major categories of Project cost are shown below:






- 11 -
Total Project Cost
E$ 1000        US$ '000 Equivalent  z /I    12
CategOrc LOCal Foreign Total Local Foreiln TOtal TPC  FEC
On-Farm Investment
Livestock               1,535  2,395  3,930   614    958  1,572   25   61
Other                   1 715  1 475  3 190   686    590  1,276   20   45
Sub-total             T3Y     37   7        1,300  1,548  2,848 ZE 5 4
New Investment in
Shola D5airy Plant
Buildings & Equipment    254    337    590   101    135    236    4   56
Vehicles                   47    111    158    19       44      63    1   70
Sub-total               40748 48T                    1 79    299    5   59
Technical Services &
Administrative Costs        2,020  2,595  4,615   808  1,038  1,846   29   56
Feasibility Studies           250    875  1,125   100    350    450    5   85
Total Investment Cost       5,821  7,788 13,609 2,328  3,115  5,443   83   57
Incremental Working
CaPita1                     1,191    -    1,191   477    -        477    8
Contingencies
Price                      397    502    899   159    201    360    5   56
Physical                   243    263    503    97    104    201    4   52
Sub-total               640    765  1,402   256    305    561    9   54
Total Project Cost          7,652  8,553 16,205 3,061  3,420  6,481  100   53
Existing Assets Taken Over
Shola Dairy Farm            95    -        95    42    -        42    -    -
Shola Dairy Plant         919    -        919   368    -       368    -    -
Holleta Dairy Stud
Farm                    350    -       350   140    -        140    -    -
Sub-total             1,364    -    1,364   550    -         550    -    -
/1   Total Project Cost.
7E   Foreign Exchange Component.
D. Proposed Financing
3.18      The estimated Project cost would be financed as follows:



- 12 -
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Farmers   DDA    AIDB   Government        IDA       Total
Category               Amount  Amount Amount    Amount    Amount   %   Amount
On-Farm Investment
Private Farms      400      -        -         44      2,333    84   2,777
DDA Farms           -        12      -         -          59    83       71
Sub-total         400 __9           -       --a       2,392    83   2,848
Shola Dalry Plant        -        59      -         -          240    80      299
Technical Services &
Administrative Costs    -        808      -         -        1,038    56   1,846
Feasibility Studies      -        -       -        100         350    77     450
Incremental Working
Capital                  38       -      439        -           -      -     477
Contingencies            48       89      44                   380           561
Total Project Cost      490      968     527       144      4,400    68   6,481
% of Total Project Cost  8        15       7         2          68           100
Existing Assets
Taken Over              -        -       -        550          -      -     550
3.19      The proposed IDA Credit of US$4.4 million equivalent would finance
68% of total Project cost. US$3.4 million, or 77% of the Credit, would
finance foreign exchange costs while US$1.0 million or 23% would finance
local currency expenditure. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that funds would be provided to DDA either through the banking system or
from the Government's own budget to enable it to meet its own working capi-
tal requirements. The IDA Credit would meet the estimated foreign exchange
compontant of the cost of the consultant services to carry out the feasibility
studies in relation to proposed future livestock development projects.
E. Procurement
3.20       All purchases of dairy cattle to be financed by the Credit would be
subject to the approval of the Production Manager of DDA. Purchases of dairy
cattle from outside Ethiopia for Project purposes would be organized and ef-
fected by DDA to fulfill firm orders by farmers taking into account price
quotations from potential suppliers in at least three different countries as
well as production standards and suitability for Ethiopian conditions. All
importations would be subject to veterinary requirements laid down by the
Director of the Veterinary Services of the IEG. In particular, all cattle
would be certified free from East Coast Fever and vaccinated against foot-and-
mouth disease (Types A, 0 and C), rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuro-
pneumonia within the three months preceding arrival in Ethiopia.  Assurances



- 13 -
were obtained during negotiations that procurement and importation of cattle
would be carried out in accordance with the above conditions.
3.21      Any contract estimated to cost over US$20,000 equivalent for pur-
chase and installation of equipment for Shola Dairy Plant and for purchase
of vehicles by DDA would be subject to international competitive bidding.
Goods and services required for on-farm development would be obtained by
farmers through existing commercial channels, where they are readily avail-
able and where there is adequate competition. Other expenditures by DDA,
except for reimbursements of staff, would be made in accordance with pro-
cedures to ensure a satisfactory degree of local competition. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that procurement of goods and services
would be carried out in accordance with these conditions.
F. Disbursement
3.22      The Credit would be used to finance:
(a) 100% of long-term sub-loans to farmers for approved Proj-
ect purposes in cases where such sub-loans do not exceed
90% of the total costs of the corresponding on-farm in-
vestments;
(b) 90% of long-term sub-loans to farmers for approved Project
purposes in cases where such sub-loans exceed 90% of the
total cost of the corresponding on-farm investment;
(c) foreign exchange component of cost of technical and admin-
istrative services of DDA and cif costs of vehicles and
other equipment imported specifically for the Project;
(d) 80% of cost of construction of milk collection centers and
milk retailing centers and other construction for Shola
Dairy Plant for approved Project purposes, and 70% of the
cost of equipment procured locally for the Project;
(e)  80% of expenditure for approved Project purposes on  farms
operated by DDA; and
(f)  foreign exchange expenditure for feasibility studies for
the proposed livestock development projects, and 70% (the
estimated foreign exchange component) of expenditure for
exploratory drilling for water for purpose of these feasi-
bility studies.
3.23      Disbursement of the Credit would be extended over six years as
shown in the following schedule:



_ 14 -
Project Year
Category                1       2      3      4       5      6       Total
----------------  US   000 -------------------
On-Farm Development      480    618    458    376    280    180        2,392
Shola Dairy Plant         82      34     34      57     16     17        240
Technical Services &
Administrative Costs  223    250    218    141    109        97      1,038
Feasibility Studies      125    125    100      -       -      -         350
Contingencies             80      93     74      60     43     30        380
Total               990  1,120    884    634    448    324       4,400
For medium size farms, commitments would be made during the first four years
of the Project and each subloan would normally be disbursed over three years.
For small farms commitment would be made during the first three years of
the Project and disbursement of individual subloans over four years. Plan-
ning of total Project expenditure and of disbursement of the Credit by
quarters are shown in Annexes 11 and 12.
G.  Organization and Mknagement
3.24      As the Project would involve fairly large-scale commercial opera-
tions, it would be appropriate for it to be administered by an autonomous
authority operating on a comercial basis. DDA has been set up for this pur-
pose. The objectives of DDA are to develop milk production and milk market-
ing in Ethiopia. It would be authorized to engage in purchase, collection,
transport, processing and marketing of milk; to operate farms producing milk
or breeding dairy cattle; and to provide technical, disease control and A.I.
services to dairy farmers.
3.25      DDA has taken over the assets of the Addis Ababa Dairy I*dustry,
namely the Shola Dairy Plant, the milk collection centers serving that plant
and the equipment used in collecting, transporting, processit&g And marketing
of milk.  It has also taken over from the Ministry of Agricultute the
Holleta Dairy Stud Farm and the Shola Dairy Farm (para 3.06).
3.26      The Board of Directors of DDA consists of the Minister for Agri-
culture or his delegate as Chairman; one representative from each of the
Ministries of Finance, Commerce, Industry and Tourism, National Community
Development and Social Affairs; one representative each from the Municipal-
ity of Addis Ababa and the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bmnk; and
one representative from the milk producers. During negotiations, it was
agreed that any changes in the charter of DDA, made without prior agreement
of IDA, which would materially and adversely affect DDA's ability to execute
ttte 1'roject, could be considered a default under the Credit Agreement.
3.27      The above organizational arrangements differ from those embodied
ill the Plan of Operations between the UNICEF and the Government under which



- 15 -
UNICEF financed the establishment of the dairy plant and the milk collec-
tion system. However, UNICEF has agreed that the new arrangements are ap-
propriate for DDA's enlarged responsibilities and UNICEF and the Government
have agreed that they will make appropriate amendments to their plan of
operations. These amendments would be a condition of effectiveness of this
credit.
3.28      The chief executive of DDA would be the General Manager.  There
would be a Production Division, under the direction of a Production Manager,
responsible for provision of on-farm technical services, farmer training,
veterinary services and an A.I. service; it would also be responsible for
drawing up development plans for individual farms, which would form the basis
for applications for subloans under the Project. The Processing and Market-
ing Division, under the direction of the Processing and Marketing Manager,
would be responsible for operation of the Shola Dairy Plant and for collec-
tion, transport, processing and marketing of milk. A Financial Manager would
be responsible for financial management of all aspects of DDA's operations.
3.29      The staffing requirement and organization chart proposed for DDA
is presented in Annex 13. A qualified and experienced Production Manager,
acceptable to IDA, would be recruited on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. IDA would also be consulted and given time to comment on the persons
to be appoinited and the terms and conditions of appointment for the posi-
tions of General Hanager, Financial Manager, Processing and Marketing Man-
ager, Chief Veterinary Officer, Artificial Insemination Specialist and
Chief Dairy Development Officer. It would be a condition of effectiveness
that appointments had been made to all of the above positions, except the
positions of Artificial Insemination Specialist and Chief Dairy Develop-
ment Officer.  In its application, the Government-stated that a number of
these positions would have to be filled by non-Ethiopians.  The question of
recruitment of non-Ethiopians was discussed with the Government during ap-
praisal and again during negotiations.  It is not expected that there will
be any difficulty in this regard.  It is likely that some could be supplied
through bilateral aid agencies. Ethiopian counterparts would be appointed
and trained to assume the duties of positions to which non-Ethiopians are
appointed. Assurances on the above points were obtained during negotiations.
3.30      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, in those cases
where non-Ethiopian& are appointed to any of the positions mentioned in para-
graph 3.29, DDA would be required to meet only the local costs of their em-
ployment. These are approximately equivalent to those which would be in-
curred if Ethiopians were employed in the same positions. The remaining
costs would be met by the Government as a grant to DDA from the proceeds of
the credit as a development cost. In order to avoid delay in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness (para 3.29), it was agreed during negotiations
that we would propose that retroactive financing be provided to enable DDA
to proceed with recruitment of the Production Manager and possibly some other
non-Ethiopian personnel. During negotiations it was also agreed that retro-
active financinig should be proposed to enable the Government to proceed with
feasibtlity studies for a second livestock development project (para 3.15)
without delay. A total amount of US$100,000 equivalent is proposed as retro-
active financing from January 1, 1971.



- 16 -
H. Lending Operations
3.31      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procedures ac-
ceptable to IDA would be established for on-lending of funds from the IDA
Credit to DDA for approved Project purposes, at an interest rate of 6-1/2%
per annum repayable over 20 years, including a grace period of six years,
except for that portion of the costs of employment of non-Ethiopian staff,
which would be provided as a grant (para 3.30). The arrangements would be
ratified in a Project Financing Agreement between the Government and DDA
before Credit effectiveness. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would provide an advance of not less than US$100,000
equivalent as initial working capital for DDA, before Credit effectiveness.
3.32      Due to the recent establishment of AIDB and the fact that it is
still in the process of evaluation of the loans acquired from its predecessor
agencies, it was decided that, at least initially, AIDB would act as an agent
of the Government in making loans to participating farmers and that project
funds would thereby be kept separate from AIDB's own accounts. the Govern-
ment would open a Project Account in the National Bank of Ethiopia into which
it would deposit quarterly in advance such amounts as are estimated to be re-
quired to enable AIDB to make disbursements on sub-loans for the quarter im-
mediately following. AIDB would deposit repayments of principal plus interest
at 6-1/2% into the Project Account. These arrangements could be modified with
the Association's approval following a satisfactory appraisal of AIDB's finan-
cial prospects, in connection with a proposed Bank Group financing of AIDB,
3.33      Applications by farmers for subloans would be received initially by
the Production Division of DDA. Technicians of this Division would visit the
farm, assess the technical feasibility of the farmer's proposal and draw up
with the farmer a farm development plan and financial projection for the per-
iod of the proposed subloan. Subloans would be made only on the recommenda-
tion of the Production Manager on the basis of a farm development plan ap-
proved by him and following a positive recommendation on creditworthiness by
a senior officer of AIDB satisfactory to IDA. AIDB would not modify the terms
and conditions of the loan proposed under the farm development plan without
the prior approval of the Production Manager. DDA would assiat AIDB in
verifying that disbursements under dairy loans are in accordance with approved
farm development plans, in providing technical and veterinary services to
participating farmers, and in collecting repayments of principal and interest
from the proceeds of milk sales.
3.34      It is expected that the operators in all of the medium size farms
and of most of the small farms would be landowners. Mortgage would be taken
on land and inmovable property as security for subloans to landowners.
Provision woultd be iaade for subloans to tenant farmers only on c*ndition that
(a) thsol ,otitaii turctios from one or more guarantors providing adequate
security for the subloans; and (b) they enter into a written long-term lease
agreement with the landowner, satisfactory to DDA.



- 17 -
3.35      Long-term subloans would be made to farmers to cover purchase of
dairy cattle; fencing; water facilities; dairy buildings; accommodation on
the farm; equipment and tools, including milking and veterinary equipment;
and fodder purchase. These subloans would be at an interest rate of 9-1/2%
per annum for a period not exceeding 14 years, including a grace period of
five years. Of each 9-1/2% interest payment received, DDA would receive 2%
as a service charge, AIDB would retain 1% and 6-1/2% would be paid to the
Government. In cases of default on sub-loans, DDA and AIDB would share equal-
ly the loss of principal and the payment of interest due to the Government.
The approval of IDA would be needed in cases where an individual subloan or
the aggregate of subloans to an individual farmer exceeds US$50,000 equiva-
lent. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that long-term subloans
would be made by DDA in accordance with these conditions and those listed in
paragraphs 3.32 and 3.33.
3.36      In some cases, participating farmers would need short-term loans
during the first five years of their development program to cover incremental
working capital requirements, as determined by the farm development plan,
arising from increased operating costs, reduced net income and interest
payments on long-term subloans. AIDB would provide short-term loans for this
purpose on a year-to-year basis. The interest rate charged to farmers would
be not more than 10-1/2% per annum.
I. Auditing
3.37      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DDA and AIDB would
maintain separate accounts in respect of the Project, that these accounts
would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within four months of the close of the fi-
nancial year.
IV. MARKETS, PRICES, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND REVENUE GENERATION
Markets
4.01      There is fairly strong evidence that the Addis Ababa market is
under-supplied with milk and that demand is growing rapidly. Output of
milk by AADI increased from 288,000 liters in 1961 to 3,070,000 liters in
1969 and it has been marketed without difficulty. In fact, AADI had to main-
tain a system of rationing of sales through its 41 retail centers, which sell
milk only from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. daily (Annex 14).
4.02      Daily milk sales of the order of 13,000 to 25,000 liters, represent
a very low per capita intake for a population of approximately 685,000 in the
city. However, the percentage of the population with sufficient income to
purchase whole milk is very small. The foreign population of 45,000 accounts
for a very large proportion of sales. Average per capita consumption in Addis



- 18 -
Ababa is only about 10% of the consumption level of Nairobi and about 20%
of the level of Asmara.
4.03      A feature of the present milk supply situation is the marked
seasonal fluctuation in production.  During the uionths preceding the wet
season -- February to May -- intake at the sShola Dairy Plant is about 25% be-
low average while it is about 25% above average during the flush mqpths of
September to December. If productioln were maintained throughout th, year at
the level of the flush months, overall consumption could be incre^a,d by about
35%. One of the objectives of technical services to farmers would be to im-
prove feeding and management standards and thus reduce seasonal fluctuations.
4.04      A study by the University of Addis Ababa indicated an iiCQgo  elas-
ticity of demand of at least 1.0 for milk in the city. With population
growth of 6.2% per year and growth of per capita income at loeat at the
national level of 2%, demand for milk can be expected to grow by at le4st
6.i% annually.  Taking a conservative estimate of demand at 25,OOQ liters
per day, an amount marketed without difficulty in the flusb  #S#Q; qf 1969,
demand by 1980 would exceed 59,000 liters daily. Thus, the eptiiated in-
creased supply of 31,000 liters as a result of Project investments would not
exceed the increase in demand due solely to population and income growth.
4.05      In 1967, imports of milk powdgr into Ethiopia were 2,000 tons,
equivalent to an average supply of 55,000 liters per day of reconstituted
milk. At existing retail prices in Addis Ababa, its price is equivalent
to US$0.22 to US$0.48 per liter. A large proportion of this milk powder
is purchased by the higher income residents of Addis Ababa bec4use they
are unable to obtain a regular supply of good quality pasteurized milk.
Prices
4.06      Until late in 1970, AADI paid E$ 0.25 (US$0.10 equivalent) per liter
to small farmers delivering milk to collecting centers and E$ 0.28 or E$ 0.30
(US$0.11 or US$0.12 equivalenit) per liter to large farmers, depending q4 their
distance from Shola. It sold milk through its retail centers at 9$ 0.40
(US$0.16 equivalent) per liter. Of the total milk sales by DDA, proq1ly a
third or more is purchased by retailers or owners of bars whq resell it at
considerably higher prices.  As DDA gives first priority to qg4lig tbro-gh
its own retail centers, it is not able to supply regularly tp superrkets,
other large retailers, hotels and hpspitals, which therefore qhtain their sup-
plies direct from large cowmercial farmers at a price of E$ 0.45 (US$0.18
equivalent) per liter.
4.07      In the last quarter of 1970, AADI raised its retail selling pric,e
to E$0.50 (US$0.20 equivalent) per liter. This has enabled it to Qffer ac
average price of about E$U.33 (US$0.13 equivalent) per liter to suppliers.
Thuh slhould attract more of the commercial producers to supply milk to the
Slio4a Dalry Plant.  With increasing supplies, DDA would be able to supply
ow milk regularly to lhigher priced m.kts such as supermarkets and hotels.
It would also be able to offer a premiu price for quality milk suitable
for thlese higher priced markets. Assuragces were obtained during negotia-



- 19 -
tions that DDA would adopt pricing policies that would enable it to operate
profitably and also offer satisfactory prices to farmers.
4.08      Financial projections for farmers, Shola Dairy Plant and DDA have
been based on retail prices equivalent to US$0.20 per liter from years 1 to
6, US$0.18 per liter from years 7 to 10 and US$0.16 per liter thereafter.
Producer Benefits
4.09      Farmers participating in the Project would derive substantial
increases in income as shown below:
Before           Development Year
Development          6           13
Medium Size Dairy Farm
No. Milking Cows: Native                    17               -           -
Improved                  -              39          39
Production of milk, Liters               8,100          88,400     103,400
Cash Balance after Debt Service, US$       432          3,054        5,844
Small Dairy Farm
No. Milking Cows: Native                     4               -           -
Improved                  -               7          10
Production of Milk, Liters               1,900           8,500      17,800
Cash Balance after Debt Service, US$       156             396         883
Cross-Breeding Ranch
Herd Size (Animal Units)                   231             554         558
Cross-Bred Heifers Sold                      -              54          54
Cash Balance after Debt Service, US$       932           1,274       9,065
4.10      Financial rates of return are estimated at about 20% for the model
of the medium size dairy farm, about 21% for the small dairy farm and about 17%
for the cross-breeding ranch at retail milk prices as stated in paragraph
4.08 (Annex 15). If a retail milk price of E$0.40 per liter is assumed
throughout, financial rates of return are reduced to about 15% for the large
dairy farm and about 19% for the small dairy farm.
Revenue Generation
4.11      Farmers would pay interest and repay their subloans out of revenue
over a period of 14 years. The incremental cash balance after debt service
would be positive for the medium size farm and the cross-breeding ranch from
year 5 and for the small farm from year 4. By year 14, the aggregate
incremental cash balance after debt service of farmers would be approximately
US$0.5 million equivalent, rising to over US$0.8 million by year 17. At
existing rates, income tax on small farmers would be negligible and the
highest rate paid by other farmers on their projected income would be 15%.
Thus, most of the extra income would be retained by farmers. It is expected
that there would be considerable scope for further development of dairy
production to supply the growing demand of the Addis Ababa market and it is



- 20 -
likely that farmers would reinvest most of the extra income generated by the
Project to further increase their production.
4.12      DDA would have a positive cash balance after debt service.  The
cumulative cash balance to year 10 is estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent
and from year 15 onwards the annual cash balance would be US$0.4 million
equivalent. DDA would thus be established as a viable corporation that could
contribute to financing of future investments in infrastructure for further
development of the dairy industry.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      On-farm development under the Project is expected to increase
average daily milk supply through Shola Dairy Plant by approximately 19,000
liters by year 5 and 31,000 liters by year 10. In addition, it is expected
that improvement to Shola Dairy Plant and the organization of milk collec-
tion and marketing by DDA would stimulate further increased supplies to
the Plant. Although milk price would rise over the next six years -- as it
would do in any case without the Project -- development of production under
the Project would lead to reduction of retail price to the equivalent of
US$0.16 per liter, which is slightly lower than the retail price in most
West European countries and in Nairobi and considerably lower than the re-
tail price in other African cities.
5.02      The Project would establish, in the Addis Ababa area, a population
of about 7,000 cows and heifers of improved dairy breeds. This would ?ro-
vide a supply of dairy type heifers for further expansion of dairy production
around Addis Ababa and in other parts of Ethiopia. It would eliminate the
need for any further importations of dairy cattle on a large scale.
5.03      The rate of return to the economy of the Project is estimated at
approximately 12%, at a retail milk price of E$0.40 (US$0.16) per liter.
At a retail milk price of US$0.18 per liter, economic rate of return would be
approximately 16%. These rates of return are based on a price of US$240 for
weaner heifers, which is the estimated price at which they could be procured
from Europe. If obtained from Kenya, they could almost certainly be delivered
at lower cost, with consequent increase in the economic rate of return.
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(a)  ensure that funds would be provided to DDA, either through
the banking system or through the Government's own budget,



- 21 -
to enable DDA to meet its own working capital requirements
(para 3.19);
(b)  establish satisfactory procedures for makiag nvailable funds
from the Credit to DDA and AIDB for approved Project purposes
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (paras 3.31 and
3.32); and
(c)  employ consultants acceptable to IDA, on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA, to carry out feasibility studies
in relation to preparation of a future comprehensive live-
stock development project (para 3.15).
6.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that DDA would:
(a)  prior to award of contracts for purchase and installation of
equipment for Shola Dairy Plant, obtain the certification
of an appropriate representative of UNICEF that such con-
tracts were in accordance with sound engineering practices
(para 3.10);
(b)  provide technical, veterinary and artificial insemination
services of a satisfactory standard to participating farmers
during the life of sub-loans to farmers (para 3.11);
(c)  ensure that all cattle on participating farms are
vaccinated against rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease
and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia at intervals de-
termined by the Chief Veterinary Officer of DDA and
that procedures laid down by the Chief Veterinary Officer
are enforced for control of cattle ticks and tick-borne
diseases on participating farms during the life of sub-
loans to farmers (para 3.12);
(d)  obtain IDA approval before commitment of any funds from
the Credit for carrying out field studies or establishing
demonstration plots (para 3.14);
(e)  undertake procurement and/or importation of cattle and
procurement of goods and services for Project purposes
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (paras 3.20
and 3.21);
(f)  recruit a qualified and experienced Production Manager,
acceptable to IDA, on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA; and consult IDA and give IDA time to comment on
the persons to be appointed and terms and conditions of
appointments for the positions of General Manager, Fi-
nancial Manager, Processing and Marketing Manager, Chief



- 22 -
Veterinary Officer, Artificial Insemination Specialist
and Chief Dairy Development Officer (para 3.29);
(g) in cases where non-Ethiopians are appointed to any of the
positions mentioned in paragraph 3.29, appoint suitably
qualified Ethiopians as counterparts to be trained to
assume the duties of the relevant positions (para 3.30); and
(h) adopt pricing policies for the purchase and sale of milk
and related products which provide adequate incentives for
milk production and which allow DDA to operate profitably
(para 4.07).
6.03      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that AIDB would:
(a) make long-term loans to farmers for on-farm development on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras 3.32 and
3.34);
(b) make short-term loans to participating farmers to cover
reasonable requirements of incremental working capital as
determined by the farm development plan, on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.35); and
(c) employ a senior officer to supervise its lending operations
under the Project whose qualifications and experience were
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.33).
6.04      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit
in addition to the customary conditions:
(a) the General Manager, Production Manager, Financial Manager,
Processing and Marketing Manager and Chief Veterinary Officer
had been appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
(para 3.29);
(b)  the Government had provided DDA with initial working capital
in an amount of not less than US$100,000 equivaleat on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.31);
(c) The Government and UNICEF had amended their Plan of Opera-
tions so as to be consistent with the Project (para 3.27);
and
(d)  the senior officer of AIDB for supervision of lending opera-
tlons under the Project had been appointed.
6.05      The Project is considered suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.4 mil-
lion. The Imperial Ethiopian Government would be the borrower and would
carry the foreign exchange risk.
May 28, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Cattle Husbandry and Disease Control
1.        Of Ethiopia's cattle population of about 26 million, less than
10,000 are European-type dairy cattle, mostly Friesian. While native cattle
are widely used for milk production for home consumption, Asmara and Addis
Ababa are the only areas in which there are commercial dairy farms on a signi-
ficant scale.
The Dairy Herd
2.        There are about 25 herds, with about 3,500 upgraded dairy cows in
the relatively dry Asmara area. All these herds are housed and stall-fed.
Operating costs are high and farmers are paid E$0.37 (US$0.15) per liter c.f
milk. All milk is consumed in Asmara with the exception of the output of one
dairy farm with 850 cows, which sells sterilized milk to other cities. An
artificial insemination scheme commenced in the area in October 1969 and
Asmara represents a potential source of dairy heifers for the Project (Annex 3).
3.        In the Addis Ababa area, dairy farming has developed rapidly
during the last decade following the installation of milk collecting
centers and Shola Dairy Plant. At present about 40 commercial dairy farms,
with 10 to 250 cows each, have a total of about 2,000 dairy-type cows, mainly
upgraded Friesians. Holleta and Shola dairy farms are owned by the Govern-
ment and have herds of 60 to 70 Friesian cows, respectively, originating
from Kenya. Cows are usually housed and investments in cow sheds and accommo-
dation are necessarily high. Labor requirements are estimated at one worker
for five cows. Feeding consists of low quality hay and a fairly high ration
of concentrate feed, mainly wheat bran. Green-fodder feeding is practically
unknown and grazing is, as yet, of limited importance. However, excellent
conditions exist for cultivation of fodder crops and for establishment of
high yielding grassland.
4.        Data collected from 12 commercial dairy farms indicate that in
herds comprising mainly F and F Friesian x Zebu cattle, milk production
is in the range of 1,400 to 1,808 liters per lactation, while it is in the
2,500--to 3,000-liter range in two larger commercial dairy herds and in
the two Government farms, which have virtually pure Friesian cattle. The
calving rate at 60% to 70% is low.
5.        About 1,250 small farms supply milk from native cows to the milk
collecting centers. Nutrition of these cows depends exclusively on pas-
tures, which is reflected in a sharp drop in milk production in the dry



ANNEX 1
Page 2
season. During the night, cattle are kept in corrals beside the farmers'
huts, and milk sold per cow per year is estimated at 100 to 500 liters.
The Environment
6,        Farmers in the Project area are good herdsmen but they appear to
have little knowledge of dairy farming.
7.        The Project area is at an elevation of 2,200 to 2,500 m above
sea level. Climate is temperate, frost is an exception and European-type
dairy cattle do well under these conditions. Average rainfall at Addis
Ababa is 1,070 mm per year, with a six-month dry season from October to
March and, in most years, a short dry season in May to early June. Topo-
graphy is undulating with numerous small water courses and mostly heavy
grey black soils in valleys and red loams on hills.
8.        Existing unimproved pastures provide on average about 2 tows per
year of mediocre quality hay, with 6% to 8% crude protein content and 2 to
3 tons of green fodder for grazing. Very little experimental work has been
done on pasture improvement. However, preliminary trials carried out at
Holleta under the UNDP/SF Agricultural Research project indicate that pro-
ductive rye grass-white clover pastures can be established. Crops such
as oats, vetches, oats and vetches, oats and broad beans, cow pe8as, rape,
fodder sorghum, green maize, berseem and Persian clover can also be grown
successfully. Under irrigation, highly productive stands of alfalfa could
supply green fodder during the whole year. Trials carried out in the
Chilalu Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) Project indicate that a wide
range of improved grasses and legumes from both tropical and temperate
environments can be grown in the area of that project, where the environ-
ment is similar to that of the region around Addis Ababa.
Some Technical Aspects for Dairy Farm Development
9.        Fodder Production and Feeding.  While there are excellent pros-
pects for dairying based on grass and forage, feeding for the immediate
future would have to rely heavily on concentrate feed. There is at present
a plentiful supply of cheap oilseed cake (principally nug cake) and milling
by-products such as wheat bran. CADU produces a concentrate mixture of
equal parts of aug cake and wheat bran plus bone meal and salt at E$7
(US$2.8 equivalent) per 100 kg. Project farmers would be able to buy a
more balanced concentrate at a price of E$15 per 100 kg from a feed mixing
plant being established by the Livestock and Meat Authority. At a milk
price to the farmer of E$0.33 (US$0.13 equivalent) per liter, delivered
to the collection center, the milk-to-feed-price ratio is very favorable
for milk production.
10.       For the future, greater emphasis should be given to the develop-
ment and utilization of grasslands for dairying as this will undoubtedly
lead to lower cost milk production. As a first step, fencing of Project
farms to protect them from grazing by stray cattle and other livestock



ANNEX 1
Page 3
will increase available pasture for the farmer's own cattle. Field trials
and demonstrations proposed under the Project would have the objective of
determining suitable mixtures and methods of pasture and fodder crop pro-
duction as well as methods for their management and utilization, e.g.,
stocking rates, fertilizer application, and hay and silage making. For
the immediate future, it is anticipated that most large farmers will estab-
lish small areas (about 1 ha) of alfalfa under irrigation for hay and green
fodder as well as grow more fodder crops without irrigation.
11.       Calf Rearing.  In the initial years it is expected that most far-
mers will rear calves by suckling, but as they attain more skills in dairy hus-
bandry they could change over to bucket rearing. Friesian-type dairy
heifers would require about 400 liters of whole milk and 1,400 kg of con-
centrates from birth to calving at about 28 to 30 months of age. Require-
ments for cross-bred heifers would only be about two-thirds of this amount.
12.       Housing.  Housing provided on most commercial dairy farms in the
Addis Ababa and Asmara areas now is more elaborate than is needed, compris-
ing completely enclosed barns with individual stalls in which all cattle are
tethered and fed. Under the Project, a cheaper system of housing would be
used, involving barns with loose box stalls and an attached open area
where cattle would be fed and watered. Farmers would be encouraged to
graze their herds, at least during the day. Allowance in the Project is
made for one man to handle 10 cows.
13,       Training.  Short training courses would be provided for future
dairy farmers at Holleta Training Center. These courses would include
practical training in milking and hygenic milk production, management of
dairy cattle and pastures, production of alfalfa and other fodder crops
and fodder conservation.
Cattle Diseases
14.       Although a number of the major infections and tick-borne diseases
occur in Ethiopia, they can be controlled by vaccination or other means.
The following is a brief summary of the position with regard to the major
diseases of cattle:
Rinderpest - This disease is endemic throughout Ethiopia but
it can be controlled by vaccination. Tissue culture vaccine
confers a solid immunity that lasts for a number of years.
Foot-and-Mouth Disease - Types A, 0 and C occur in Ethiopia,
and vaccination twice yearly with a tri-valent vaccine is
needed for control.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Contagious Bovine Pleuopneuumonia (CBPP) - This disease is
endemic tihrouglhout Africa. It is not as infectious as the
above two diseases. Losses caused by epidemics of CBPP are
much lower than in those caused by rinderpest. In Ethiopia,
KH3J vaccine i8 used against this disease because it pOtduces
only a mild reaction in vaccinated animals. As it cornfers an
immunity that lasts omly for six months, vaccination must be
carried out twice a year.
haemmorhagic Septicaemia, Anthrax and Blackleg - These diseusta
occur sporadically but they can be controlled by vaccination.
Tick-Borne Diseases - The most serious of the tick-bofne
diseases, East Coast Fever, does not occur in the Addis
Ababa area even though Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, the
tick which transmits it, is present. Any cattle to be
introduced to the region, either from Kenya or other parts
of Ethiopia, should be certified as being free froxi expo-
sure to this disease for a period of at least two years.
Iieartwater, a bacterial disease transmitted by the tick,
Anbylomma hebraeum, occurs in the Project area. It can be
controlled in cattle at pasture by spraying or dipping
once weekly to control ticks. Where cattle are housed
permanently, control of tick infestation presents very
little problem. The common tick fevers, babesiosis and
anaplasmosis, also occur. Control of babesiosis presents
very little problem. Although there is no effective pro-
phylaxis or treatment for anaplasmosis, it is unlikely to
cause serious losses.
Internal Parasites - Liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica, is a
serious problem in grazed cattle in some parts of the
district. It can be controlled by draining or treating
swampy areas that harbor the intermediate host, which is
a snail. Worm parasites are also a problem in grazed
cattle.  They can be controlled by a program of anthelmin-
thic treatment and rotational grazing. In cattle that atr
housed and hand-fed, internal parasites will not prebeht
a problem.
Infertility - The three major infectious diseases associated
with infertility, brucellosis, vibriosis and trichoftibabiS,
are almost certainly present in the Project area. Bruieellosis
can be controlled by vaccination of all heifer calves. The
effects of the other two diseases can be reduced to negligible
proportions if an efficient artifiCial insemination service is
available to dairy farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Mastitis - While sporadic cases of mastitis will almost
certainly occur, its effects will probably be less serious
than in more highly developed dairy industries for two
reasons: first, cows would not be fed or managed to attain
extremely high levels of production, which predispose cows
to mastitis; second, cows would be milked by hand rather
than by machines, with each milker handling only eight or
ten cows.
15.       The effective control of all of these disease conditions will be
essential to the success of the Project. As far ag the individual farmer
is concerned, failure to control diseases would lead to almost certain
financial failure. Measures to control all these diseases are known but
it is essential that the Project make provision for its own veterninary
service to the farmers. The existing veterinary service of the Ministry
of Agriculture would be inadequate for the increased needs of the Project.
One veterinarian should be employed within DDA to concentrate solely on
disease control. He would have under his supervision about 12 veterinary
assistants. Because of shortage of Ethiopian veterinaries, it would be
necessary to engage an expatriate veterinarian at least for the first two
years. He should have had veterinary experience in East Africa.
Artificial Insemination (A.I.)
16.       Development of an efficient artificial insemination service is
important to the success of the Project for a number of reasons. For the
small farmers, it would be completely uneconomic to purchase and maintain
a bull of a breed such as Friesian. A system of joint ownership of a bull
by a number of small farmers would certainly lead to spread of disease,
such as vibrisosis or trichomoniasis, with consequent infertility. Simi-
larly in large herds, the use of A.I. is more or less essential to the con-
trol of these disease conditions. Provision of an A.I. service would give
farmers access to service from proven bulls, which would be of much higher
genetic standard than the bulls they could afford to purchase.
17.       It is proposed that a veterinarian specializing in A.I. be em-
ployed within DDA for the first two years of the Project. He would have
to undertake the training of inseminaters and the organization and estab-
lishment of the A.I. service in the Project area. During this two-year
period, he would be expected to train an Ethiopian counterpart to take
over responsibility of the A.I. service.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Institutions and Agricultural Credit
1.        The State Bank of Ethiopia, created by Imperial Charter in 1942
soon after the cessation of military operations in the country, carried out
the dual functions of central and commercial banking till the end of 1963.
At that time, by Proclamation No. 206 for regulating the banking and monetary
system in Ethiopia, it was wound up and replaced by two new institutions,
namely, the National Bank of Ethiopia, which would function as the central
bank of the country, and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, which would take
over all banking business with the public previously carried out by the
State Bank of Ethiopia except credit mortgage activities. These were
transferred to the Mortgage Company of Ethiopia, a fully owned subsidiary
of the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. The National Bank of Ethi.opia exercises
powers for licensing and inspection of commercial banks. It imposes the
requirements for maintenance of reserve balances and liquidity ratios and
a ceiling on interest rates on deposits accepted by the banks. It also
offers rediscount facilities to banks for eligible paper covering export of
goods at 5% per annum and all other eligible paper at 5-1/2% per annum. No
banking institution in Ethiopia has so far availed itself of the facilities
for rediscounting agricultural paper.
Banking Institutions in Ethiopia
2.        The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE).  Incorporated as a fully
Government-owned share company under the Commercial Code, the Commercial
Bank of Ethiopia has a paid-up share capital of E$30 million and reserves
amounting to E$11 million. Its deposits amount to nearly E$300 million and
it has a loan portfolio of E$228 million. Of the total loans, E$90 million
is for financing exports and imports; E$48 million for financing domestic
trade, including movement of agricultural produce; E$43.8 million for financ-
ing industrial activities; E$22.4 million for financing agricultural produc-
tion; and E$22.8 million for financing building construction and other miscel-
laneous activities. The Bank's advances for agricultural production are
mainly to large firms undertaking sugar cane and cotton farming.
3.        The net profits of the Bank for 1968 amounted to E$6.17 million
and it has maintained for some years now a dividend of 7% on its share
capital. The bank had 70 branch offices at the end of 1969 and a total staff
of 1,292, 66 of which belonged to the managerial and senior supervisory
category. The bank organizes advanced management services and training
programs for its staff at all levels. Supervisory staff are periodically
sent abroad for specialized training in banking and management. The bank
proposes to set up an Agricultural Credit Division very shortly.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Loans are sanctioned after obtaining full financial details of the
borrower and an appraisal of the project. Loan committees have been set up
at branch offices and at the head office to sanction loans. Small loans up
to E$20,000 could be sanctioned by a Loan Committee headed by the Credit
Manager and loans above this amount by a Loan Committee headed by the General
Manager; loans exceeding E$1 million need to be referred to the Board of the
Bank. The bank ordinarily restricts loans to 50% of the value of the security
but this could be relaxed when guarantees are provided. The interest rates
vary from 7-1/2% to 9-1/2%, depending on the type of loan or advance. The
bank does not generally advance medium- or long-term loans but could do so
if reimbursement facilities were provided.
5.        The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB).  AIDB was
established in November 1970 as a state-owned share company, with a nominal
equity of E$50,000 and taking over most of the assets and liabilities of the
..vw-Jefunct Dcvelopment Bank of Ethiopia (DBE) and Ethiopian Investment Cor-
poration (EIC). Recent operations of these predecessor institutions are
described further below because, with the formation of AIDB so recent, it is
not yet possible to review AIDB's own lending program. Neither of these
institutions was in a strong financial position prior to its dissolution.
Arrangements have been made for the International Executive Service Corporation,
New York, to provide AIDB with a senior adviser for a period of three months
to make an assessment of certain assets and liabilities taken over from DBE;
to assess and advise on financing and management problems facing some of the
companies in which AIDB has now assumed an interest (mainly from EIC) and
to advise on proper management arrangements for AIDB itself.
6.        Apart from its normal operating income, arrangements have been
made for AIDB to receive, for the next five years, half of the profits of
the National Bank of Ethiopia, which would otherwise have gone to the Minis-
try of Finance. Hlowever, AIDB's present financial situation and prospects
are unclear and it is too early to complete a meaningful appraisal. No
balance sheet is available.
7.        The Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE).   The Development bank
of Ethiopia was established in May 151 by a Charter. It was a state-owned
institution with a paid-up share capital of E$11 million and a reserve for
bad and doubtful debts of E$3.28 million. Apart from this, the resources
of DBE consisted of loans received from USAID, IBRD and the West German
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the amount outstanding on December 31, 1969
was E$6.476 million. The bank also received funds from the Ministry of
Finance, the amount outstanding on December 31, 1969 being E$1.541 million.
The bank did not offer deposit facilities.
8.        From its inception, 42% of the loans advanced were for agricul-
ture and 52% for industry. Of the agricultural loans, 68% was for periods
of one to five years, 30% for periods exceeding five years, and 2% for
periods of less than a year. No short-term agricultural loans were granted
in recent years.



AiINEX 2
Page 3
9.        The total loans outstanding at the end of 1969 amounted to E$17.7
million (principal), of which E$8.588 million was for financing agricultural
production and processing coffee. Interest outstanding on loans at the end
of 1969 amounted to E$2.524 million. At the end of 1968, E$9.254 million on
account of principal and interest were overdue; of this, E$3.402 million was
overdue for more than two years and E$4.653 million was overdue from three
firms, which have since gone into liquidation.  The bank's auditors (Price,
Waterhouse, Peat & Co.) have commented on the inadequacy of reserves to cover
bad and doubtful debts.
10.       About 50% of the agricultural loans was overdue.  The bank's method
of appraisal of loan applications was faulty and it did not take prompt action
to proceed against defaulting borrowers in several cases, mainly due to poli-
tical interference. Accounts of the bank were not maintained up-to-date and
the auditors observed that delays of over a month occurred in writing up the
accounts.
11.       The bank charged interest at 8% on short-term agricultural loans
and 7-1/2% on medium- and long-term agricultural loans. On industrial loans,
the corresponding rates were 8% and 8-1/2%, respectively. Loans were sanc-
tioned on the basis of satisfactory financial status of the borrower and the
loan officer's recommendations. A loan committee in the bank made recom-
mendations on the applications, and loans up to E$200,000 were sanctioned
by the Managing Director; loans for higher amounts were referred to the
Board.
12.       The bank had a total staff of 130, many of whom had not received
any training in banking. At the higher and middle management levels, the
bank's staff did not appear to possess the necessary competence and expertise
to deal with agricultural credit.
13.       The Ethiopian Investment Corporation (EIC).  Established as a fully
Government-owned share company in August 1963, the EIC had a paid-up share
capital of E$29.292 million and reserves of E$0.182 million. Apart from
capital funds, the EIC's main source of funds is a credit of E$20 million,
sanctioned by USAID in August 1967; a total amount of E$8.856 million had
since been drawn from this credit. The EIC invested E$24.370 million in
equity .capital of various Ethiopian companies and advanced E$12.894 million
as loans. The auditors (Mann, Judd & Co., London) have drawn attention to
the inadequacy of free reserves.
14.       The Corporation had a total staff of 30 and hardly any fixed assets
(less than E$100,000). The major part of its capital funds was invested in
49 different companies. Dividends received during the year amounted to only
E$282,013, which represents a return of about 1.2% on the investment.
15.       The net profit of EIC for the year ended July 1969 (EC 1961)
amounted to E$354,651. The EIC was prohibited from paying dividends on its
share capital under the loan agreement with USAID for a period of 10 years
following the date of the first disbursement.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
16.       About 55% of the loans advanced by EIC were for agriculture, of
which about 60% were to large plantations. Loans to agriculture were ad-
vanced at 8-1/2%.  Following an earlier Government decision to restrict LIC
financing to industry and DBE financing to agriculture, the EIC restricted
its business in agriculture in 1968/69 to the continuation of service to
existing borrowers and to agricultural enterprises closely associated with
industrial operations.
17.       The Addis Ababa Bank.  Established in 1964 as a share company,
Addis Ababa bank has a paid-up share capital of E$5 million, of which 40%
is held by the National and Grindleys Bank Ltd. and the rest by individuals.
The reserves amount to E$1.6 million, deposits to E$37.2 million and loans
and other advances to E$26.2 million. At the end of December 1969, the bank
had 16 branch offices and a total staff of 267.
18.       Of the total loans and advances, 9% was for agriculture, 41% for
foreign trade, 16% for industry, 24% for local trade and the rest for build-
ing construction and other miscellaneous activities. The management of the
bank is handled by a Board of eight Directors, of whom two are representa-
tives of the National and Grindleys Bank.
19.       The net earnings after tax in 1968 amounted to E$685,982.  The
operating expenses formed 2.5% of total assets. The bank has been declaring
a dividend of 5% since 1967.
20.       The Banco di Roma.  Established in 1967 as an Ethiopian share company,
this bank is the successor to the branch office of the Banco di Roma (Italy),
which had been operating in Asmara since before World War II. The bank has
a paid-up share capital of E$4 million. The head office is in Asmara and
branch offices exist in Addis Ababa, Aseb and Mitsiwa. The bank's main
sources of funds are its share capital deposits. It advances short-term
credits in the form of overdrafts or loans against goods to be exported.
The bank does not extend credit to finance agricultural production or market-
ing.,
21.       The Banco di Napoli.  This bank, which commenced operations in
Asmara as a branch office of the Banco di Napoli (Italy), has very recently
been incorporated as an Ethiopian share company. Its lending activities
consist of extending short- and medium-term commercial credit, mainly for
export and import promotion. No advances are granted for agricultural deve-
lopment.
22.       The Mortgage Company of Ethiopia.  Established in 1965 as a fully-
owned subsidiary of the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, the Mortgage Company of
Etthiopia had, as of D)ecember 31, 1968, a paid-up share capital of E$3 million,
reserves of E$0.62 million and long-term deposits of E$3.675 million. The
Company's main resources are borrowings from CBE, which amounted to E$24.5
million at the end of 1968; its loans and advances amounted to E$30.73 million,
mainly for financing industrial and domestic building construction as well as
purchase of property and durable consumer goods. Its net profits in 1968 after
provision for taxes amounted to E$482,413 and it has been declaring a dividend



ANNEX 2
Page 5
of 7% on its share capital since 1967. The loans advanced are for a maximum
period of five years and carry interest at 8-1/2%. The company also grants
three-year special mortgage loans at 9%. The management of the company vests
in a Board of five members, composed of the General Manager of CBE as Chairman,
two other representatives of CBE, one representative of the National Bank of
Ethiopia and the General Manager of the Mortgage Company.
Agricultural Credit in Ethiopia
23.       Although considerable potential exists in Ethiopia for an
expanded program of agricultural credit and investment through a more
intensive cultivation of the highland areas and higher land utilization
by means of settlement schemes in the lowlands, expeditious.governmental
action is required to remove certain major constraints in land development.
24.       Of the total land area of 122 million ha, about 54% is pasture
land, 11% cultivated agricultural land and the rest swamps, forests, barren
land, and the like. Of an estimated population of 23.7 million (1968), about
92.3% live in rural areas, and farming population accounts for 93% of the
total. Less than 1% of the rural population seeks a living as agricultural
laborers.
25.       A sample survey by Government in 14 provinces in recent years shows
that about 60% of the holdings are of less than 2 ha, which is considered
to be thie minimum economically viable size for a farm. There is also consi-
derable fragmentation of holdings; nearly two-thirds of the holdings in 11
provinces were found to be in more than one parcel. In Shoa Province, to
which the present Project relates, only about a third of the holdings are
owner-cultivated and the rest are either entirely leased or partly owned
and partly leased. The conditions of tenancy take various forms and, in
the majority of cases, there is no written lease agreement. Tenant culti-
vators have very little security of tenure; they present a poor credit
risk for institutional financing, both on account of the absence of any
security that they could offer in the form of property mortgage and on
account of uncertain landlord-tenant relationships. Non-institutional
agencies formed the major source of agricultural credit for tenant farmers
in Ethiopia and extremely high interest rates have been reported.
26.       A number of different systems of land tenure exist in Ethiopia.
Ownership rights are derived by purchase, grant or inheritance of lands
leased out on long-term or permanent basis by Government or the Church.
On the basis of A survey carried out in Shoa Province, it is estimated
that about 10% to 20% of the landholders may not have mortgageable rights
on land. Title deeds of land in rural areas do not exist and ownership
rights are established on the basis of tax receipts. No cadastral survey
of land has as yet been carried out and recording of ownership rights is
unknown. Presentation of tax receipts for a number of years is the only
method of establishing ownership rights and prior encumbrance to property
has to be investigated by a reference to registration of earlier mortgage
deeds.



AiNNEX 2
Page 6
27.        The absence of any law relating to chattel mortgage makes it
difficult for banks to advance short-term  loans for agricultural produc-
tion and marketing oni the security of standing or halrvested crops.
28.        The Government lhas submitted a land reform bill to Parliament
which would confer greater security of tenure cultivators and regulate the
division of the produce of the land between landlord and tenant. Additional
legislation is under preparation concerning cadastral survey and taxatlion
of unutilizedt land.
29.        Tie total credit for agricultural purposes provided by the CBE,
DBE1, EIC and the Addis Ababa bank, as of the end of 1969, amounted to about
E$39.5 imiillioni, of whiclh onily about E$8 million, provided by the DBE, was
medium or long term; the rest, mainly to large firms or the larger culti-
vators, was short term. The short-term credit requirements of small
farmers are thus not met by institutional agencies and very few of them
have perhaps availed of finance for capital investment needs in agriculture.
30.  The important pre-conditions to any expansion in the provision of
agricultural credit by banking institutions in Ethiopia are a cadastral
survey of land holdings and provision for the recording of ownership rights,
security of tenure for the tenant cultivators and legal provision for
chattel mortgage.
Special Arrangementsf_or Agricultural Credit
31.        The Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU). The project
administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, with technical and financial
assistance from thie Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), aims
at the economnic development of Chilalo Awraja (sub-province), Arusi Province,
by creating conditions favorable for intensive farming. Started in Septem-
ber 1967, CADU supplies fertilizers, improved seeds, concentrates for cattle,
half-breed hleifers, fencing material, and such to farmers in the area on
the basis of farm plans. Tenant farmers cultivating more than 40 ha and
owner-cultivators farming more than 25 ha do not get credit facilities. All
other farmers are required to make a down payment of 50% of the cost of
seed and payments, ranging from  25% to 75% of the cost of fertilizers,
depending on the size of farm; the balance is provided as short-term loans.
32.        Mledium-term credit is advanced when lheifers and fencing material
are supplied. The security for the credit would be from three sources:
(1) two guarantors acceptable to CADU, (2) an agreement by the borrower
to market hiis produce through CADU or an agent appointed by CADU, and
(3) the deposit of tax receipts by landowning farmers. The loan documents
are registered in the District Office. In the case of tenant cultivators,
a written lease agreement has to be entered into with the landlord under
whliclh provision is made inter alia for fixation of rent and for non-termi-
tit.ilon of lease, except in cases of rent default.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
33.       CADU provided credit to farmers in 1969/70 under reimbursement
facilities from the DBE; the DBE sanctioned E$400,000 during 1969/70 for
this purpose. Short-term credit is advanced by DBE at 8% and CADU extends
credit to farmers at 12% per annum. There are 13 Extension Agents of two
types.  Grade A Extension Agents are high school graduates in agriculture
who have undergone training in the Agricultural Research Institute; Grade B
Extension Agents are those who have not graduated and who are given a seven-
month training course by CADIJ.
34.       In 1969, 800 families borrowed from CADU, and, so far in 1970,
4,000 applications have been received. The project would cover about
22,000 families in the Chilalo Awraja within a six-year period. Apart
from credit, other services offered by CADU are creation and improvement
of marketing facilities; development of model farms; training of farmers;
and conducting studies on infrastructure, health and small industrial
ventures in the area.
35.       The Wolamo Sodo Project.  This Project provides for an integrated
attack on the problems of 6,000 subsistence farm families in the highlands,
through the provision of improved roads, markets, water supplies, agricul-
tural credit and extension services, as well as for the resettlement of
1,050 farm families in two new settlement areas in the neighboring lowlands.
The Project would supply credit to farmers in kind, as is done in the CADU
Project, but credit in cash would also be provided to farmers in the lowland
areas for payment of wages to labor.
36.       FAO - Freedom from hunger Campaign (FFHC).  The FFHC makes funds
available to the Ministry of Agriculture for supplying fertilizers on credit
to selected farmers. The program commenced in 1967 with 450 farmers owning
20 ha or more who had agreed to use 1/5 ha for raising wheat, barley or teff,
using fertilizers. In 1968, US$4,500 was provided by FAO under this project.
The rate of interest charged to the farmer was 7%. The funds are channeled
through AIDB on agency basis. The responsibility for recovery of loan rests
with the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 3
ETIIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Procurement, Demand and Supply of Dairy Heifers
1.        The estimated demand and supply of both Friesian-type and Friesian-
Zebu cross-bred dairy cattle is given in Table 1. As practically all dairy-
type heifers bred on dairy farms in the Project area are retained by their
owners for herd build-up, provision is made in the Project to procure all
heifer requirements for the Project by importation, by purchase from Asmara
or by breeding on Project-assisted cross-breeding ranches.
2.        Requirements of cross-bred heifers for small farmers would be
met by purchase from the five private cross-breeding ranches and Abernossa
and by breeding on participating farms through mating to Friesian bulls
by A.l. The number of heifers available through these sources would limit
the number of small farmers to be included in the Project to 240.
3.        The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) proposed in its applica-
tion that Friesian--type in-calf heifers should be imported from Kenya,
this being the cheapest potential source of supply. Estimated landed cost
of in-calf heifers from Kenya is about US$400 equivalent, compared to at
least US$720 equivalent from Israel, Europe or Australasia. Kenya would
also be the cheapest source of supply of weaner heifers, with an estimated
landed cost of US$180 equivalent, compared to about US$240 equivalent from
l.urope. The accompanying chart indicates the effect of price of either
in-calf heifers or weaner heifers on the financial rate of return to large
dairy farms.
4.        Despite the fact that most dairy farmers indicate a preference
for purchase of in-calf heifers, there are a number of technical reasons
favoring purchase of weaner heifers 8 to 10 months old, in the case of
imports. There would be less risk of losses due to physiological stress
during transport in the case of weaner heifers and they would have greater
opportunity to hecome adapted to the environment and acquire resistance to
various diseases before being subjected to the stresses of calving and
lactation.  Ilis procedure would also give farmers greater opportunity to
gain experience in handling Friesian-type dairy cattle before they com-
mence milk production.
J.        Analysis of the data on which the charts shown in Figure 1 are
based indicates that Importation of weaner heifers is also likely to give
better financial rates of return than importation of In-calf heifers. For
example, in the case of purchase from Kenya, in-calf heifers at US$400



ANNEX 3
Page 2
give a return just below 20%1., whereas weaner heifers at US$180 would give
a return of 23%. In the case of purchase from other sources, in-calf
heifers at US$720 give a rate of return below 13% while weaner heifers at
US$240 give a rate of return just over 20%.
6.        Thus, on the basis of both technical and economic reasons, it
would be preferable that weaner heifers should be imported rather than in-calf
heifers.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
ADIS ABAA DnRY IEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Demand and Supply of Dairy Cattle
--  -  -  -  -- --Tear---------------------
ITEM                                      UNIT           1               2              3                4             5               6
Demand for Breeding Friesian BDuls
Holleta Dairy Stud Farm                           No.            -              -             ,2
Abernossa Cross-Breeding Ranch                    No.           46             10              10              10
Private Cross-Breeding Ranches                    Nc.           33             25               8              10            10               13
Medium aise Dairy Farm                            NcI.           --                            -               40            27               20
Total                                          No.          79              35             20               60            37               33
Supply of Breeding Friesian Bulls
Holleta Dairy Stud Farm                           No.          11              16             40               68            67               68
Foreign Countries                                 No.          68              19               -               -              -
Total                                          No.          79              35             40               68            67               68
Breeding Bulls Available for Non-Project Use        No.            -              -              20               8            30               35
Demand for Friesian Weaner Heifers
Medium Size Dairy Farms                           No.       1,200          1,610           1,140           1,090            460
Total                                          No.       1,200           1,610          1,140            1,090           460
Supply of Friesian Weaner Heifers
Asmara Region in North Ethiopia                   No.         300             410            380              370           140
Foreign Countries                                 No.          900          1,200             760             720            320
Total                                          No.       1,200           1,610          1,140            1,090           460
Demand for Friesian X Zebu In-Calf Heifers
Small Dairy Farms                                 No.            -              -               -              90            588-            762
Total                                          No.                                                          g o -  90     586             762
Supply of Friesian X Zebu In-Calt Heifers
Abernosaa Cross-Breeding Ranch                    No.            _                              -              60            240             240
Private Cross-Breading Ranches                    No.            _              -               _               -            153             2614
Small Dairy Farms                                 No.            -              -               -              30            196             252
Total                                          No.            -              -               -              90            589             756
NOvember 12, 1970



ANNE-X 3
ETHIO  PI A                                         FIGURE 1
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EFFECT OF AGE AND PRICE OF HEIFERS ON RATE OF RETUR N
28%
27%
26%
25%
24%
FINANCIAL   23%
RATE OF
RETURN
22%
21%
20%
19%
18% .___ _                                                 _-
17%
300           400            500            600            700            800
PRICE OF FRIESIAN WEANER HEIFERS IN ETHIOPIAN DOLLARS
21%
20%
19%/
18%
FINANCIAL    17%
RATE OF
RETURN       16%
15%                                                             _  _  _ _  _
14%                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
13%
12%
1000           1250          1500           1750           2000
PRICE OF FRIESIAN IN-CALF HEIFERS IN ETHIOPIAN DOLLARS
IBRD-5042(R)



ADIB A8A8A DAr  EIVICIFIT  P3J?CT
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DOsIiin fre                                                                                                        r j
CATEOOH7                                  UNIT        Blefog  De elon2)               1                  2                  3                   4                  5                   6                   7                   a 
QLT-IRI                                               H-r B.eOE,                E_w ,  1           B       r          B        3          B                  B        B          B 6     .B          B     FxB           B  8 NB            B      PuB
BHD OCMPOSITION
Breedng Co                                  No            656         -             656    -           656    -           656    -            656    -            656    -           656 -               656    -            656    _           656
Mated Beifws                                No:           14          -             144    -           144    -            lb4    70          lbb   282          114    282          144   282           14b   282           144    -           l14
Calves Wened                                No.           600         -             450   150           -    600           _    600            -    600            -    600          600    -            600    -            600    -           600
8eifws 9-21 4Months                         No.           291         -             21    -            218    72                 291           -    291            -    291            -    291          291    -            291    -           291
Steers  9-24 Koths                          go.           291         -             291    -           218    73            -    291           -    291            -    291           -    291           291    -            291    -           291
Steers 24-36 Montb                          No.           282         -             282    -           282    -           211    71            -      82           -     82            -     82           -      82          282    -           282
Frieian Bulle                               No.            -          12             -     48           -      b8           -     48                  4 48         -     15                  15           -     15            -
BorsiaBoll                                  No.            36         -              _     -            -      -            -     -            -      -            22    -             27    -            27    -             38    _            38
Total Niber                            No.        2,300         12          2,114   198         1,518   793        1,011 1,371           800 1,59b           822 1,561        1,427   961         2.009   379        2.302    -          2.302
Total Animal Units                    go.               1,712                      ,12              1,71               1,782               1,794               1,783              1,788               1,788              1,702               1,702
PUEHSES
In-C&U  Heifers - B3ar                      No.                       _              _     _            _      _           _      _           l144    -          144    -            144    -            144    -
Broeding Baul   -riesian                    No.            -          15                   4 46         -      10          _      10           -     10            -     -            -       3           -       3           -
Brhdm Balls  -NBorm                         No.                                          _-                -                      -            - _                 27    -              9    -             5    -            18                   7
Total umbers                          No.                       15                    46           _     10           _      10          l14    10          171    -            153      3          149     3           18    -              7
MORTALITT
Breadin Cg e                                No.            24         -              24    -            24    -            24    -             2b    -             24    _            24    -             24    -             24    -            24
Mated Heifes                                No.             9         -               9    -             9    -              7     2           -       9           -       9           -      9           -       9            9    -              9
Heifr m 9-24 M8ts                           No.             9         -               9    -             7      3           -      9                   9                   9           -      9            9                   9    -              9    -
Steers 9-24 Months                          No.             9         -               9    -             7      2           -      9           -       9           -      9            -      9            9    -              9    -              9
steer  24-36 Mnths                          No.             9         -               9    -             9    -              7     2           -       9           -      9            -      9           -       9            9    -              9
Buls                                        No.             2          1             -      2           -       2           -      2           _       2            1     1             1     1            1      1            1    -              1
Total Nueber.                         No.             63          1             60     2           56      7          38    24            21.   38            25    37           25    37            43    19           61    -             61
SALES
Coll Cows                                   No.           120         -             120    -           120    -           120    _            120    -            120    -           120    -            120    -            120    -           120
In-Calf Cross-red Heifers                   No.            _-                          -          -               -            -                -     60           -    240            -    210               210            -    240            -
ated Borna Heifs                            No.           138         -             138    -           138    _             67    _             _     _            _                   _                                     138    -            138
BTon  Hia                                   No.            _          _                    _N  -  -                  -                         -      10           -     42                  4 12         _      42           -     42            -
Stesrs 24-36  gnths                         Uo.           282         -             282    -           282    -           282    _            211   21             -    288            _    282           -    282            -      82          282
Can Bulls                                   No.             6          2             18     8           -       8           -      8           -       8            4      8            3     2            4      2            6      2            6
Breeding Blls                               No.            -          -              18    -            _-                  - _      _         _         _               24                         -            -            -      13           -
Total Nmbere                          No.            546          2            576     8          540      8         469      8          331   349           121  596           123   566           124   566           264   379          546
PFHOWCTION DILTA
Effective Calving Bate,
a.Hmd   Cows  d Heifers                S              75         -              75    -            75    -             75    _            75    -             75    -             75    -            75    -             75    -             75
b.Purshaed Cov   and Heifwe            S                              -           -          -               -            -               -      -            75    -             75    -            75    -             75    -             75
Conoeptlm Rate of Cross-breds               S                                              _-               -               - _      _                85           -      85           -     85           -      85           -      85           -     85
COv Culing Rate                             S              15                        15-                15                  15                  15   -             15    -             15 -               15    -             15    -             15
Bu2l C    1u ingRate                        S              15         15             15    15           15    15            15    15           15    15            15    15            15    15           15    15            15    -15
Adult Mortalit                             S               3          3              3      3            3     3            3      3            3     3            3      3            3      3            3     3            3    -             15
B - Bormia  cattle
P   - hiensi-Borona cross-bred cattle



AMIS AMU DM31 MKWOT MJICT
Pri""    wm                2m 1   - 2  o
- - - - - - - - - - - - - _, - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - lbd at 7rW - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
1                2                  3                 4                 5                  6                 7                  8                  9                10
BMaTe Df l1
cgr goy                            mtr            z         r           z                z                  z z  z                  * z  Fz z                              z z  vZ  z  Z  Z  Fla        z      lxZ         z   -   z         z      vz
HZR  ODMSITICE
l Oding Cow                                 No.         85          -        172    -            2     -         164      -        164      -         164      _        164      -         164      -         164     -         164a     -         I&
Mated H.±fws                                  o         2                      28    -          28      -         36      -          36     60         36      64         36      60        36      64         36      64        36      60         36      6
CalvH  Wo med                                lo:        6 28                 113                 3    130                1 _0       l4    140          15    1140         12    I6          12    14           12    140         12    14           12    6a
difws 9-24 Hontehl                          go.         29          -          30    -          54     -           2      62         -      67          7      67          7     67          6      67          6     67          6      67          6      67
St        9-24 Nmtho                        go.         29          _          31    -          54     -           1      63         -      67          6     67           7     67          6      67          6     67          6      67          6      67
Ste.ru  24-36 Mctbo                         No.         28          _         28    -           30     -          52      -           1     60                 6 4         6     64          7      64          6     64          6      64          6      64
8t.rs 36-48Msnths                           No.         28          -         27    -           27     -          29      -          50     -           1      58         -      61          6      61          7     61          6      61          6      61
Frieasn Hulls                               No.         -           _          -     10         -      10         -       10         -                 -                  -                         n1                2 11       -       11      _1-
Zebu U 1M^ No.                                           5                    -      -          -  -                                                                             -          -       _          _         _       _-           -             -
Total  DbOrJ                          go.         297         _         429    10        368    lhO        284    275         265    405        229    471         232    474         237    474        237    4714        236    1174       236    474
Total haMnlUnits                      go.              231                  326              375                419               516                545              554                 559                559               558                so
Breg    mal , - Z.ba                        No.         -           -        100    -            8              -                   35      -          37      -          30     -          30      -          31      -         31      -          31      -
BroodingMBalls   - Frieian                  No.         -             _       _      n           -      1         _        2        -        2         -       2          -       3         -        2         -       2         -        3         -        2
Total mbus                            llo.        _           _         100    U           8       1        -        2         35       2         37      2         30       3         30       2        31       2         31      3         31       2
MOBOLUT
Brmding Con                                 No.          5          -         11    -            6     _           6      -           7     -           7      -           7      -          7      -           7      -          7      -           7      -
Mated Rhdtre                                go.          1                      1                2                 2      -          _       2         -        3         -       3         _       -3                  3        -        3                  3
eifers 9-24 Mnths                           No.          2          _           2    -           3     -          -        3         -       3         -        3          1       3        -        3         -        3        -        3         -        3
Stews  9-24 Hmths                           No.          2          _           2    -           2                         2         -       3          1       3         -       3                  3                 3                  3         -        3
Stears 24-36 Nthe                           No.          1                      1    -          1                2      -         _        3         -        3         _       3                  3                 3         -        3         -        3
Sters 36-48 Months                          I.           1          _          1    _            1                  1    -           2     _          -        2         -       3         -        3         _        3        -        3         -        3
Balls                                       No.         _           _          _      1         _      _          _        1         -      _          _       _          _        1        _       _          _      _           _       1         _       _
Total Nulbw                           Mo.         12          -          18     1         15      -         11       6          9     1            a     345         e      16          7      15          7     15          7      16          7     1S
SUM
can1lCos                                    No.         10         _          30    -           30     _          30      _         30      _          30      -          30      -         30      -          30      -          30     -          30      -
r-ClCrwn-Brad Heifses                      Mo.          -                     _      _         _       _          _                 - _                         1         -                 -       54         -                 - 54               -       54
Mated Zedn  H1w.                            go.         _           _                                             16      -                            -  -          -            -          -      -          -       -          -      -          -
Barr uiMf s                                 No.         -                                                                                     _  _              9         _      1o         _       10         _       10         -      10         '.      10
Stews 36-48 Joths                           Mo.         27          -          27    -          27      -         27                 29     _50                -           1       8         -      61          6      61          7     61          6      61
CU  Blh                                     110.         1          -           5               -       1         -        1         -       1                  2         -        2         -       2         -        2         -       2         -        2
Total Nubes                           So.         38          -          62    -          57       1         73       1         59      1         80      62         31    124         30    127          36    127          37    127         36    127
PM3WCTtM DATA
*.flmebComm, oad8 . fwe          o                65          -          65        _      6                  70      -         70                 70      -          70     -          70      -          70     -           70     -          70      -
b. 1bed a" 0         md mefws           %          140        -           40              40      -                             40                40      - -4               -         40      -          1_0     -          140    - 4_0              -
Olho__m Iste ef Grs-br t dst                 S          -           -                -          -                  -                                           8-  5  -  85  -    85         -                  _5  -  8                  85                85
Co Cuhllin  Rats                             %          15          -          15 -             15      _         15      _          15      -         15      -          15      -          1s      -         15      -          15      -          15      -
Frikeim  PAU1 0.U4gRate                      %                     -                 15         -       15         -      15      --t--                        15         -       15                                                      is  S ~ - 1  -     35
Adlt    ta1ty         .                      5           5   -                 _     1S          5       5          14    1S         14       4          14    4S4          4      1S4 -1                                       _          1S         1       14
Y  Z          .al zeb
1        q niz   pal, Ceim-Za  Oroeg-bid.



AIIk4t 5
Table 2
ITHIOPIk
ADDIS AD     MMI   VLOMT PROJECT
Private Cross-BreeinE Rnob lodel - 200 Cous
Investment Coots and Financinst
I  t  a a                                        Units    Unit Coat    Totdl Coat
On-Farm Investment
Fencing                                       9J000 Dl        0.80       7,200
Water Piping                                  3,000 x         2.25       6,750
Water Tank (25,0001)                              1       2,000           2s000
Water Pump                                        1         270            270
Water Trough                                      2         400             800
Spray Race                                        1       3,000          3,000
Crush and Working Paddock                         1       2,000          2,000
Small Equipmzent and Tools                                                 500
Friesian-Breeding Bulls                          11       1,000         11,000
Zebu-Breeding Females                           100          80          80oo0
Contingencies (approx. 10%)                                              4a. h80
Total Investment                                                      46.ooo
Financinm
DI)A  Loan-'/                                                            36,800
Famer's Contribution                                                     9200
Total Financing
1/ The Dairy Development Agency (DDA) loan is equivalent
to 80% of the total investment cost.
i/ The farmer's contribution is equivalent to 20% of t;he total invantmnt
cost.
November 12, 1970



EITIOPIA
ADDIS ARBRA  DAIE! DhVILPIQT PROJECT
Private Cross-Breeding anch Model- 200 Cows
ProjeCtions of Income and Operating Costs
g                                                           Before             - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
|   ITEMS                     *        UNIT      Developmnt          1           2          3           4           5           6           7           8          9         10-12
CATTLLE SALESI
o     Cull Cows                                  E$         1,000          3,000       3,000      3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000      3,000       3,000
In-Calf Cross-Bred Heifws                 E$                                                  -          -        17,850      18,900      18,900      16,900     18,900      18,900
Mated Zebu Heifers Ea                                  -              -           -         1,280        -           -           -           -           -           -          -
Barren Heifers                            ES           -              -           -           -          -           540         600         600         600        600         600
Steers 36-48 Months                       E$         4,860          4,860       4,860       4,860      5,220       9,000      12,650      13,115      14,195     14,375      14,195
Cull Blls                                 ES           150            750         250         250        250         500         500         500         500        500         500
T?t,.L Cattle Sales                  E$          6,010          8,610       8.uo       9,390       8,470      30,890      35,650      36.115     37.195      37,375      37,195
OPERATING IOSTS
Salary for Mansger 2                      E$         1,800          1,800       1,800      1,800       1,800       1,800       1,800       1,800      1,800       1,800       1,800
Salaries for Labor3/                      ES         1,080          1,620       1,620      1,620       1,620       2,160       2,160       2,160       2,160      2,160       2,160
Salary for Night WAtohman                 ES           -              700         700        700         700         700         700         700         700        700         700
Feed CostW                                ES           -              750         750         750        825         825         825         825         825        825         825
Veterinary Serflcea, Dipe
and Mineral&1a                          ES           200          1,630       1,875      2,095       2,580       2,725       2,770       2,795       2,795       2,790      2,790
BrsedirAg Stodck -R eepacetst
Zebu Fml a                              E $                         _           560         -        2,450       2,590       2,100       2,100       2,170       2,170      2,170
Friesian Balslt/                        ES           -              _         1,000      1,400       1,400       1,400       2,100       1,400       1,40o       2,100      1,400
Water Equiement ruelmdLsg
Repairs Y                               ES           -              489         563         629        774         818         831         839         839         837        837
Fencing aBuilding Mainteamce2e            ES           -              -           750         750        750         750         750         750         750        750         750
Lend Tax ±f                               ES           600            600         600         600        600         600         600         600         600        600         600
Miscellaneous                             ES           -              200         200         200        200         500         500         500         500         500        500
Total Operating Costs                ES          3,680          7,789     10,41P      10,544      13,699      1I4, 661    15,136     14,269      14,539      15,232      111,532
Price Assinptions in E9: cull cow 100; in-calf cross-bred heifer 350; mated Zebu- heifer 80; barren heifer 60; fat steer- Zebu 180; fat steer- Friesian x Zebu 215;
cull bull- Zebu 150; end cull bull- Fresien 250.
2/ Part-time manager.
4E540 per annum per worker.
500 kg per Friesian breeding bull per annum at E$ 15 per 100 kg.
A At ES 5 per A.U.per annum.                                                                                                                                                        I
A/ t E|$ 70 per Zebu female. 
/ At 2$ 1,000 per Friesian bull in year 2 and at ES 700 per Friesian bull in the following years.
At ES 1.50 per A.U. per annum.
2/ At 5% of investment costs.
At E$ 1 per ha.



ETHOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEYLOPHET PROJECT
Private Cross-Breeding Ranch Model - 200 Cows
Financisli -rgactloms
(E$)
o2 ------ - -------------------- - ---- - ~~~~~~Years ------------ -_-__
d                                                       Before            1        2         3        4        5         6        7         8        9         10        U       12-15
ITEM                                      Developent
H Cash Inflow
H     Sale of Cattle                                     6,010          8,610    8,060    9,390    8,470   30,890   30,650   36,115   37,195   37,375    37,195    37,195   37,195
4     Short-Term Loan                                       _-                               -      8,357       -        -        -         -        -          -         -        -
o     Long-Term Loan                                       -           36,800      -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -         -          -        -
Total                                           6,010         45,410    8,060    9,390   16,827   30,890   30,650   36,115   37,195   37,375    37,195    37,195   37,195
Cash Outflow
Investments:  (a)  Farmer's Contribution             -            9,200      -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -         -          -        -
(b)  Long-Term Loan                    -          36,800      -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -          -         -        -
Operating Cost                                     3J680          7,789   10.418   10.544   13.699   14.868   15,136  314,469   14.539   15,232    14.532    14,532   14,532
Total                                           3,680         53,789   10,418   10,544   13,699   l4,868   15,136   14,J469   14,539   15,232    14,532    14,532   14,532
Annual Cash Balance Before Debt Servics               2,330         (8,379)  (2,358)  (1,154)   3,128   16,022   15,514   21,646   22,656   22,143    22,663    22,663   22,663
Debt Service
ntereat on Short-Term Loan  ,                        _              _        -        _         _        794       -        _        _         _         _          _        _
Aaortisation of Short-Term Loan                                              -        -         -      8,357       -        _        _         _         _          _        _
Interest on Long-Term Loan Y                                        -      3,128    3,128    3,128    3,128    3,128    2,346    1,564         782       -
Amortization of Long-Term Loan                       -              -        -        -         -        -       9,200    9.200    9,200    9,200        -          -        -
Total                                             -              -      3,128    3,128    3,128   12,279   12,328   11,546   10,764    9,982          -          -        -
Annual Cash Balance After Debt Service                2,330         (8,379)  (5,486)  (4,282)      -      3,743    3,186   10,100   11,892   12,161    22,663    22,663   22,663
Annual Incre.ntal Cash Balance                          -          (10,709)  (7,816)  (6,612)  (2,330)   1,413        856    7,770    9,562    9,831    20,333    20,333   20,333
Cumulative Incremental Cash Blnce                       -          (10,709) (18,525) (25,137) (27,467) (26,054) (25,198) (17,428)  (7,866)   1,965    22,298    42,631  123,963 k
Anmual Incremental Herd Value                           _           17,600    6,6o0   10,280   27,950    6,285    1,090         -         -        -         -         -
!/ 9.5% p.a.
2/ 8.5% p.a. on the outstanding balance.
i  Total term of 10 years, including 4 years of grace.
Cwmlative incremental cash balance for year 15.



Da nZ1W - 100c
or.                                                      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -d of her   -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
OLTEOT                        WinT          D-om- - 1                         _  2      -  -                             5             6            7           B.1S
NU  mNPOBITIC
Cow                                  No.               62                61            60           59            77           77            77           77            77
In-Calf NHifers                      No.               17                17            16           hi            23           23            23           23            23
Heifer Calv,.                        No.               20                25            33           33            43           43            43            43           43
BulU Cal.                             io               21                25            33           32            43           43            43            43           43
Puoh" d BulCalves                    No                -                 27            6k           54            45           45            45           h5            45
N  fars 9-24 Nonthu                  No.               20                19            24            -            -             -
Bulls   9-24  mnths                  No.               14                20            24            32           31            41           41           41            41
Purohased Bans. 9-24 Nothe           go.               -                 -             26           52            52           43            43           43.           43
Bulls Iin Suee                       No.                6                 1             1             2            2             2            2             2_           2
Total Numbers                   No.              160               195           271          305           316          317           317          317           317
Total Aniaml Unit               No.             117                118           151          186           185          186           186          186           186
BIRTNS
Heifer Calves                        No.               24                29            39           38            S0           S0            50            So           S0
Bunal."a                             No.               24                29            39           38            S0           S0            S0           S0            50
Total Nbwe                      -o.                48                58            78           76           100          100           1oD          100           100
PaRcRASMS
In-Colf Heifers                      No.
Bull Calves                          No.               -                 30            60           60            So           So            So           So            So
Total Nubers                     No.              -                  30            60           60            S0           S0            S0           S     _       50
MrTAlarT
cow                                  No                 2                 2             2             2            3             3            3             3            3
In-CaLf NHifw                        No.                1                 1             1             2            1            2             2             2            2
N.ifr Calves                         No.                4                 4             6             5            7             7            7             7            7
Bull Ceas                            No.                3                 4             6             6            7             7            7             7            7
Purchasd Bn B   Calves               No.               -                  3             6            6             5            6             5             5            S
Heifers 9-24 Months                  No.                1                 1             1            -            -             -            -             -            -
Buls   9-24 Hmth                     No.                                  1             1            1             1             2            2             2            2
Pwrehaaed Balles9-24 KntM b          No.                        -                       1            2             2            2             2             2            2
Total Numbers                    No.               11                16            24           24            26           28            28           28            28
sAl
'1all Cows                            No.               10                16            16           15            20           20            20           20            20
In-Calf Heifers                      No.               -                 -             -             8             6           14            14           14            14
Barren Heifers                       No.                2                 2             2             6            3             4            4             4            4
Bulls for Breading (Own)             No.               12                11            16           19            26            25           33            33           33
Bulls for Breedirs (Pordcased)       No.               -                 -             -            19            42            42           36            33.1         35
Rejeoted BaU                         No.                2                  3                         10           16            16           16                         16
OuV1 Bollo                           No.               -                  5            -              1           -             - _
Total Nubers                     No,               26                37            38           78           113          121           122           122          122
MIUCTIDNB DTA
COnoeptien Bate Cows                                   66                87            87           87            87            87           87            87           87
Conoeption Rate NHeif'                %                90                90            90            90           90            90           90            90           90
Horta1iit
Adult                              %3                                  3             3            3             3            3             3             3            3
Heifer CalvesI'                                     16                16            16           16            15 1S                      16           15            15
Bull Ce1e& Ns                                        1S               16            16           16            15 11                      16           16            16
Purehaed Bull Calve                N                -                 10            10           10            10           10            10           10            10
Cmv Culling Rate                                       14                20            20            20           20            20           20            20           20
Rejected Boll ate                     S                16                 20           20            20           20            20           20            20           20
Caloing Interval                     Muoth.            16                14            14            14           14            14           14            14           14
Age at  irt Cal"ng                   Months           24-36              24-36        24-36         24-36        24-30         24-30        24-30         24-30        24-30
/ This culling of bulls In Bervice will be repeated In  ear 11.
g/ lnoludSng stlil-births.
No,ssber 12, 1970



A NNEX 6
ETOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PRSJECT
Holleta Dairy Stud Farm - 100 Cows
Investment Goste andnanns
Year
ITEK                   --------------  1 ------------------1-
Units        Unit Cost         Total Cost
On-Farm Investment
Fencing                          3,000 m             0.80          2,400
Manager's Howue                      1          9,600              9,600
Water Piping                     1,500 '             a.25          3,375
Water Tank (40,000 1)                1          2,500              2,500
Pumping Unit                         1          3,200              3,200
Water Troughs                       14             400             1,600
Labor Cost for Water
Installation                                                     2,300
Large Dairy Cooler                   1             900               900
Spray Race                           1          3,000              3,000
Crush and Working
Paddock                            1          1,500              1,500
Small Equipment and Tools                                          3,000
Contingencies (approx. 10%)                                        3,625
Total Investment                                               37,000
Financing
DDA Loan                                                          37-000
Total Financing                                                37,°000
v1 Since HoUrta Dairy Stud Farm is part of the Dairy Develo1mnent Agency
(DDA), thi:s is an in-ternal loan.
November 12, 1970



E T H I O P I A
ADDIS ABABA DTRY  VSLOPMENT PRCJECr
Holleta Dairy Stud Farm - 100 Cows
kAeOMi Prg.jent4nIS
Before            ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Years --------------------------------------- -------------------------------------
rmr                         UNIT      Development           1            2            3            4             5            6            7            8             9            10            11             12-15
lMIL SALFBL"
Cows ir Milk                                NO.            38               40           59           58            58           75           75           75            75           75            75             75             75
Heifers in Milk                             "               8               16           17            i6           40           22           22           22            22           22             22            22             22
Milk Yield per COw                       l/sar         2,800            2,900        3,000         3,000        3,100        3,100        3,200         3,200        3,200        3,200         3,200          1,200          3,200
Milk Yield per Heifer                    l/ear         2,100            2,200        2,300         2,300        2,400        2,400        2,500         2,500        2,500        2,500         2,500          2,500          2,500
Total Milk "reduction - Cows               'OO 1        1,064            1,160        1,770         1,740        1,798        2,325        2,400         2,400        2,400        2,400         2,bOO          2,400          2,400
Total Milk Production - Heifers            'OO 1          168              352           391          368          960          528          550           550          550          550            550           550            55D
Total Milk Prod'tiOn                       'OO 1        1,232            1,512        2,161         2,108        2,758        2,853        2,950         2,950        2,950        2,950          2,950         2,950          2,950
Milk Fed Calve'0- OO 1                                    185              360          567           562          612          612          612          612           612          612           612            612            612
Milk for Sale                              'OO 1        1,047            1,152        1,594.        1,546        2,146        2,241        2,338         2,338        2,338        2,338          2,330         2,338          2,338
Milk Price                                 ES/i             0.28             0.33         0.33          0.33         0.33         0.33         0.33         0.30          0.30         0.30           0.30          0.25           0.25
Total Milk Sales                          EB         29,316           38,016        52,602       51,018       70,818       73,953       77,154        70,140       70,140       70,140        70,140         58,450         58,450
:ATTLE sBII
Cuf  Come                                    3S         1,500            2,400        2,400         2,250        3,000        3,000        3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000          3,000         3,000          3,000
In-calf Heifers                              SS           -                -            -           6,C00        4,800       11,200       11,200       11,200        11,200       131,200       1,200          11,200         11,200
Barren Heifers                               E$           240              240           240          720          360          180           480          480          480          480            480           480            Lao
BElls for Breeding                           3$         8,400            7,700       11,200        26,600       h7,600       46,900       47,600        46,200       47,600       47,600         47,600        47,600         47,600
Rejected Bulls                              ES           240               360          480        1,200        1,920        1,920         1,920        1,920        1,920         1,920         1,920         1,920          1,920
Cull Bulls                                   ES           -              i,5oo           -            300          -            -             -            600          -            -              -             600            -
Total Cattle Sales                         S$        10,380           12,200        14,320       37,470       q7,680       63,500        64,200       63,400       64,200       64,200         64,200        64,800         64,200
Total Incme                                E$         39,696          50,216        6',922       88,488      128,498      137,453       141,354      133,540      134,340      134,340        134,340       123,250         122,650
L/ All cattle on Bolleta Muiry Stud Farm are Friesians.
1  400 1 per heifer calf and 500 1 per bull calf.
Price assumptions in ES, cull cow 150;  in-calf heifer 800;  barren heifer 120; bull for breeding 700; reJected bull 120; and cull bUll 30O.



3 T H I O P I A
LDOS ARE&B  MMs 01LO0MM FRJUCT
Holleta 1airy Stud arm - 100 Cows
,A)erraw LAfojora0D
Before
1034                         UNIT       Deelpment             1           2           3            4          5            6           7            8           9           10            11           12-15
OmATIO COSTS
Salaries and Wages
Manager                                  U           9,600            9,600        9,600       9,600        9,600      9,600        9,600       9,600        9,600      9,600         9,600        9,60o          9,600
Clerk                                   T3 720                          720         720          720         720         720         720          720         720         720           720          720            720
oriver/Mechanic                         3$           1,800            1,800       1,800        1,800       1,800       1,800       1,800        1,800       1,800       1,800         1,800        1,800          1,800
Tractor Driver                           3$          1,200            1,200        1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200        1,200       1,200        1,200      1,200         1,200        1,200          1,200
pump operator                            3$            540              540         540          540         540         540         540          540         540         540           540          540            540
Cattl Headan -Cows                       3$            720              720         720          720         720         720         720          720          720        720           720          720            720
Cattle Headnan - Young Stock             B$            -                720         720          720         720         720         720          720          720        720           720          720            720
ilgkers,1                                E$          5,400            5,400        5,400       5,400        6,480      6,480        6,480       6,480        6,480      6,480         6,480        6. MO          6,480
Other LaborV                            3B           1,080            1,620       1,620        1,620       1,620       1,620       1,620        1,620        1,620      1,620         1,620        1,620          1,620
Night Watchmanl                          3$          1,080            1,080        1,080       1,080       1,080       1,080        1,080       1,080        1,080      1,060         1,080        1,080          1,080
Sub-Total                              E$         22,140           23,400       23,400      21,480       24,180     24,180       24,480      24,480       24,480     24,480        24,480       24,180         24,480
Other Coate
Feed CostaY                             3B          12,420           15,405       26,085      29,070      33,420      34,440       35,085      32,175       32,175     32,175        32,175       32,175         32,175
Veterinary Spc,viceV/                    ES            -              2,925        4,065       4,575       4,740       4,755        1,799       1,755        1,799      1,799         4,755        4,755          4,755
A.I. ServicesW                ,,                       _                770         760          740         goo         970          970         970          970        970           970          970            970
Purchase of Friesian Boll Co .vesd.      3$            -                900       1,800        1,80        1,500       1,900       1,900        1,500       1,500       1,900         1,500        1,90 O         1,500
Vehicle hning and ReplirsY-.             15          4,000            1,000        4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000        4,000       4,000        4,000      4,000        14000         4,000          4,000
Tractor Running an4 Repairs?!           Eg           7,500            7,500        7,500       7,590        7,500      7,500        7,500       7,950        7,900      7,500         7,500        7,900          7,900
Water and Repsirs~Y                      3*            919              519         664          818          814        818          818         818          818        818           818           818           818
Replacement of Machinery and Bquiwnt?/  Es          10,000           10,000       10,000      10,000       10,000     10,000       10,000      10,000       10,000     10,000        10,000       10,000         10,000
Fencing and hilding   intaene g          U           3,000            3,000        3,700       3,700        3,700      3,700        3,700       3,700        3,700      3,700         3,700         3,700         3,700
Imad Tarx                                3$            220              220         220          220         220         220          220         220          220        220           220          220            220
Forap Productionl2/                      !$            900            1,000       1,200        1,200        1,900      1,500        1,500       2,000        2,000      2,0O0         2,000        2,0O0          2,000
Sub-total                              6$         38,155           46,239       59,994      63,623       68,374     69,403       70,048      67,638       67,638     67,638        67,638       67,638         67,638
Total                                  E$         60,295           69,639       83,394      87,023       92,854     93,883       94,528      92,118       92,118      92,118       92,118        92,118        92,118
Contingencies (approx 10%)                 3$          6,005            6,961       8,306        8,777        9,246      9,417        9,472       9,182        9,182      9,182         9,182        9,182          9,182
Total Operating Costs                  g$         66,300           76,600       91,700      95,800      102,100    103,300      1041400     101,300      101,300    101,300       101,300       101,300       101,300
/ The wage for a uil3mr, laborer or nightsatchman is BS%40 per anmum.
/ pFr details se Table 6 A-    6.
3/ Veterinary services at I1SO per acimal per annr.
J/ Artificial isaination at zo10 per cow, including 2 repeat inseairstiom if necessary.
5/ At Et0 per b calfp.e
61 20,000 kn/y0sr at 1*0.2O per km.
1/ ,500C hours per year at E$5 per hour-
, Cost is U$4.40 per anisa unit per arnUIR based on the following: 60 1 of water Per ani7al unit par day and water at a oest of E$0.20 per 1,000 1.
P/ At 16.7% of 3*60,000, or 310,000 per annm.
10/ At 5% of cost.
A it 311 per ba per amm.
Fbr purchase of seed for green fodder prodcction.



ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DA3R!Y DEEWPM3KT PROJECT
Holleta Sar  tud Farm - 100 Cows
FWaaal Pro-ib¢tions
e --- aears
a!                                                  Before          1        2       3        4        5       6        7        8       9        10        11     12-15
iTmP     _                            Development
- Cash Inflow
b4    Sale of Cattle                                10,380        12,200  14,320  37,470  57,680  63,500  64,200  63,400  64,200  64,200   64,200  123,250 122,650
Sale of Nilk                                  29,316        38,016  52,602  51,018  70,818  73,953  77,154  70,140  70,140  70,140   70,140   58,450  58,450
Short-Term Loan                                  _          26,384  56,813  73,767  57,522  31,979       808      -        -        _-                 -       -
Lob-Tem Loan                                     _         37,000          -        -       -        -        -       -        -             -         -       -
Total                                      39,696       113,600 127,735 162,255 186,020 169,432  142,162  133,540 134,340 1314,340  134,340  181,700 181,100
Cash Outflow
Iuveatment:  Long-Term Loans                               37,000      -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -        -         -
Operating Cost                                66,300        76,600  91.700  96,900  102.100 103,300 104,000 101.300 101.300 101,300  101,300  101.300 101.300
Total                                      66,300        l3, 600  91,700  96,900  102,100 103,300 104,000 101,300 101,300 101,300  101,300  101,300 101,300
Annual Cash Balance Before Debt Service         (26,6014)        -    32,035  65,355  83,920  66,132  38,162  32,240  33,000  33,000   33,000   80,400  79,800
Debt Service
Interest on Short-Term Loan 1/                   -            -      2,506   5,397    7,008   5,465   3,038        77      -        -        -         -       -
Amortisation of Short-Term Lqan                  _            -    26,384  56,813  73,767  57,522   31,979        808      -        -        -         -        -
Interest on Long-Term loan_/                     -            -      3,145   3,145   3,145   3,145   3,145   3,145         747      -        -         -       -
Amortization of Long-Term Loan 2/                -            -        -        -       -        -        -    28,210   8,790       -        -         -       -
Total                                         -             -    32,035  65,355  83,920  66,132  38,162   32,240   9,537         -         -        -        -
Annual Cash Balance After Debt Service          (26,604)         -        -        -       -        -        -       -    23,463  33,000   33,000   80,1400  79,800
Annual Incremental Cash Balance                     _          26,604  26,60L4  26,604  26,604   26,604  26,6014  26,6014 51,067   56,6014   56,604  107,004 106,404
Cummlative Incremental Cash Balance                 _          26,604 53,208  79,812  106,1416  133,020 159,624 186,228 209,691   266,295  322,899  429,903 536,30714/
Annual Incremental Herd Value                       _           8,000   30,800  34,100  (1,900)    700      -        -             -             -        _ 
I/ 9.5% p.a.
2 8.5% p.a. on the outstanding balance.
/ Total term of 8 years, including 6 years of grace.                                                                                                                         c
GCui lati-e incremental cash balance for year 15.



ETBIOPIA
6338 _ABABA DAJ3   NOW        TNJ~
-4   N                                           T,d.ea
- - - - -N--1-6-16  -  -  -  - - - -      -bd of Ye - - -  - - - - - - - - - -      -
HeTfeRD . C.Y .                                            .         , C. I S. i'.         M. C.    B. C.        3          4         5          -
RNRD NOSITrOI
Retire C    .ttl   e
Com.                              No.                    -              20        -           -         2           1         2          2         3          3         3
Tn-Caif Heirer                    No.           S        -              -        -            _         1          -          -         1           N        -           9          9
Boll Cc                                        16         -             16        -           .                     -         -          -         -          -         -
Heifer  9-24 Montho               No.           7                        T        - 
Streg       l                     N.           13                -           -          -          -          -          -     1         1          1          1
o -l    o                         No.           2         -             -         -           -         -           -         -          -          9          9         9         S
Sub-Totl                      No.          63        _3 4f                    _                                            1 _                  9 _                  9 _9
ftroSim Type Cattle
cm     l i                        No.          __                                                       22          31        25         26        32         31        31         31
In_Colf H*tfer                    No.          __.                                25          _         17         -           e        11,         0          9         9          9
Heifer Calve.                      No.          9         _              9        _                     10          16        12         17        18         20        18         18
Bull Cal"ve                        No                     -                                 -            - -  9  1  1          6        1          2
Heir r  9-24 M-teh.                 o                                                                               10        15         _                              _3
F    oriin  Bullo                 No.           8         _              8        -            8        2          3           1          1         1         1          1'        1
Sub-Totel                      No.                                             25                    4 0        57         61         56        SS         59  
Tot l NNob r                                           - .  63           73                     49              57         61         56        59         59        59         59
TrH Animl   its                No.              47                       57                     31              41         41         41        41         41        41         41
Heif. C.lve                          No.           9         -              1                      9       13          20        13         17        20         20        20         20
Bol Calve.                           No.           9         -              9                      9       12                     6         16        20         20        20         20
eTotal N91   bero    _           No.          18                       18        -           18        25         39         31        33         40        40         40         40
PURCHASES
Po2   6.            1 He Mfrhl        No.                                            _ 30                   1 20                  1-                             -            3
Sleare   = 7aNo.                                   1         -1                      --                    -         -_                     -         -          -         - 
otal Nw-bera                   No. .                  -              _         30          _         20         -           8         -         _          _            
Cows                                 No.           1         _              1                    21         1           6         1          6         7          1         2          1
tn-Calf Heifes                       No.           1         _              1        _           .                     _  10                          -           6 
Htarr ir e(o )                       H o.          1 .                      1        _            1         3           4         3          2         2          2         2          2
ittll e 9-2                          No.           I         _              1        _            1         1           2         2          1         1          1         1          1
Heifers 9-2C  Maltv                   No.          I         _              1        _            1        _           _          1
Bullha                               No.          -          .             _    2                _          1fer
Ster.                                No.                     - 
Totl Numbers                   No.          1 5       _               6             2       4         6          8          8        3           4          5         6          5
C.ol       Bt-      o                No.           4         -              4        -           24         2           6         5          6         7         8          7          8
In-Cr Hifdt                          No.           1         _             _         _            6        _           _10                             5          6         6          6
Harr n Heifers (OCrn)                No.           1         _              1                       10                           1          2         2          2          2         2
bacrren Helf ,s (Purch..ed)          No.          -          --                       3           -         2
rc.tle 9024 H1 0ths                  No .                    _             _         _           15        _ 
HetSfr Celv,at                       N                  -           -                -             8
Cull Calve                           Nc..                                                          8       11          17        14         15        19         19        11         19
Bung                                 N o  .       -          _              2        _           -         .           -         -          -         -          -          1-3       -
St"r/                                 No.          5 -                     20 _attle.
Total Nbire                    No.          11         -             27         3          62        15         23         20        33         3          35        35         35
i/RDUCTION DATA
Cmoneption R t*   CouS                 S          75         _75                     -            -        87          87        87         87        87         87        87         87
Gonoepticn Rate -Heifers               %          85         -             fiS       9°                    90S         90        -          90        90         90        90         90
xortality,
Heifer C.valv/              %            30                      10       -            ;0       20          20         20        10         10        10         10        10
1ka   Caivey                S           1C        _              10       _10                   10          10        10          5          5         5          5          5
Cow CUintg Rate                       %i          1S         _             _         _                     10          1S        17         17        17         20        20         20
Calstrg Interva t                   Noth.         18                       18        _-                    -           34A       14         14        14         14        14        314
JLg   at First Caving               Nonths      30-36        -           30.36       -_                  24-30       24-36     24-36      24-36     24-36      24-36     24-36      24-36
I/  N. C.   Natin Catte..
L/  E. C. -  uNpopa       Type Cattle.
I/ A Friesiano bull in purohased med mototr sold In year. 8 nd 12.
V   looluding still-births .
Noomeb*r 12, 1970



NrHIOPIA
AMIS A3BARA DAIRr DEVELOPWNT PROJECT
Medium Size Far Model - 40 Cows
Inveatments Obsts and Financing
Total
Units      Unit Cost      Tota Goat       Units      Unit CoCta2                                              Total Cost       Coat
_                                                                                                                                                            --
On-Farm Investment
Fencing                        1,300 in       0.80          1,040        2,700 a         0.80         2,160                                                    3,200
Covahad                          250 M       30                                                                                                                7,500
Manager's House                    50 m2     60             3,000                                                                                 -            3,000
Water Piping                    1,000 m        2.15          2,150                                                                                -            2,150
Water Trough                        1        200               200                                       _                                        _              200
Water Pump                         1        270               270                                        _                                        -              270
Spray Pump                         1         80                 80                                       -                                        -               80
Milk Cows (30 1)                                                                                         -             12         60              720            720
Milk Buckets                                                                                             -              8         15              120            120
Nilk Filter                                                                                             -               1         50               50             50
Surface Cooler                                                _                                          -              1        180              180            180
Cart                               1        780               780                                        -                                                       780
Small Equmaent and Tools                    -                 100                                        _                                        100            200
Establishebnt of Alfalfa V         1 ha     245               245                                                                                 -              245
Friesian Reifer,s
170-190 kg Yf                   30        600            18,000           20         600           12,000                                       -           30,000
Contingencies
(approximately 10%)                                       3,635                                     1,340                                       330          5.305
Total Investment                                      37,000                                     15,500                                    1,500         54,000
DDL Loan 3/                                                26,200                                    15,500                                     1.500        143,200
Farmar's Contribution -                                    10.800                                                                                 -           10.800
Total Financing                                        37,000                                    15,500                                    1,500         54,000
V The cost of establiiing 1 ha of alfalfa was based on the foflowing assumptions: (a) soil preparation cost E$ 52 per ha; (b) fertilizer cost for establishmnut
of 1 ha E$ 73; and (c) seed cost E$ 120 per ha.
2/ The ag  of Friesian beifers weighing 170 to 190 kg should be aproxintotely 9 months. 
The   ry Development Agency (DDi) loan is equivalent to 80% o  te totl investment ost.
4The farmsra contribution is equivalent to 20% of the total inrestment cost, but it is made entirely in the first year.



ADDIS ABA ]DI DEMLOP1E41T P30JECT
lNr    Rie sa  .'Iadel - 10 Gows
Prje zt_oso  ns,  nd0ffEVet
iF                                         i3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~efore  ----------------------------------------------------------------- Years --------------------------------------------------------------------__:=-___
rrcK                        UPNIT      Devel-          i          2          3          h         5          6          7          8          9         10          U           12          13-15
R                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~opment
MILK sALES
Cows in  k  - T.t.1                      No.          13            12         12        21         30         24         26         31        30         30         30          30          30           3D
Csw in Milk - atwve                      No.          13            12         12          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Cows in Milk - Friesisn                  No.           -             -          -         21        3r         2!1        26         31         30        30         30          30          30           3D
Heifers in Yilk -Total                   No.           4             5         29         16          -         8         13          8          9          9         9           9           9            Y
H.eifsrs in MilkH    ive                 No            4             5          5          -               -               -               -          -          -           -                -
Heifers in Milk -Friesian                No.           -             -         24         16         _          8         13          8          9          9         9           9           9            9
Milk Yield per Cow - N3tiv               1/year      500           5°°        500          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -            -
Xilk Yield per Cow - Friesian            1/year        -             -          -      2,400      2,400     2,500      2,500      2,600      2,600      2,700      2,700      2,800       2,800        2,800
NIlk Tied per Heifer - IAtive            1/year      400           400        400          -         -          -          -          -          _          -          -          -           -            -
KIlk Yield per Heifer - Friesian        1/year         -             -      1,800      1.8_O         -      1,800      1,800      1,900      2,000     2,100      2,100       2,200       2,200        2,200
Total Klk Pr.dictiqo                     '00 1        81            80        512        792        720       744        884        958        960        999        999      1,038       1,038        1,038
Milk Fed to 0alves                      '00 1         32            32         72        64         48         60         72         72         72         72        72          72          72           72
Milk for Ssle                            '001         49            48        440        728       672        681        812        886        888        927       927         966         966          966
Milk P rice                              16/1          0.29          0.33       0.33       0.23      0.33       0.33       0.33       0.30       0.30       0.30      0.30        0.25        0.25         0.25
TotAl Milk Sales                      5*         1,421         1,584    14,520    24,021      22,176    22,572      26,796    26,580      26,640    27,810      27,810     21,150      24,150       24,150
CATTLg SAjM/
Cull Ow                                  ES          240           240      1,740       900        750        900      1,090      1,200      1,050      1,200     1,200       1,200       1,200        1,200
Di-Golf Heifere                         3*            70             -        420          -         -      8,000      4,000      4,800      4,600      4,o800     ,800       4,800       1,800        1,80
Barren Hafers                           E$            60           420        240          -       120        240        240        240        240        240       240         2420                     240
9-24 Ibath Old Young Zattla             3$             -             -        600          -         -          -          -          -          -          -               -           -                  -
Retlve Calms                                                                  320          -          -         -          -          -                                -          -           -            -
Friesian Boll Calves                    3$             -             -        330        510       420        450        570        570        570        570       570         570         570          570
G1U1 Ball a/Steer.                      3            750         3,00o          -          -         -          -          -          -        300          -          -          -         300            -
Total Cattle Sales                     3$        1,120         3,660      3,650      1,l1O      1,290     9,590      9,860      6,810      6,960      6,810      6,810      6,810       7,110        6,810
Total Innome                           ZS        2,541         5,244    18,170      25,431     23,466    32,162     32,656    33,390    33,600       34,620    34,620       3D,960     31,260       3D,960
ORLITM 000TS
Salar7 for Na ger                        Zt            -         3,500      3,500      3,500      3,500     3,500      3,500      3,900      3,500      3,500      3,900      3,500       3,500        3,500
Salaries for Jbo:;/                     3$         1,200         1,800      1,800     2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400      3,000     3,000      3,000       3,O00       3,000        3,000
Feed COtsV                               3$             -        2,940      5,250      4,995      5,280      5,115     5,685      5,490      5,733      6,030      6,030      6,315       6,315        6,315
Veterinary Irvice5/                     Z$             -           375        735        855       915        840        885        885        885        885        885        885         885          885
A.I. Servie                              3             _           280        133        370        300        320       390        390        380        390        390         390        390          390
?archase/P.eplaceaant of a Btl Ut                      -             -          -          -        700         -          -          -        700          -          -           -        700            -
I,ard Ta                                 ES           60            60         60         60         60        60         60         60         60         60         60          60          60          60
Fwage Production /                       3E             -           no        220        333        440        550       880        880      1,100      1,100      1,100       1,100      1,100        1,100
Mieellanesoe including Repairs and
HaintAnce          Z$           200          400        400        S00        600        700        900     1,100      1,100      1,100      1,100       1,1M0       1,100        1,100
Total Operating Ocets                  5S         1,460        9,465    12,395    13,010    14,195    13,105         11,700    14,705    16,455    16,065    16,065         16,350      17,050      16,350
/ 200 1 per native calf and 400 1 per Friesian heifer calf.
2/  Price easeuptione int 3ES  ntive coil sow 60; Friesian cull cow 150; native in-calf heifer 70; Friesian in-calf heifer 800; ntive tarren heifer 60;  Friesian barren heifer 120; 9-24 wantbB old rative cattle 40;
native clf 20; Friesian bull calf 30; native call bull! steer 150 and Friesian coll bull 300.
2  One farm worker at %*$0 per annu..
For details ame Table S Annex ?7.
Veterinary services at IS per anil per ca ms.
Artificial inaemination at 3*10 per cow or heifer, including 2 repeat insesiamtons if necessary.
A/Jt Ea per ha.w
P rce assumptions for the establishmnt of 1 ha of mate and vetchea or broad beans or passa
(a) soil preparatlon and sowing      ,   3*25.00
(b) 100 kg of  iasonieso-ho.phate        Zt3836.50
(c) 50 kg of Or.                    E, 18.50
(d) Seed                             ,   3*30.00
TOTAL  ESI10.00



ADDIS ABLBA  DAIRY DEVBLPMENT PROJECT
editm  Size Farm Model - 40 Cows
Financias Pro'ections
-                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------------------------------------------------  Years ------------------------__________-- ___________-_
Before            1         2         3        4         5         6         7        8                   1'         ii        12      13-15
a             ITEM -                                      Developsent
'   Cash Inflow
Sale of Cattle                                       1,120           3,660    3,650    1,4iO    1,2Su    5,590         5,866   6,810    6,960    6,810        6,810      6,810    7,110    6,810
H       Sale of Milk                                          1,421          1,584   1L,52G   24,G24   22,176   22,572    26,716  26,58u   26,640   27,810    27,810    24,7,50   24,150   24,150
'°      Short-Term Loan                                         -           13,0U0   11,768    5,688    1,053          -          -       -         -         -          _          _         _         _
°       Long-Term Loan                                          -           26,2uu   15,500    1,506         -         -          -       -         -               _               -    _        _
Total                                             2,541         44,444   45,438   32,022   24,51>   32,162    32,656  33,390   33,600   34,620    34,62G    30,960   31,260   30,560
Cash Outflow
Investment: (a)  Farmer's Contribution                  -           10,800           -         -              -          -       -         -         -          -          -         -         -
(b)  Long-Term Loan                        -           26,200   15,500    1,50J        -         _                                            -               -         -         -
Operating Cost                                       1,460           9,465   12,395   13,010   14,195   13,485    14,700  14,705   16,455   16.065    16,065    16,350   17,050   16,350
Total                                            1,460         46,465   27,895   14,510   14,195   13,485    14,700  14,705   16,455   16j065    16,06.    16,350   17,050   16,350
Annual Cash Balance Before Debt Service                  1,081         (2,021)  17,543   17,512   10,324   18,677    17,956  18,685   17,145   18,555    18,555    14,610   14,210   14,610
Debt Service
Interest on Short-Term Loan 1/                          -              -       1,235    1,118       483       100        -        -         -        -          -          -         -         -
Amortization of Short-Term Loan                         -              -      13,000   11,768    5,o88    1,U53          -        _ -           -               -          -         -         -
Intereat on Long-Term Loan V                            -              -       2,227    3,545    3,672    3,672        3,060   2,448    1,836    1,224          612        -         -         -
Amortization of Long-Term Loan 3/                       -              -         -         -        -       7,200      7,200   7,2Gu    7,200    7,200        7,200        -         -         -
Total                                              -               -     _6,462   16,431    >,243   12,025    lu,26u    ,648    9,036    8,424            7,812        -         _         _
Annual Cash Balance After Debt Service                   1,081         (2,021)   1,681    i,081    1,081    6,652         7,726   9,037    8,109   10,131    13,743    14,610   14,210   14,610
Annual Incramental Cash Balance                                        (3,102)      -         -         -      5,571      6,645   7,556    7,.A8    9,05-         ,,662    13,529   13,129   13,529
Cumulative Incremental Cash Balancea                       -           (3,1u2)  (3,102)  (3,1u2) (3,102)    2,46j         9,114  17,070   24,098   33,148    42,810    56,339   69,468  110,055 4/
Annual Incremental Herd Value                              -           18,140   14,890       (500)  3,000      1,700        70O0       -         -         -          -         -         -         -
1/ 9.5% p.a.
2/  8.5% p.a. on the outstanding balance.
2/  Total tarm of 10 years including 4 years of grace.
4/  Cumulative incremental cash balance for year 15.                                                                                                                                                  1r



AWI3 ABfB3 DAt DKZ T MWET
small ram          - 10 GUIe_
Before            - - - - - -                              --- d of lear - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -                                   _
cT     T                              nlllTT       Deoerlnt             1         2          3         4          5         6          7          8         9         i9        11         12         13        14        15
N Native Stoek                                                                                                                       H1EDKFo8TO
1     Cowe                                          No.             5               4          4         5          1         -               -          -         -          -         -          -          -               _
n Io-Salf Reifera                                   so.             1               2          2         1
S     Calves                                        go.              3              2          -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -
Heifers 9-24 bonths                          No.              2               2         2          -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -        _-                               _
Bulla                                        go.              1               -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         _          _
Osme                                               No.              2               2         2          2         2          2         2          2          2         7          2         2          2         2          2         2
Sb-Total                                *o.             14              12        10          8         3          2          2         2          2         2          2         2          2          2         2          2
Ir,Ved Stock
cowo                                          Wo.             -               -         -          -         4          5          5         5          S         5          6          8         a          B         8          a
Tn-CalfStfHr                                 No.              -                         -          -         ?          2          2         2          2         ?          4         2          2          2         2          2
Heifer Calvea                                No.              -               ,          2         2          3         3          3         2          3          2         3          4         4          4         4          4
Hifars 9-24 llotb                            No.              -                          -         2          2         2          3         3          2          3         -          -         -          -
Sub-Total                                No.              -               -         2          4        U          12         13        12         12        12         13        14         1I4        14k       14         14
Tota aN*ers                              go.             14         _   12         12         12        14         lk         15        1k         14_       14         15        16         16         16        16         16
Total IM-1 A   D ts                      go.             11              10        10         10    1         1              12         12        1U         12         12        12         12        12         12        12
Totl Nxbere                              go.              4                         6          6         6          7          7 L7                 7         7          7        10         10         10        10         10
In-Calf Beaifws -Friesian x Zebu               go.              -               -          -         _          4         -                    _                     _         _          _         _          _         _
O,x_ __ __u _    ___  Jo.                                       -               -          1    _ .             -         1          1         -          -          1         1          _-        -          1         1          -
total N,ubw          -                   No.                                        I _        -         4          1          1               -              1          1         -          -         1          1
MMALI?7
Co"                                            No.              -               -         1          -          -         -          -         1          -          - I                  -         1          -         1          -
In-Calf Heifer,                                No.              _                          -         -          -         -          -         I1
Calves                                         No.              1               1         1          2          1         1          1         1          1          1         1          2         1          2         1          2
Hdier 9-24 Hoct.s                               No.             -               1          -         -          -         1               -          -               -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Total uNmbwe                             No.              1               2         2          2         1          2          1                    1         1          1          2         3          2         2          2
Oall am.                                       No.              1               2          1         1          51/       2          2         1          2          2         1          2         1          2          1         2
fn-talf Heifer,                                No.              -                          -                                                              _ -  -  -  -  -      -          1         1          1          2         1
DBrren  eifere                                  No.              -              -          -         1          -          -         -          -         1                    1                     -         1          -         1
Bull Cy,                                        Nogo.                           1          3         2          2         3          3         k          3          4         3          k5                   4          5         4
C0ue   Bu1le/0xw                               Ko.              1               1          1         -          -         1          1          -         -          1         1          -          -         1          1         -
Total. umbers                            No.              2               4          5         4          7         6          6          5         6          7         6          7         7          9          9         8
DUCT1M0 DATA
COcaptio Rate of Co-                             f             80              80         80        SO         80        85         85         85        85         85         87        87         87        87         87        87
Omnceptim Rate of Hfers                          %              90             90         90        90         90         90        90         90        90         90         90        90         90 9p                90         90
mortalitY
Adult                                         %5                             5          5          3         3          3         3          3          3         3          3         3          3         3          3          3
Heifer Calve.4                                B             20              20         20        20         20        20         20         20        20         20        20         20         20        20         20        20
BSu  Calves e                                 S             10              10         10        10         10        10         10         10        10         10        10         10         10        10         10        10
Covw Glling Rate                                 S             17              17         17        17         17        17         17         17        17         17        17         20         20        20         20        20
Barren Heifer Rat.                               t             10              10         10        10         10        10         10         10        10         10        10         10         10        10         10        la
Calving Interval                               Kmoth,          18              14         14        14         14        14         14         14        14         14        14         14         14        14         14        1k      1:
1/ Foor of these are in-calf.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ob
p    Includn  ati3-1-irtba.



E TH I O P I A
ADDIS ABRAA DAIR! DFVELODPIMT PROJECT
Small Farm Model - 10 Cows
Investment Costs and Financing
0
1o2                                                               3                                                      Total
C DITE                                 Units  Unit=oTota  Cost    Units  Unit Cost  Total Cost    Units  UJnit Cost Total Cost    Units  Unit Cost  Total Cost    Cost
On-Fann Investment
gf     Fencing                          700 m      0.80       560                               _                                 -         1400 m      0.80     1,120        1,680
Cowshed 1/                                             -                                -         0.25      600          150           0.75  600           450          600
Watering Facilities  /                              1,100                               -                                 -                                  -        1,100
Spray PMp                                                                               -         1         30           30                                 -30
Milk Cans (10 1)                                       _                                _-                                              6      25           150         150
Milking Buckets                                        -                                -                                 -            3       ?5           45           45
Small Equipment and Tools                              -                                -                                 -                                100          100
In-Calf Half-bred Heifers                              -                                -                                 -            4     35C         1,400        1,400
Contingencies (approx. 10 )                           140                               -                                 20                               335          495
Total Investment                                   1,800                                _                                200                             3,600        5,600
Finan¢ing
DDA Loan3/                                          1,500                                                                 200                             3,300       5,000
Famner's Contribution                                 300                                                                 _                                 300         600
1/ Cowshed size is 4 x 11 meters.
2/ For piping, water tank, water pump and trough.
3/ The Dairy Der'elopment Agency (DDA) loan is equivalent to 90% of the total
investment cost.                                                                                                                                                                  C



dYIlioptA
IIS 61AR6 DUN DE8OP1OT PEOJMOT
S11 ._0 MedeI - 10 3o.
Pro ectiopa of Ioneo  and Coerating G00te
°                                                 Se~~~~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~for-  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Yr _- - -_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ 
-          IlMIT                                    U3NiT         D-n:lp=ot               1          2                    4 b        5          6         7          8          S          10             11           12           13           '4           15
°MI-LK SiLES
Coec ir.  ilk- Thal                            MN.           3                      3          3          4          2         5          5          4         5          5          5               6            7            S            7            8
Go.    i NMilk -MatA.c                           Ih.         3                      3          3          4          2         1          -          -         -
Co- i. Nilk-F1                                  No.          -                      -          -          -          -         4          5          4         3          2          1               -            -            -            _
Coe in  ilk - F2                                N..                                                                            -          -          -         2          3          4               5            4            2            1
C"e ir ylk - 73/1l Mc.                                       -                      -          --                                                               -         - -                        1            3            6            6            8
Heifere iD Milk- T4t.i                          No.          1                      1          2          2          4         2                     2          2         2          2               4            2            2            2            2
lfeir  ir. tlk -ati-e                            No.         1                      1          2          2          -         --                              -                -                    -            -            -            -               '
Heifelr  i. Milk - F1                           No.          -                      -          -          -          4         2          2          -
Heifer. ir.  ilkk    2                           18o. .                             -          -          -          -         _          _          2          2         2          1               1            _            _            _            _
Eeifere in lilk -F3/F4                          No.          -                      -          -                                                                                                     3 _  _  _  _  _  _  1     2            2            2
Milk Yield per Cow -   ti                     I/ar,        ;0                    500         S0         500       500        500 Soo                                    -                                   -                  -            - _
Milk Tield per Cow.. P -1ye                                                                                                1 200      1,300     1,300      1,403      16C        i400
Milk Yield per Cov - F2                       l/yeax         _                      -                                                  ,          ,        1,400      1,500      1,602           1,600        1,700        1 ,00        1,700
Yilk Tield per Cow - FF4                      -/y.              _                   _                                                                       ,- ,                                 1,800        1,00          1900        2,00         2,0DO
Milk Yield per Heifer - Native                l/yer        400                    400        400        420          -
Milk Yield per Heifer - F1                                                                                -       900        goo      1,000                     -
Milk Yield par Hefer- 2                         Or           -- _                                         -          -         -          -     1,100      1,100      1,200      1 200           1,               --
Milk Yield per Reifer-  73/74                     -                     -                -           -         -          -          -         -                -         -      1,100           I               o         1,500        1,600        1,600
Total Milk Produotiot                         '01           19                    19          23         28        46         71        85         74         92         97        104             152          155          178          169          182
Nilk Pad toCelre./                             '00 1         6                      4          8          8         12        122        12.         8        12          8         12              16           16           t6           16           16
Milk fr hore  Coe,eaptioe                      '001          3                      3          3          3          4         4          4          4          4         4          6               6             6           6            6            6
Milk for Sale                                 '00 1         10                     12         12         17         30        55         69         62        76         85         86             130          133          156          167          170
ilUk Priee                                    2$/j.          0.25                   0.33       0.33       0.33       0.33      0.33       0.33       0.30      0.30       0.30       0.30            0.25         0.25         0.25         0.25         0.25
Total Milk Sale,                         9$           250                   396         396       561        990     1,815      2,277      1,860      2,260     2,550      2,580            3,250        3,325       3,900        3,675        4,250
CArTs  ASLAS  2/
Ctll COYS                                     B$            60                    120         60         60         60       180        240        120       240        240        120             2f0           120         240          120          240
Native In-cal.f Breding Co                                   -                      -          -          -       480                          -                -                            -
In-Ceif Heifero                               k'             _                      _          _          -          -         _          _          _         _          _          _             350          350          350          700          350
BerrenHeitere H5 i                                                                  - $                  60          -         -          -          -        80           -        80               -                       I 80                       80
Bull C;al   a                                 s$             -                    50          75         50         50        75         75        100        75        100         75             100          125          100          125          100
CMll B411,/Oaeo                               E$           150                    150        150          -          -       150        150          -          -       150        150               -            -          150          150            -
Total Cattle Sale.                       E$           210                   320         285       170        590        405       465        220        395        490        425             690          595          920        1,095          770
Total Inco=5                              $           460                   716         681       731      1,580      2,220     2,742      2,080      2,675      3,040     3,005            3,940        3,920        4,820        4,770        5,020
OPERATING COSUO
Feed Cots1/ V                                 E-                                    -         60        120        240       285        368        345        435       653        765              870          938        1.05           1103      1.200
Veteriaary- S-rviec                           2$             -                                 20        40        110       120        130        120        120       120        130              146         160           140         130           140
A.I. Service 5/                               5$             _                     60         70         70        110        90         90         80        100         90       120              130          120          ¶60         130           160
Replaceet o? Oe 6/                            s$             -                      -        150          -          -       150        i5o          -          -       150        150                -            -         150          150 
Led T- I/                                     8$            20                     20          20        20         20         20        20         20         20         20        20               20           20           20           20           20
Mi.cellan.oooc                                 8            50 5E                             50         50         80        80         80         80        100       100        100              i5o          150          150          150          150
Total Operating C.ota                    1*            70                   130         370        300       560        745        838        645       775      1,133      1,285           1,310        1,368        1,695        1,693        1,650
1/200 1 .per etie calf and  400 1  per ieproved heifer calf.
/P.1rioe amepti..o On i $: ea.tle eul1 eeu, .   60; improved cull -ou   1201 native in-calf brooding coo- 120; in-ealf orcee-bred heifer - 350;  otiee beaven heifer - 60; ijproed berren heifer - 80;
Obuclf - 251 ed .011 bIa1/o= - 150.
],or bet~1 ileec Tble S Racer 8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                wo
eiclery  terrieh*t SS  0 pr ieprftd tcital per  r.
frOitf l tt1iase ation at 11$ l0 per cow or heifer, including 2 repeat lest:dnations if  aceesary.
_        wriee t t2en  pr cxc -1150.
tAt 4 Iperb..



EThOPIA
AMDIS ARARA DAIRY DVELPXMNT POJECT
,Sm,ll Farm Model - 10 Cows
Financila Projiections
(Se)
--------------- Years  --------------------------------_________________________
ram                             Before        1      2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15
Development
Cash Inflow
Sale of Cattle                                 210       320    285      170      590     405      465       220     395      490       425      690     595      920   1,095       770
I.      Sale of Milk                                    250       396   396      561       990   1,815    2,277    1,860    2,280    2,550    2,580    3,250    3,325    3,900    3,695    4,250
'1      Short-Term Loan                                                   -        -                -       -        -             -            -        -        -        -        -        -
Log-rarm Loan                                   -      1,800     -       200   3.600       -        -        -       -        -         _ -               -       -        -        -
Total                                     460    2,516    913   1,297    5,180    2,220    2,742    2,080    2,675    3,040    3,005    3,940   3,920    4,820    4,790    5,020
Cash Outflow
Investments  Long-Term Loan                     -      1,800     -       200   3,600                                      -        -        -        -        -        -            -
Opeeating Cost                                  70       130   370      300       560     745      838      645      775    11133    1,285    1.310    1.368    1.695    1,693    1,650
Total                                      70    1,930    370       500   4,160       745     838      645      775    1,133    1,285    1,310    1,368    1,695    1,693    1,650
Annual Cash Balance Before Debt Service             390       586   543      797    1,020    1,475    1,904    1,435    1,900    1,907    1,720    2,630    2,552    3,125    3,097    3,370
Debt Service
Intereat on Short-Term Loan                          - _       _               22       35                            -                      -            -        -        -             -
Amortization of Short-Term    n                                              232      366-                                                       -            -        -        -
Interest on Long-Term Loan _                         _         _     153      153      170     476      439      398      354      306       255     199      138       72      -
Amortization of Long-Term Loan 3/                    _         -      -       -        -       439      476      517      561      609       660      716      777     845      -
Total                                      _         _    153       407      571      915      915      915     915       915      915      915      915      917      -        -
Annual Cash Balance After Debt Service              390       586   390      390       449      560     989       520     985      992      805   1,715    1,637    2,208    3,097    3,370
Annual Incremental Cash Balance                      -        196    -         -        59      170      599      130     595       602      415    1,325    1,247    1,818    2,707    2,980
Cumulative Incremental Cash Balance                           196   196       196      255      425   1,024    2,154    1,749    2,351    2,766    4,091    5,338    7,156    9,863   12,843W
Annual Incrasental Herd Value                        _       (190)   140      230    1,810       20      200    (100)   (100)       100      700      200      -        -        -
VY 9.5% p.a.
2/ 8.5% p.a. on the outstanding balance.
3/ Total term of 10 years including 4 yeara of grace.
/ Cumulative cash balance for year 15.                                                                                                                                                        C.



MANEX 9
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shola  DaiPlant - Technical Aspects
1.        The present value of Shola Dairy Plant is estimated at E$900,000,
comprising buildings, E$300,000: machinery and equipment, E$400,000; and
vehicles, E$200,000. Buildings have been financed by Government loan;
UNICEF has financed machinery, equipment and vehicles; and UNICEF and
FAO have provided scholarships and technical advisors. Table 1 shows
the amortization of the UNICEF loans, to be repaid in milk supplied to
selected groups of beneficiaries (such aa schools and hospitals) over a
10-year period, and projections of income and operating expenses of the
Plant.
2.        Shola's daily throughput in the peak season is expected to
exceed its 30,000-liter capability by Project years 4 or 5. Additional
investments are required and proposed for financing under this Project.
These investments (Table 2) have been determined in consultation with
the UNICEF Regional Office for East Africa.
3.        Machinery and equipment would represent more than half of the
proposed investments. Particularly important would be the installation
of a stand-by generator because of power breakdowns that occur occa-
sionally. In year 1 and in year 4, another 10,000-liter milk storage tank
would be needed, and in year 4 an additional bottling line. A bigger
milk separator would replace the old one in year 2 and a small plastic
bag filling unit would allow packaging of cream and other fresh milk
products. In year 5, the installation of an automatic butter wrapping
machine would be necessary. Equipment for extending milk stores and some
small installations for cheese production are needed for storage and pro-
cessing of an expected increase of unsold milk. Capital necessary for small
milk plant equipment would be E$8,000 in years 1, 2 and 3 and E$12,000 in
years 4, 5 and 6. More flexible distribution of milk and other dairy pro-
ducts would be made possible by installation of eight refrigeration units
in selected selling centers.
4.        Shola Dairy Plant lies about 5 km outside the capital.  Therefore,
housing for five key technicians near the plant would be required, espec-
ially for those working on double shift during the night. Shola needs
about 300 m of water Ser day, which at present comes from the public
supply at E$0.50 per m . To be independent of this fairly expensive and
often insufficient supply, the financing of a water supply for the plant



ANNEX 9
Page 2
is justified, especially as it would greatly reduce costs. In the course
of expanding milk collection and distrlbution, the number of collecting
and selling centers should be raised as proposed. During the Project's
duration, eight additional milk trucks and three minibuses would be
purchased. Replacement costs for vehicles are included in Shola's opera-
ting costs.
5.        Projection of income and operating costs of the Plant are shown
in Table 3.



EIHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shola Dairy Plant
Financial Prections
_  _______ Years-       ----                                                                 ~~~ ~~~
Before       1         2         3         4         5       6         7         8          9       10         11         12       13       14      15
Cash Inflow
Sale of Yilk and Butter                     1,563    2,888    3,851     4,814     6,161      7,124     8,087     8,196    8,893      9,416    9,765       9,061     9,373    9,686    9,998   10,311
Long-Term Loan from ADDC 1/                   -        279      110       109        198        56        57       -        -            -       _          _    -             -         - _
Total                                  1,563    3,167    3,961     4.923     6,359     7,180      8,144     8,196    8,893      9.416    9,765       9,061     9,373    9,686    9,998   10,311
Cash Outflow
Investment: Long-Term Loan                     -       279      110       109        198        56        57       -        -           -        -          -         -        -         -       -
Payment to Farmers for Milk                   986    1,807    2,409    3,011      3,8514    4,457      5,059     5,147    5,585       5,913    6,132      5,293     5,475    5,658    5,840    6,023
Operating Costs                               442      611      813        961     1,191     1,353     1,530     1,831    1,962       2,059    2.12lL     2,188     2.253    2.316    2.379    2j
Total                                  1,428    2,697    3,332     4,081     5,243     5,866      6,646     6,981    7,547      7,972    8,256       7,481     7,728    7,974    8,219    8,467
Annual Cash Balance Before Debt Service            135      470      629       842      1,116     1,314     1,498     1,215    1,346       1,4414   1,509      1,580     1,645    1,712    1,779    1,844
Debt Service
I. On Borrowings Before Takeover by DDA:
(a) UNICEF Loa
Interest -                            92       82       73        64         55        46        36        27       18           9       -
Amortization                         115      115      115       115       115        115       115       115      115         110       -
(b) GoversuIne/Loan
Interest -                            28       25       22        20         17       114        11         8        6           3       -          _         _        _         _       _
Amortisation                          35       35       35        35         35        35        35        35       35          35       -
II. On Borrowingsa r5er Takeover by  L0A:
Interest                          _  -         -        24        33         42       59         64        60       45          30       15
Amortization of Long-Ter Joan-4/      -        -        -          -         -         -        109       175       175        175      175         -         -        -         - -
Total                      270      257      269       267       264       269       370        420      394        362       190                   -        -        -
Annual Cash Balance After Debt Service            (135)     213      360        575       852     1,045     1,128       795       952      1,082    1,319      1,580     1,645    1,.;2    1,779    1,844
Annual Incremental Cash Balance                     -       348      495        710       987     1,180     1,263       930    1,087       1,217    1,454      1,715     1,780    1,847    1,914    1,979
Cumulative Incremental Cash Balance                 -       348       843     1,553     2,540     3,720     4,983     5,913    7,000       8,217    9,671     11,386    13,166   15,013   16,927   18,906
1/ Shola Dairy Plant is part of the Dairy Development Agency (DDA), therefore, this is an internal loan.
2/  8.0% p.a. on outstanding balance.
'5/ 8.5% p.a. on outstanding balance.
JT/ Total term of 10 years including 5 years of grace.
IT
Noveemher 12, 1970



E T 0 I O P I A
ADDIS ABAEtA nIR1 fLV9.OPM! PFRWT
Shola DLiry Plsat
Pr,,3oti0 of 1nS s, l   d Op-tigx Costs
X                                               2dore      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --------------_-----------___-------_------___------------------------------_-- Y-     -------------- --------------.----------------------------------------------______    _____:_
£                    ITEM                             UIIIT    Dpopeat              1         2          3          4           5         6           7          8          9          1          11          12          13          14          15
-     SAL3 OF DIMU  PRODUCTS
,.      lfk Th,ghpt por  y                           000 1           10              15         20         25         32         37         42         47         51         54         56          '3          60          62           64         66
J       IYlk R8t,tl Prtcn                           8$ par 1          0.40            0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.45       0.45       0.45       0.45        j.40        0.40        0.40         0.40        0.40
0 S..8 of c 1 MI/                           000 Et       1,453           2,724      3,632      4,540      5,811      6,719      7,627      7,681      8,335      8,825      9.152      8.26         8,716       9,007       9,297       9,588
51,, of 14ttmr-                            '000 38         l1              164        219        27h        350        405        460        515        558        591        613         635         657          679         701         723
9ctsl Tn0,G. '000 E5                                   1,563           2,888      3,851      4,814      6,161      7,124      8,087      8,196      8,893      9,46       9,765       9,061        9,373        e'.6       9,998      10,311
OP2RJTINO COSTS
L'rlect Cost of Pr   s1rg1                 000 PS         146             219        292        365        467        540        613        686        745        788        818         847         876          905         934         964
Tranwport of                               'Om Z $000       91             137        183        228        292        338        383        429        465        493        511         529          548         566         584         602
Yffrkstig Co.teg'   a                       000 8$          55              82        110        137        175        203        230        257        279        296        307           .8        329          339         350         361
Ad.instratire Ios *rd Sa.riesw             8000 F$          54              60         65         70         75         75         75         75         75         75         75           75          75          75          75          75
Printing, 8tationary, Tsep6o,pc             000 E$           8               9          9         10         10         10         10         10         10         10         10          10          10           10          10          10
Rsplacesst of CfirT Pla5 snd Lbsbor tory
Yadinscey and lquisetsf                  '000 E3          -               -          -          -          -          -          -         130        130        130         130         130         130         130         130         130
Raplacoent of Mlk Trcks'7/                  000 E$          48              48         80         64         64         64         80         80         80         80         SO          80           80          80          80          80
Contt.gendna (approx 10%)E/                :000 E$          40              56         74         87        108        123        139        167        178        187        193         199          205         2..         216         222
Sob-Total                                '000 E$         442             611        813        961      1,191      1,353      1,530      1,834      1,962      2,059      2,124       2,188        2,253       2,316       2,379       2,444
Payent to Fa-cer, for Milk                 0ooo E$         986           1,807      2,409      3,011      3,854      4,457      5,059      5,147      5,585      5,913      6,132       5,293        5,475       5,658       5,840       6,023
70tal Op-rotlig Costs                     000 Z$       1,428           2,418      3,222      3,972      5,045      5,810      6,589      6,981      7,547      7,972      8,256        7,481       7,728       7,974       8,219       8,467
I/ At s 6 per 4.
2-/ Process..g cost,  ocldiog dcp-oooation, is 8$ n.04 per 1 of m:Lk.
3/ fronport cost, escludlo  deprsdato23,n, is 8$ '^^5 p-r 1 of nilk.
/ 9$ 60.015 pcr 1 of rilk.
I/ Includes cis]k. of milk -c1o1.tiag cnnters.
6/ Appro-stcly 10% of diry plant and loborotory -.chios,7 and npipae-t.
7  At s$ 16,0-0 per mlk t-ock.
/ Iaclodes s,intemnice of buildings and silk coIlectitg centers.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
ADDBS ARABA fA    DSEV7LOPMENT PROJET
Total
ITEM                                   Unit!Cost           1           2          3           4          5           6           Cost
Milk throuihput per Day ('000 1)                                          15          20         25          32         37          42
Investment
(a)  BdreadConstructionl
(a)          ea8                                               (5) 40          -          -           -          -           -         (5) 40
New Milk Collecting Centers                  5               (8) 40     (4) 20      (4) 20         ,                               (16) 80
Replacement of TeMporary
Centers                                    5               (4) 20      4) 20          ,          ,           _          _         (8) 40
Milk Selling Oanters                         0.6             (5) 3       5   3                 ( (5)  3        -      (5)  3       (20) 12
Water (borehole)                            18               (1) 18         -           -                                           (1) 18
Sub-Total                                                   121          43          20          3          -           3           190
Refrigeration Units  or
Selected Selling Centers                   6               (2) 12     (2) 12      (2) 12     (2) 12          -           -        (8) 48
Laboratory Bquipment                         1                    1          1           1          1           1           1            6
Milk Plant Equipsent                                              8          8           8         12          12          12           60
milk Storage Tank (10,000 1)                25               (1) 25         -           -      (1) 25          -           -        (2) 50
Stand-by Eleotric Generator                 40              (1) 40          -           -       -                                   (l1 40
Milk Separator                               9                   -      (i) W                 -         _      _                    (1   9
Plastic Bag Filling Unit                     3                   -      (1)  3          -          _           _          _         (1)  3
Conversim Parte for
Peateurising Machii                        2                   _      (1)  2          -          -           -          -         (1)  2
Bottling Line                             105                    _                            - -  (1)105            -              (1)1o5
Automatio Butter Wrapping
Machine                                   16                   -          -           -          -       (1) 16          _        (1) 16
Equipsent for Extending
the Milk Store                            10                              -       (1) 10         -           -           -        (1) 10
Cbheee Vat                                   3                   -          -           -          -           -      (1)  3        (1)  3
Air-Condition for Cheoee Store               1                  _           _                                  -      (1)  1        (1)  1
Xilk Can. (50 1)                             0.03          (160)  5   (200)  6   (200) 6   (200)  6   (200)  6   (200)  6    (1160) 35
Sub-Total                                                     91         41          37        161          35          23          388
(o) Vehioles
(R°uoks                                     16               (2) 32     (1) 16      (2) 32     (1) 16      (1) 16      (1) 16       (8)128
Minibus                                     10              (1) 10                  (1) 10         -           -       (1) 10       (3) 30
Sub-Total                                                     42         16          42         16          16          26          158
Sub-Total                                                                254         100         99         180         51          52           7S6
Contingencies (anproximatelyr 10%)                                        25          10         10          18           5          5            73
Total Investment                                                         279         110        109         198         56          57           809
Financingz-
DDA  Loan                                                              279         110        109         198         56          57           809
.1/ In the bodcy of the Table the figures in brackets represent the number of units of the item in question purchased in that year.
j/ The Dairy Development Agency (DUa) Loan is equivalent to 100% of the total investment cost.
Noveber 12, 1970



ffBOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DlIu DEVIIORW P10JET
Phasing of the Len,ding Prw.m
Phasine of Investmernt and Finncing                                     Number and Phasing of Loan Ca,.tments
(E$ 1000)
- - - -             - - - - Teare - - - - --                                           -              -Years - - - - - -         - - - - - - - - -
ITEM                  1         2         3         4         5         6         Total           1         2         3         4         5         6         Total
Inveutment
Snall Dairy Farms            27       176       232        74       378       457         1,344          15        98       127         -         -         -           2I0
Medium Size Dairy Farms   1,480     1,619     1,218     1,201       387        35         5,940          40        27        20        2          _                     110
Private Cross-Breeding
Ranches                   138        92         -         _-                  -           230           3         2         -         -         -         -             5
Honleta Dairy Stud Fam,      37         -         -         -         -         -            37           1         -                                                     I _  -  _  1
DDA Investment in
Abermossa                 250         -         -         -         -         -           250           1         _         _         _         _         _             1
Shola Dairy Plant           279       110       109       198        56        57           809           1         _-                            -                       I
S&b-Total               2,211     1,997     1,559     1,473       821       549         8,610          61       127       147        23         -         -           358
Costa of Technical
Adini4strative Services     g9o     1,020       960       790       710       690         5,080        n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.         n.a.
Total                   3,121     3,017     2,519     2,263     1,531     1,239        13,690          61       127       147        23         _         _           358
Financing of Investment
Farirs                      460        10       216       248         -         -         1,234
DDA                         347                 372       403       412 Y     423           52
Goverzment                  200                   -         -         -                     200
IBED/mA.                  2,11h    2,412      1,931    .1,612     1,119       816        10,004
Total                   3,121     3,017     2,519     2,263     1,531     1,239        13,690
The Government contribution to investment of E$ 200,000 is a loan in kind ( cattle ) to  DDA for cattle for Abernossa Cross-Breeding Ranch.                                      10
n.a.- not applicable.
%o.ver 12, 1970



ANNEX 11
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELMPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA ---edit
- - - - Estimated - - - -
Amount           Balance
Project            End of                   Disbursed           of Credit
Year             Quarter                        ---- US$OOO ---------
1                  0                         0                 h,400
1                       150                4,250
2                      400                 4,ooo
3                      690                 3,710
4                       990                3,410
2                  1                     1,270                 3,130
2                    1,550                 2,850
3                    1,830                 2,570
4                     2,110                2,290
3                  1                     2,331                 2,069
2                    2,552                 1,848
3                    2,773                 1,627
4                     29994                1,406
14                 1                     3,153                 1,248
2                    3,311                 1,090
3                    3,470                    932
4                    3,628                    772
5                  1                     3,740                  660
2                    3,852                    548
3                    3,964                    436
4                    14,076                   324
6                  1                     4,157                   243
2                    14238                   162
3                    4,319                     81
4                     4,hoo                     0
November 12, 1970



ADDIS ABAPA DAli! 3VWEHDEW PROJECT
Dairy Develovaent nauey (MA)
Tecbnical and Administrative Staff Nauqdrents 
--- --                   --Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
o                                         1                         2                         3                           4                           5                          6
FH  CATE3ORY                      Nuer    Wit Cost         Nwmber  lunit Ue*t         NwAber   Unit Coat          Number     Unit Coet        Number    Unit Cost        Number     unit Cost
(0   E$)                 (000 E$)                   (000 S$)                     (000) .)                   (000 E$)                    (ooE Es)
Oenral Manater               1          25             1          25             1           25             1             25             1            25            1            25
Lowyer                       1          12             1          12             1           12             1             12             1            12            1            12
PRWOCTIIN DIVISION
Production Nanager /         1         100             1         100             1          100             1            100             1           100            1           100
Asistant Production
Nanager                    -            -            -           -              -           -             1             12             1            12            1           .12
Ve.   a'd (Disease
cOirnol) Y                 1          80             1          80              1          80             -              -             -             -             -            -
eterinaran (Disease
Control)                   -           -             1          12             1           14             1             14             1            14            1            14
Artificial                   1          80             1          80             -            -             -              -             -
Artificial Insenation        1           7             1           7              1           8              1             8             1              8           1            8
specialit              2
Dary Devel)pmst  0fficarS                -             1          80             1           80             1             80
DuiryDevelpAmt, cfioer    2              8             2           8              3           8             3              8             3            10            3            10
Veter?ne7 Assiatsats         1            7            2           7              3           7              3             7             4             8            4             8
Dairy  tendon Officers       -           -             1           7              2           7             4              7             5             8            6             8
Principal, Farmers'
Training Center            1            7            1           7              1           7              1             7              1            7             1            7
Inseminatore                 2           3             4           3              7           4             7              4             7             4            7             4
FINANCIAL DIVISION
Financial mnager I           1          100            1         100              1         100                                          -                    -
Finan.rial uager             _-                        -            -                   -                    1            1                            5             1           15
Assistant Financial Manager 1            12            1          12              1          12              -             -              -            -             -
Chef Accountant              1          12             1          12              1          12              1            12              1           12             1           12
Loan officers                2            7            3           7              3           7              3            A8              3            8             3            8
Accouts Clerke               3            5            4           5              4           5              4             6              4            6             4            6
PEOCESI    & NLFINO DIMSION
Processing & Nartting
Manager                    1           15            1          15              1          15              1            15              1           15             1           15
MISC]IANEOUS
Drivers                      4            2            4            2             4           2              4             2              4             2            4            2
Mewermployees                5            3            7           3              8           3             10             3             10            3            10            3
1/    ept for the Marketing & Processing Manager all staff of Shola Dairy Plant and Holleta Dairy Stad Farn are excluded frmn this table.
IntaernatonaJ.y recruited personnel.



ITa1OPIA
ADDIS ADA DM1 fLIOPST  PRojECT
1Rir Dovekpment Agency (DDA)
Coeta Of Tebhial and ksraIstrative Services 1/
- - - years- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                      - - - - - - - - - - -r- Years- - - - - - - - - - - -
CA7StoRr                       1       2          3         4          5         6        Total                          1         2        3         4         5         6        Total
E0s W( US I000 Equi)v.
Foreian zc143nae Costs
DDA Technical and Ajsinis-
trative staffrr/           349.o     446.0      374.0     162.0        90.0     90.0     1,511.0                       139.6    178.4    149.6       64.8    36.o        36.o      604.4
Travol                        25.0      25.0       5.0          -          -         -        55.o                        10.0      10.0      2.0         -       -           -       22.0
TranD ort Vehicles 3/         63.0C/    18.0       10.0      14.0          -         --      1o5.o                        25.2       7.2      4.0       5.6       -           -       42.0
opernting Ccats of Transport
Vehicloo _W                 32.0      43.0      47.0       63.0       63.0      6g o       31t 10.8                               17.2      1B.8     25.2    25.2        25.2       124.4
Tehoica. Egqtdpment           15.0       9.0       6.o        6.o        6.0      6.0           :                          6.0       3.c      2.4       2.4      2.4        2.4       19.2
Offico Eqcisment              15.0       5.0         -          -          --        -        20.0                         6.o       2.0        -        .-       -           -        8.0
Semen and Liquid Nitrogen     14.4      33-3       52.0      59.2       63,8      66.5       289.0                         5.7      13.3      20.8     23.      25.5       26.6       115.6
Training Center Equipmect      5.0         -         -          -          -         -         5.0                         2.0         -        -         -       -           -        2.0
Offiac  E    ,2enMA            5.-       5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        30.0                         2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0       12.0
Field Studies5/              15.0      40.0       40.0      40.0        4o.o     15.0        190.0                        6.o      16.0      16-o      16.^    16.0        6.0        76.0
Contingencioal>approX. 10%)    61.6     60.7      48.5       38.3       29.8      22.1       261.0                        24.7      24.3     19.4      15.3    11.9         8.8      104.4
subtotal                   600.0     685.0     587.5      387.5      297.6    267.6      2,825.0                       240.0    274.0    235.o    155.0   119.0         107.0    1,130.0
Local Cofst
DDA Technical apd Admifla-3
1;atit7e Staff 21          185.o     243.0      278.0     302.0       323.0    331.0    t1662.0                         74.0      97.2    111.2    120.8   129.2        132.4      664.8
Transport Vehicles            27.0       7.0       5.0        6.o          -         -        45.0                        10.8       2.8      2.0       2.4       -           -        18.0
Operating Cocts of Transport                                                                                               4
Vebiolon                    12.0      13.0      17.0       13.0       13.0      13.0        81.0                          .8       5.2      6.8       5.2      5.2        5.2       32.4
Teebnical EquLpment            5.0       3.0       2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0        16.o                         2.0       1.2      0.8       0.8     0.8         0.8        6.4
Offico Nqtzp±nt               15.0       5-0         -          -          -         -        20.0                         6.o       2.0        _-                -           -        8.0
Semen and Liquid Nitrogen      1.6       3.7        3.0       3.7        4.2       4.8        21.0                         o.6       1.5      1.2       1 .5    1.7         1.9        8.4
~Triing Center Equipmeat       7.0         -          -         -           -        -          7.0                         2.8        -         -        -        -          -         2.8
Offioc Expenses                5.0       5-0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        30.0                         2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0        12.0
Rent for DTilding             15.0      15-0      15.0       15.0        15.0     15.0        90.0                         6.o       6.o      6.o       6.o      6.o        6.o        36.0
Field Sgudics                 10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0        60.0                         4.0       4.o      4.o       4.o     4.o         4.o       2o.0
Contingencies (approx. 10%)    27.4     30.3      37.5       45.7       40.2      41.9       223.0                        11.0      12.1      15.0     18.3    16.1        16.7       89.2
Subtotal                   310.0     335.0      372.5     402.4       112.4    122.6      2,255.0                      164.o    134.0    149.0    161.0   165.0         169.0      902.0
Total Coots                    910.0   1,020.0      960.0     790.0       710.0    6so.o      5,080.0                      364.o    408.0    384.0    316.0   284.0         276.0    2,032.0
y/ Holleta Dairy Stud Farm and Shola Dairy Plant arm excluded from this table.
2/ Irncludig p25,000 in year 1  and E$ 50,000 in each of the years 2 a2Wd 3 for technieal serrices :v rdlc marketing and processing.
J Purch1c of 7 jeeps and 4 sall cars in year 1, 2 jeeps and 1 small car in year 2, 1 jeep and 1 siall car in year 3, and 1 jeep and 2 small cars in year 4.
/  AssuAing 20,000 km per jeep per annus 0 200 per km, and 40,000 km per small car per annum S 100 per km.
/ 3acntia.137 research on grassland and forage crop production.                                                                                                                               r °
Exeluding the salary of the Marketing and processing Manager, which is included under Shola Dairy Plant.



ANNEX 3
Table3
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Development Agency (DDA)
Breakdown of Costs of Technical and Administrative Services
DDA         Veterinary 4ad  Technical
CATEGORY                    Administration   A.I. Services   Services    Total
-     -E$!OOO - - - - - - - - - --
Salaries                              545              801             1,827      3,173
Travel                                   5              15                35         55
Vehicles                                 5              45               100       lo
Vehicle Operating Costs                 6              130               256        392
Technical Equipment                      -              22                42         64
Office Equipment                        ho                -                _         40
Semen and Liquid Nitrogen                              310                 _        310
Training Center Expenses                 -               -                12         12
Office Expenses                         60                -                 -        60
Rent for Buildings                      90                -                _         90
Field Trials and Demonstrations          -                -              250        250
Contingencies                           79             140               265        48
Total                             830            1,463             2,787     5,080
November 12, 1970



ANNU 12
EMKIOPIA                                                         T%b'i 4
ADDIS ABABA DAIR D1UWLFAMT FBtU  !
D irY D.velopt Ageacy (DDA)
piretal F!deetl 
----------------------------------------------------______________    ProAv:     Y    -   -----------~- ~------------------------------- ------------------------------
1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10      11      12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20
CASH  ii1W
Prar JDA Credit fo,
De,el.o.nt of DDA Fa                90     78--          -      -         -_-_                     . _                            -       _       -       -       _       _       _
Sh.l. Dairy Plnt                   279    110   109    198    56    57    _         _      _      _       _       _               _       _       _       _       _       _       _
Adeini.t0.ti-o/T.,hnIcal
Servmic   Cost                   298    315   282    P32   213    182
Fo,.I,v C00t. of 0.1.-00.   c  i/ 302   372    306   1I5        85    85
S9b-Tatal                  969    865    697    595   354   324
5oflnmlt Lo-.0 to P-rchute
Ab..Do... Cattl,                 200          -- -                                                                      -       -       -               -       -       -       -
10n. for Workirg CapttOl             189   145    112-                                                             -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Soroic. Ch-,g. -. D.iry L-,a
by AIDS t 2%:                      -       25    5i      84   106   122    129   123    114   102          88      74      59      44      30      18      19       4       1
Inet fro-
Arti1ia.l In-1n -t-on 9-rojo.    13    32        48    55    60       64    62      63     65    67       69      75      75      75      75      75      75      75      75      75
OcteflOary bor40,ic                 23     53    79    108   128    142    146   145    145    145        146     148    150      150     150     150     150     150     150     150
Cottle 001., eo bberno,,a           74     64    57      98    153   137    137   333
C.lh SOopl0. f00.:
Ho11.t ralry Stud F-a              _      _      _      _                            23     33    33       80      80      80      80      80      80      00      80      80      80
Shol. Dairy naDt                   470   629   942  1,116  1,314 1.498  1.215  i.346  1.444  1.509  1.580  1.645   1,712   1,779  1.884   1,884  1,84   1,884   11884   1.884
T.t.1 C6.h Inflo.                    1,937  1,813  1,993  2,046  2,115  2,287  1,689  2,033  1,801  1,856   1,963   2,722   2,076   2,128   2,219   2,207   2,208   2,193   2,190   2,189
CASE OUTFWW
OnoestIteot or
'IDA P-                             90 78 -                    - _                                                                                -  _  _  _  _
Ahol. 2nlry PIant                 279    110    129    198    56       37    _      _      _      _       _       _       _       -       _       _       _       _       _       _
Qora-lr, C..,.
Adi,lnior0-tleTerob.10  08-D-eo  910  1,020    960    0 7    7o    690    6670   67       640   670      670     670    740      740     740     740     740     740     740    740
Ab.rno--.  P-1,                     95    55    52    66        6       1     60    49           _  _     -       -       _       _       _       _       _       _       _ 
8ub_tot.1                1,374  1,263  1,121  1,254    831   788    730    ng    640   670        670     670     740     740     740     740     740     740     740     740
Debt Seroice
nt re, t.00:
Pu.dM  C,0, tDA C-rdit, -. e 1/2%    -     43     75    101    129    146    162    159    153   145      135     123     110      96      82      68      55      41      27      14
Ioee fror Wo-ling Capltel at
9 1/2%                           -       18    i4    11-                                 -      -          - _  _      _       _       _       _
I-.0, to Purcha-e Abe-tosa
Cat ]r*t6  /29                   -       13     13    13      13     13     13    13    -       -       -       -       -       -       -               -       -
Repoynefl ar:
fPnd, frr IDA Credit       ---48    85    119   157                                                       184     211     211     210     211     210    211      211    210      211
Loan. fr.  Wo-king Capital         -      189   145    112                                                                                                                
L-a. to Paroahe Alorno- o C.ttle -                                                          0         -         -       -        - -  -  -   -           -       -
Total C--h Outflo.                   1,374  1,525  1,368  1,291    943   949    953    976  1,112    972      989  1,004   1,061   1,046   1,033   1,018   1,006      992    977       965
C-ah B2l-D:, 400Cr 2f40 SD-rtio        563    288    525    755  1,172  1,340    736  1,057    689   884      974   1,718   1,015   1,092   1,186   1,189   1,202   1,201   1,213   1,224
Coot of Loppinig-p -op.trlate tpocielit. .alrDo  -ad other cnolr ,.t.  .re Cot repaid by ADDC to 0G-.ene*t.
Jar- 15, 1971



ETHIOPIA
ADD!S ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
FNNIAL DIVISION          llPRODUCTION DIVISION                                                                                                          |IRCESNG 3. MARKETING DIVISION
F~ ~~~~O  -N                             J m       a FARMIIA TEHIA               aNTX                8                      2MK4Ir    -
z
z
3<



ANNEX 14
ETHIOPIA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Marketing and Prices in Addis AbaIba
1.        At the end of 1968, the population of Addis Ababa was estimated at
about 685,000. of whoin.i about 45,000 were foreigners, Q,' being European.
Population growth over the period 1961 to 1968 was estimated at 6.2% per
annum, with natural growth accounting for 2.2% and immigration 4.0%.  This
rate of growth is expected to continue for some years.
Milk uSIppl
___y
2.        Milk is supplied to the Addis Ababa market through three channels:
(a)  the Dairy Development Agency (DDA), an autonomous agency which
has taken over the assets of the Addis Ababa Dairy Industry
(AADI), a section of the Ministry of Agriculture, which operated
a milk collection,processing and marketing system;
(b)  approximately 10 large dairy farms that sell milk direct
to consumers and retailers; and
(c)  at least 400 hawkers selling small quantities of milk.
3.        AADI was established in 1966 and it took over a milk plant with
a capacity of 10,000 liters per day, built in 1962 with UNICEF assistance.
Again with UNICEF aid, the Shola Dairy Plant was completed in 1969 with a
capacity to pasteurize and bottle 30,000 liters of milk per day.
4.        A system of milk collection has been built up since 1961 within
a radius of 130 kmi of Addls Ababa on three main roads. Development of this
system is shown in the following table:
No. of Collecting         Total Milk    Average Milk per Center
Year           Centers             _terj/day) _          (liters/day)
1961              5                     155                  31
1962              6                     590                  98
1963            15                    1,140                  76
1964             16                   2,400                 150
1965            15                    2,025                 135
1966             24                   1,850                  77
1967            29                    3,020                 104
1968             32                   4,060                 127
1969             32                   4,350                 136



ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        In addition to milk from these centers, DDA po>zahabes daily
an average of about 4,000 liters of milk from about 30 large dairy farms and
500 to 1,200 liters, which is delivered to the Shola Plant by the Chilalu
Agricultural Development Unit. Growth in milk througlput of the system
now operated by DDA is shown below:
Milk
Year         ('000 liters)       IncreaLe, %
1961               288                 -
1962               466               61.8
1963               669               43.6
1964             1,081               61.6
1965            1,168                 8.0
1966            1,236                 5.8
1967            1,854                50.0
1968            2,481                33.8
1969            3,070                23.7
6.        In 1969 value of sales of dairy production by AADI were:
pasteurized milk, E$1,077,000 (US$430,800); butter, E$146,000 (US$58,400);
cheese, E$10,000 (US$4,000); and cream and yoghurt, E$4,000 (US$2,400).
The bulk of the butter and cream is derived from the reduction of fat
content of milk to 3%. Unsold milk. which represents a very small pro-
portion of intake, is converted into cheese.
7.        As can be seen from the following figures, AADI experienced
sharp seasonal fluctuations in milk supply:
1967          1968           1969
-'000 liters               
Total Milk Collections       1,853.6        2,480.6        3,069.9
Average Milk per day           5.1            6.9            8.5
Average Milk per day:
Lowest Month                3.2 (Feb.)    4.9 (May)       5.9 (April)
flighest Month              7.9 (Oct.)    9.5 (Sept.)  11.7 (Oct.)
8.        No reliable data are available on output and sales of the 10
large commercial farmers selling milk outside the AADI/DDA system. However,
the manager of AADI estimated that in 1969 their sales totaled about 3,300
liters per day with a range from 50 liters for the smallest producer to
900 liters each for the two largest.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
9.        In a study on the Addis Ababa market for dairy products, dated
October 1969, the Batelle Advisory Group Technical Agency carried out a
survey of marketing of milk by hawkers in September 1969. The survey
covered 399 hawkers who purchased milk from about 1,500 farmers for sale
in Addis Ababa. Total milk sales were 4,050 liters per day, of which
3,180 liters were purchased from farmers and 870 liters were produced by
the hawkers' own cows.
Milk Prices
10.       Until late 1970, AADI paid small dairy farmers E$0.25 (US$0.10)
per liter for milk delivered to collecting centers. To the larger dairy
farmers, it paid E$0.28 to E$0.30 per liter, depending on the distance from
the Plant and method of delivery. It retailed milk at E$0.40 per liter
through 41 selling booths in the city. It has one selling center, equipped
with refrigeration, that operates throughout the day. The remaining centers
operate only from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. daily. Demand for milk from MADI at E$0.40
per liter exceeded supply and a system of rationing to individual consumers
was imposed. However, it is estimated that one-third of AADI's sales was
to retailers and owners of milk bars, through which milk is resold at much
higher prices.
11.       The prices obtained by the large commercial farmers selling
outside the AADI/DDA system are generally in the range of E$0.45 to E$0.50
per liter. These farmers supply supermarkets and hotels, which have a
regular demand for milk for resale to the higher income groups. In the
supermarkets, unpasteurized fresh milk sells at E$0.75 per liter, sterilized
milk from Asmara at E$1.30 per liter and ultra-high temperature milk from
Kenya at E$1.60 per liter. AADI was unable to capture any part of these
markets because it did not have sufficient milk to guarantee supply in
addition to supplying its own selling booths. The Batelle survey found
that the average price paid by hawkers to farmers was E$0.25 per liter
while selling price was E$0.40 per liter.
12.       In late 1970, AADI increased the retail price of its milk from
E$0.40 to E$0.50 per liter and its average price to producers from E$0.28
to E$0.33 per liter. At this price, it is expected that DDA will be able
to induce more commercial farmers to sell to it rather than delivering their
milk to Addis Ababa. At the same time that it increased the retail price of
whole milk, AADI commenced selling reconstituted milk, made from imported
milk powder at a price of E$0.28 per liter.
Demand for Milk and Dairy Products
13.       Although milk throughput of the AADI milk collection and market-
ing system has increased more than tenfold from 1961 to 1969, there has
been no difficulty in marketing virtually all of the milk available. Large
queues at AADI's selling booths and the fact that it has had to impose



ANIJX 14
Page 4
rationing of its output indicate that larger quantities z!Ji1A be,eold at
present prices.  Average jals f01om Saptmber -though Deaember 1969 were
of the order of 11 ,400 liters by A4DI and total sAles were probably a.4out
25,000 liters per day.
14.       In addition to fresh milk sales, ;here are fairly large sales
of milk powder.  Imp.orts to ftbiopia were just .under 2,000 tons ln 1967,
the last year for dbich figures could be obtained.  At a convewsin rate
of 6 liters of renonsAttute.d ntlk -per kg -of powder, this waould be aquivalent
to an average of about 55,000 liters per day, casting E$0.55 to E.$1 .20 per
liter at re-tail prices charFgad li Addis Ababa. A large :proportSnfl  f this
-milk powder is purchased by fo=Uzers s1xth 4h ;iucomes U74,ug u;Adi
Ababa because they are unable *So btab    A ,a  V4Ar Aupply .of p4e;tetgrized
milk.



ADDIS A.UL  MD¢II 231 P   XOJES'l
Ploeial Rate, of Retem ta Frivately Osod rez,,tt
ITUS                                       01#TU    1          2        3         4        5        6                        _9 _        O        11       12       13        14      IS
Med:k= sine fta 1 1oe ~-W 1g40 3
unoweuntal Milk r1s1ao                      '001       (1)      391      67T       623      635      7e3       837        '      e, E'              91e r7   917       917      917     917
!nD antal llk                                3$e^.  2  (33)  12,903   22,407   20,559   20,955   25,172   25,110   05,179   06j ll4  26,3340   22Z925   22 925   22,925  22,925  22,925
Xoarzeuntal Cattlett Slam                     $    2,540      2,530      290       170    8,4Wo    4.740    5,6so    5, 91i   ,jrc    5,690    5,690    5,690    5,690    5,69o  31,120)]
ktb-Total                               E3    2,507    15,433   22,697   20,729   29,1425   29,919   30,800   31,010   32,30Y   32,030   28,615   28,915   28,615   28,615  54a,045
etaotmnt cos1ts                                              I          , r10 I i2   - 15- 0
Ilnravutol 09.rfttiog Coat,                  14        8,c5    10,935   21,550   12,735   12,025   13,210   13,2145   114,995   14,605   14,605  1l4,890   15,590   14,890   1,890  14,890
Dmtersst on Short-Term  Dobt                 as       -       1,235    l,118       483      l00      -       ---
Sub-Ttol                                0$  lt5,005    27,670  314,168   13,218   12,125   13,210   13,2145   30,99r  11 r 6c5  14,605   214,890   15,590   14,890   114,890  14,9
Not loremntal Cash -Flor                      3$  (142,498)  (12,237)   8,529    7,511   17,300   16,709   17,555   16,015   17,4.25   17,1A25   13,725   13,325   13,725   13,725  39,155
2lneWnial Rate of Return,  20.1%
gM11  an,r  Dairy Devei.aopmet odel=- 10 Covw
,o,,,fits
imoremsntal lilk4 Prod.,ctio,,              '00 1       2         2        7        20       45       59        52       66        75       76      120       123      146      137     160
Inr.,msotal 0l81k Production                 B$       66         66      231       660    1,1485    1,947    1,560    1,980    2,250    2,280    3,000    3,075    3,650    3,425  I4,000
Cormuntal. Cattle Sai.or                     F7      110         75      (35)      380      195      255        10     15        280      215       480      385      710      885  3,6701/
Sub-Total                               B3      176        11,1     196    1,0140    1,68O    2,202    1,570    2,165    2,530    2,495   3,1480    3,460    4,360    4,310   7,670
Cotat,
InVeSt,UOlt Cost00                           E     1,89G        -        200    3,600            -        -        -         -        -         -        -             -         -       -
Inoreeu,tal Oaprating Costa                  3$       60        300      230       490      675      768       575      705    1,063    1,215    1,2140    1,290    1,625    1,623   1,580
Intrest on Short-Too, ioOt                   06 r                         22        35                    -         -        -        -             -         -        -             -
Sub-Total                               El   1,860         300      452    4,125       675      768       575      705    1,03    1,215    1,240    1,298    1,625    1,623   1,580
let Inoretntal Cash Flow                       8*   (1,684)      (159)    (256)  (3,085)   1,005    1,434        995    1,460    1,1467    1,280    2,240    2,162    2,735    2,687  6,090
rinaniLel Rate of Return,  213%
Privte Croae-Brradit, Rawnh Iodel - 200 One.
Deftite
Iuoraeoetal Cattle Sales                     3*    2,600      2,050    3,380    2,460   24,S80   29,640   30,105   31,185   31,365   31,165   31,185  100,870)]   -
Costs
Invest,ennt Cost,                            Ns  146,000        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -                                    _ -  -
Inoremental OpratingC Costs                  Fs   14,109      6,738    6,864   10,019   11,188   31,456   10,789   10,859   11,552   10,852   10,852   10,852
Interest on Short-T.rm2 Debt                 3        -         -        -         -        7914 Sb- 
Sub-Tota,l                              i.   50,109      6,738    6,864   10,019   11,982   11,456   10,789   10,859   11,552   10f,852   10,852   10,852         -
It t                                           2*orommtal Otb_r'_  3$  (147,509)   (4,668)  (3,144)  (7,559)  12,898   18,184   19,316   20,326   1,8013   20,333   20,333   90,018  -
PinanoflAl Rat. of Rt-,
]  DCludst  incrano.tal had ioaloo.
November 12, 1970



ROp A
A.D522  kAB&B  .I3DY MLq0f21r I92D EMrT
Holleta Daix7 Stuid2  - 100 God
cixaCial P.,ktp of ReatIa
! - ~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ -    -     -            -    -     -e r t -   -     -   -  *- --   -   -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -  - _e r
a 2' r    7 _ M                                 2    3    4                                                             9   ID                      1 __3 1'
Benefits
Incrernta1 Milk Sales          '00 1        105        547       499     1,099     1,194      1,291     1,291     1,291     1,291      1,291      1,291     1,291     1,251     1,291      L5C!
°        Incrematal Milk Oales          X$         3,1465    18,051    16,467    36,267    39,402   1h2,603    38,730    38,730    38,730    38,730    32,275    32,275    32,275    32,275    38.2;t
Incremental Cattle Sales       B$         1,820      3,9140    27,090   J47,300    53,120    53,820    53,020    53,820    53,820    53,820    54,120    53,820    53,820    53,820   103 iht_
Sub-Total                 13         5,285    21,991    43,557    83,567    92,522    96,423    91,750    92,550    92,550    92,550    86,695    86,095    86,095    86,o95   135,9715
Coats
Ineeatemnt Costs                2$        37,000        -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Incremental Operating Costs     Z$          9,200    24,300    29,500    34,700    35,900    36,600    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,900    33, 9-C0
Interest on Short-Term Debt     9$           -        2,506     5,397     7,008     5,465      3,038        77        -         -         -          -         -         -          -
Sub-Total                  E$        h46,200    26,806    34,897    41,708   I41,365    39,638    33,977    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,900    33,9x7    33,900    33,900    33,!oe
N!t Tncruiaital Cash  low         E$        (40,915)   (4,815)    8,660    41,859    51,157    56,785    57,773    58,650    58,650    58,650    52,795    5?3195    ;2,19195    ,,l5195          :
Financial Rate of Return:  53.2%
1/ Includes incremental hard value.



ETHIO?IA
ADDIS ABABA DAIRY' DEVELORET PROJECT
Econoemic Rate Of Returs
(13 'Q300
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -  Years   -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
InEM                                  1         2         3         4          5         6          7         8         9         10        11         12        13        114      15.19       20
I Evestmenrts
vSmall Dairy Farms                         27        176       232        74        378       457          -         -         _          _                    _         _         _          _
Medium Sise Dairy Farms               1,480      1,619     1,218     1,201        387        35          -         -         -          -         -               -         -          -         _
H,      Private Cross-Breeding Ranches           138        92         -          -         -         -          -         -          - _                  - _    _    _
14°      Holleta Dairy Stud Farm                  37         -
°      Abernossa Cross-Breeding Ranch           250                                                                   -         -               -         -
Shola Dairy Plant                        279       110       109        198        56
Sub-Total                          2,all      1,997     1,559     1,473        821       549               -         -          -         -          -              -         -          -         -
Costs of Technical and Administrative
Services                                 910     1,020       960        790       710       690        670       670       640        670_      670        670       740       7ho        740       740
Sub-Total                             910     1,020       960       790        710       690        670       670       640        670       670        670       740       740        740       740
Incremental Operating Costs
Snall Dairy Farms                          1        10        40         68        87       140        170       164       158        212       273        295       309         ct       389       389
HediumSize DairyFarms                   320        654       917     1,224      1,307     1,373     1,420      1,498     1,558      1,583     1,627     1,654      1,650     1,652      1,654     1,654
Private Cross-Breeding Ranches            12        28        34        44         54        57         55        54        56         56        54         54         -         -          -         -
olloteta Dairy Stmad?ara                   9        24        30         35        36        37         3h        34         34        34         34        34        34         34        34         314
Abernossa Cross-Breeding Ranch            95        55        52         66        65        61         60        49                                    -              -          -         -          -
Shola Dairy Plant L'                       1       167       367       498        643       791        976    1025       1,083     1,132     1,169      1,228     1,291     1,318      1,337     1,337
Sab-Total                             438       938     1,440     1,935      2,192     2,459     2,715      2,824     2,889      3,017     3,157      3,265     3,284     3,352      3,411s    3,414
Total Incremental Ccots Including
Investmets                             3,559     3,955     3 9       4,198      3.723         8      3,385     3.494      3529      3,687     3,827      3         4,024    h4,92       4,154     4,154
Incremental Cattle Bales
Ssall Dir  Farsia                          2        12        21         12        w6        71         50        36         24        54         64        80       109        132       132       932
Medium Stie Dairy Farns                 102        170       131       124        4y,       428       529        677       608        629       629       638        634       632        632     3,430
Private Cross-Breeding Ranches             8        11        14         14        80       139        150       154       156        156       156        504         -          -         -
Holleta Dair  Stud Farm                    2         4        27         47        53        54         53        54         54        54         54        54        54         54        54       1004
Abernossa Cross-Breeding Fanch            74        64        57         98       153       137        137       333          -         -          -         -                    -         -          -
Sub-Total                             188       261       250       295        729       829        919     1,254       842        893       904      1,276       797       817        817      4,465
Incremental Milk Salets 2/                   4       655     1,550      2,136     2,780     3,395      3,787     4,036      4,302     4,521     4,692      4,950     5,230      5,3       5,1461    5,461
Earnings froam Artificial Insemination
and VetersaryServices                  36        85       127        163       188       206        208       208        210       212       215        223       225        225       225        225
Total Increrental Income                   228     10o01     1,927        594     3,697      4,430     4,914     51498      5,354       626      5.811     649 652                               1  0,151
Balance                           (3,331)   (2,9514)   (2,032)   (1,614)      (26)       732      1,529     2,004      t,825     1,939     1,984      2,514     2,226      2,316     2,249     5,9?7
Economic Fate of Return   ll. 
D Etoluding payments made for milk to farmers br ShoIa Dairy Plant.
2/ includes incremwntal herd values.
r/ Calculatton is based on. a wholesale price cf rd2k of Z-$ 0.40 per liter, whtch is an estimite cf the price at cuich recon5t4tuted ghole aillk cculd be sald in Addia Abato.
the ekbj miLk pc-vier is imported from NE-, Zealand.
j/  Figure in parentbosis are negative.



To Goiom
To Asn,oro
\Gebre G.r.che                   * 6
_ _ Fs---> /i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ebre
Birbon
i60                 4*5                                    t 
| Asr-sr!  0' >      sm,R,|\3t
As,nor.o0     Or~  t~d
S U D a N g                    ".    'i4 
-120       /                      )       -2 
Addis Abory     00?Ar. 
\    E T H  I O  P I A                                       \f
_6-  '<    ,               e                       > e                                       >                      ETHIOPIA
._.        /           ,r E k S \- j20 MALIA                                                               ADDIS  ABABA  DAIRY
A .  * ,.DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Holetx Orairy          A  A            
ABABA    EPermanent & Proposed Milk Collecting Centers
A r<A  Bigger forms supplying to ADDC
To Leke,pt      inci,                                                                                           *  Permanent collecting centers
\  ADDIS ABABA Doiry Industry
A?  /    /6   \ ^                 1]0 Proposed new collecting centers
<   JZ    0            i     Os                             ~~~~~~~~~All weather roads
--A;[1-~~~~~~~~~~~Der Z\i
To Jimmo -  ul         Bob                                                                                                                       j
0      10      7.0     30       40      50
XILOMETERS                               To Hoso.a
(cppro.imat3 scale)                         ToHosono                                                      To Chilalo
To Abcrnosso Ranch
JlLY 1970                                                                                                                                                                .  2_



