CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 269 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 30, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 269 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 30, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          August 30,    1971, between    EMPIRE    OF
ETHIOPIA     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided-
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural and
Industrial Development B?.nk with the assistance of the Dairy Development Agency
and the Borrower, and as part of such assistance the Borrower will make available
to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank and the Dairy Development
Agency respectively, part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereafter provided;
(C)   Parts B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the Dairy
Development Agency with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Dairy Development Agency a part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association, the Dairy Development Agency and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;


﻿4
(b)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(c)  The words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(d)   The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, 'he several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
the Dairy Development Agency and the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement.
(b)   "DDA   Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower, and the Dairy Development Agency pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to that Project Financing
Agreement.
(c)   "AIDB Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to that Project
Financing Agreement.
(d)   "DDA" means the Dairy Development Agency established and
operating in accordance with Order No. 72 dated May 27, 1971 and Proclamation
No. 287 dated 29th July 1971.
(e)   "farm development plan" means any plan prepared by DDA and an
applicant for a Dairy loan (i) for investment in land clearing, fencing, stock handling
facilities, machinery, watering facilities, pasture establishment, dairy cattle, artificial
insemination, pasture and dairy management equipment and tools, farm structures
or any combination thereof, and (ii) for the provision of working capital and
technical services in connection therewith.


﻿5
(f)   "Dairy loan" means a sub-loan by AIDB for a period exceeding one
year for investments under a farm development plan approved in accordance with
the lending policies and procedures as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
(g)   "participating farmer" means any farmer who has received a Dairy
loan.
(h)   "UNICEF" means the United Nations Childrens Fund.
(i)   "UNICEF Agreement" means the Plan of Operation between the
Borrower, UNICEF    and FAO     dated December 27, 1961 as amended      on
July 5, 1963 and September 23, 1966.
(j) "Order" means Order No. 72 of 1971 providing for the establishment
of DDA.
(k)   "Proclamation" means Proclamation No. 287 of 29th July 1971
defining the powers of DDA.
(1)   "Eth $" means the currency of the Borrower.
(m)   "IAR" means the Institute for Agricultural Research.
(n)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank, a
share compafiy established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 55 of 1970 and
the Commercial Code Proclamation of 1960 (Proclamation No. 166 of 1960), and
shall include any successor or successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand
dollars ($4,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the


﻿6
Deveiopment Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02
(a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
January I and July 1 commencing July 1, 1981 and ending January 1, 2021,
each installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 1991 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts E and F of the Project
and shall cause (i) AIDB, with the assistance of DDA, to carry out Part A of
the Project and (ii) DDA to carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
economic, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿7
(b)   Without limitation on the generality of the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall (i) make available to AIDB the equivalent
of that part of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be required in order for AIDB
to carry out Part A of the Project under the AIDB Project Financing Agreement
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement as such Schedule may be modified from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association) satisfactory to the Association: (ii)
make available to DDA the equivalent of that part of the proceeds of the Credit
as shall be required in order for DDA to carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project
under the DDA Project Financing Agreement on terms and conditions (including
inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 of this Agreement as such Schedule may
be modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association) satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) make or cause to be made
available to DDA, promptly as needed, funds at a level sufficient to enable DDA
to meet its own working capital requirements.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the DDA and AIDB Project
Financing Agreements respectively in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
nor amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate or waive either the DDA or the AIDB
Project Financing Agreements or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its departments and agencies
to take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable DDA and AIDB
to perform all of thei: obligations under the Project Agreement and their respective
Project Financing Agreements with the Borrower under this Agreement and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
work schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or amplifications
thereof, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause DDA and AIDB to: (i) maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof),


﻿8
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part F of the Project the Borrower shall employ
consultants acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall, in
consultation with DDA and IAR, draw up a plan mutually acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association of the field studies to be undertaken and the
demonstration plots to be established.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts E and F
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Parts E and F of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that DDA
acquires title to or rights satisfactory to the Association in respect of the lands
on which the milk purchasing, processing and marketing facilities included in the
Project are situated or are to be established and title satisfactory to the Association
to all other land required for the purposes of the Project and the operations of
DDA.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿9
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by DDA and AIDB of their obligations under the
Project Agreement and their respective Project Financing Agreements with the
Borrower under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of DDA and AIDB and. in respect of the Project, of the dej3artments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of DDA and, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
S               (b)  The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Cre;."t Agreement
or the performance by DDA     or AIDB of their obligations und.     2 Project
Agreement, the DDA and AIDB Project Financing Agreements respectively.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works,
property and equipment of DDA and AIDB and to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit tlin outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of DDA under the Project Agreement or the DDA Project Financing
Agreement.
(b)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of AIDB under the Project Agreement or the AIDB Project Financing
Agreement.
(c)   DDA or AIDB shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by DDA or AIDB, or by others
whereby any of the property of DDA or AIDB shall or may be distributed among
its creditors.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of DDA or AIDB or for
the suspension of either of their individual operations without the approval of
the Association.


﻿11
(e)   The Order or the Proclamation or any provision thereof or a;n -ther
legislation presently in force and effect and governing the organizaticr ,nd
operations of DDA shall have been amended, suspended, modified or repealed
without the Association's prior agreement so as, in the opinion of the Association,
to materially and adversely affect DDA's operations or financial condition or DDA's
ability to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Project
Financing Agreement.
(f)   The DDA Project Financing Agreement, the AIDB Project Financing
Agreement, or any material provision thereof shall have been assigned, amended,
suspended, terminated, abrogated or waived without the prior approval of the
Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (a), (b) or (f) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and DDA.
(b)   Any event specified in Section 7.02 (c), (d) or (e) of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within th  meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
DDA and AIDB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The DDA and AIDB Project Financing Agreements shall have been
duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower, DDA and AIDB
respectively, and shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Borrower shall have provided DDA with initial working capital
in an amount of not less than $100,000, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿12
(d)  DDA shall have appointed a General Manager, a Production Manager,
a Financial Manager, a Processing and Marketing Manager, and a Chief Veterinary
Officer, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement.
(e)  AIDB shall have appointed the Senior Officer as provided for in Section
4.02 of the Project Agreement.
(f)  The Borrower and UNICEF shall have entered into a revised UNICEF
Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, UNICEF and
the Association.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, DDA and AIDB and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of DDA and AIDB in accordance with its terms.
(b)  That the DDA and AIDB Project Financing Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower,
DDA and AIDB respectively, and constitute a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower, DDA and AIDB in accordance with their terms.
Section 8.03. The date December 15, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿13
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes ol
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Ato Mekbib Gebeyehu
Authorized Representatihe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of. the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I.         Dairy loans in amounts          1,870,000      100% of disburse-
not exceeding 90% of                          ments under each
investment on a farm                          Dairy loan
development plan fi-
nanced thereunder
II.        Dairy loans in amounts            470,000      90K  of disburse-
exceeding 901/ of in-                         ments under each
vestment on a farm de-                        Dairy loan
velopment plan financed
thereunder
III.       Expenditure for purchase
(including installation
where applicable) of
machinery, equipment,
vehicles and veterinary
supplies for the milk
collecting marketing
and processing facilities,
technical services and
feasibility studies
(a)   Imported                                      100% of foreign
485,000      expenditures
(b)   Locally procured                              70% of local ex-
penditures


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
IV.        Expenditure for con-             120,000      80% of total ex-
struction of milk collec-                    penditurps
ting, marketing and pro-
cessing facilities and
investment on farms
operated by DDA
V.         DDA administrative and           630,000      100% of foreign
technical staff and                          expenditures
consultants services
for Shola Dairy Plant
expansion
VI.        Field studies and demon-         100,000      80% of total ex-
stration plots                               penditures
VII.       Feasibility studies for          210,000      100% of foreign
future livestock develop-                    expenditures
ment projects
VIII.      Exploration drillings for        115,000      70% of total ex-
water for purposes of                        penditures
feasibility studies for
future livestock devel-
opment projects
IX.        Unallocated                      400,000
TOTAL         4,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿16
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to July 6, 197 1, except that withdrawals may be
made in respect of Categories V, VII and VIII on account of expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1971 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures under Category V for an administrative or technical staff
member unless and until the terms and conditions of his employment shall have
been approved by the Association; and
(d)   expenditures under Category VI prior to the approval by the
Association of a plan for the field studies to be undertaken and the demonstration
plots to be established.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request


﻿17
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category IV
or VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program of livestock development and
consists of the following Parts:
Part A
Provision of sub-loans for farm development and purchase of dairy cattle
to approximately 350 dairy farmers in the Addis Ababa area and to about six
owners of ranches for breeding dairy-type cattle.
Part B
Investment in farm development and purchase of dairy cattle for farms
operated by DDA to breed or hold dairy cattle.
Part C
Construction of additional milk-collecting centers and milk-marketing centers
in the Addis Ababa region; extensions to Shola Dairy Plant, including installation
of additional equipment and machinery and consultants' services incident thereto;
and purchase of vehicles for transport of milk.
Part D
(i)   Provision  of administrative and technical services within DDA,
including employment of specialists to provide services to farmers in relation to
dairy cattle husbandry and dairy production, disease control and artificial
insemination.
(ii)  Purchase of vehicles and equipment required for such services.
Part E
Planning and execution of field studies and establishment of demonstration
plots of improved pastures or fodder crops.
Part F
Employment of consultants to carry out feasibility studies and assist in the
preparation of livestock development projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1977.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of DDA Project
Financing Agreement
1.   Relending: For expenditures to be made by DDA under Categories III and
IV of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall on-lend the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit to DDA at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per annum
for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of six years.
2.    Grant: For expenditures under Category V of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to DDA as a grant.
3.    Short-term Requirements of DDA: Without limitation of the obligations of
the Borrower under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, to the extent that sufficient
funds cannot be borrowed by DDA from the banking system to meet the
requirements of Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, the required funds will
be lent to DDA by the Borrower promptly as needed at a rate not to exceed
9-1/2%  or such other rate as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
4.    Exchange Risk: The Borrower shall bear the exchange risk.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of AIDB Project Financing Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall open a Project Account in the National Bank of Ethiopia,
into which it shall deposit 10 days after signature of the AIDB Project Financing
Agreement and thereafter quarterly in advance such amounts as are required to
bring the Project Account to the level which AIDB estimates to be necessary to
make disbursements on Dairy loans in the quarter immediately following.
2.    Unless the Borrower, the Association and AIDB shall otherwise agree, funds
in the Project Account shall be lent by AIDB in the name and on behalf of the
Government for carrying out Part A of the Project, in accordance with the policies
and procedures set forth in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement.
3.   AIDB shall make disbursements for Dairy loans from the Project Account,
and shall at a frequency of not less than once per month submit withdrawal requests
to the Association for the reimbursement of the eligible amounts of any such
disbursements, for deposit into the Project Account.
4.    Dairy loans will be made at an interest rate of 9-1/2% per annum of which
2% will be retained by DDA, 1% by AIDB, and 6-1/2% will be repaid to the
Project Account.
5.   AIDB will deposit repayments of principal on Dairy loans into the Project
Account. In case of any default by participating farmers in repayment of principal
or interest, AIDB will itself pay the required amount of principal and interest
at 6-1/2% into the Project Account, and shall collect 50% of such amounts from
DDA.
6.    Dairy loans shall be denominated in Ethiopian dollars. The Borrower will
bear the exchange risk.


