CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 269 ET
Project Agreement
(Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED AUGUST 30, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 269 ET
Project Agreement
(Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED AUGUST 30, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        August 30, 1971,   between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), DAIRY
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (hereinafter called DDA) and AGRICULTURAL AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called AIDB).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) between the Empire
of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million four hundred thousand dollars ($4,400,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that DDA and AIDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Project Financing Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and DDA, a part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to DDA on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS by a Project Financing Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and AIDB, a part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AIDB on terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS DDA and AIDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of DDA
Section 2.01. (a) DDA shall carry out Parts, B, C and D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and assist in carrying
out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, engineering, economic and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DDA shall assist AIDB
in carrying out Part A of the Project in accordance with the policies and procedures
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from.
time to time.
(c)   In carrying out Parts B, C and D of the Project, and in assisting AIDB
in carrying out Part A of the Project, DDA shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, at all times follow such operating policies and procedures as are
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and DDA.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than consultants services) to be financed out of the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to DDA by the Borrower shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   DDA   undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of the imported goods, including livestock, to be financed out of the
portion of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by DDA to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, DDA shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) In carrying out Parts B, C and D of the Project, DDA
shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,


﻿5
specifications, contract documents and work schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications or amplifications thereof, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   DDA shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such
p:oceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Credit, the DDA Project Financing
Agreement, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to
it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds and the administration,
operations and financial condition of DDA.
Section 2.04. DDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the DDA
Project Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DDA
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DDA shall
collect interest and principal repayments on Dairy loans on behalf of AIDB, and
pay to AIDB the proceeds so collected less the service charge specified in Schedule
2. In case of any default in the payment of principal, DDA shall pay AIDB 50%
of the amount in default. In case of any default in the payment of interest, DDA
shall pay to AIDB 13/38 of the amount in default.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DDA
Section 3.01. DDA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.02. DDA shall: (i) at all times manage its affairs and carry out
its operations in respect of the Project, in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, economic, engineering and agricultural practices, under the supervision
of qualified, experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and
competent staff in adequate number; (ii) adequately maintain all the equipment
and fixed assets relevant or necessary to the carrying out and operation of the


﻿6
Project and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof; and (iii)
promptly take all requisite steps on its part to acquire and retain all such land,
interests in land and properties and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises as shall be, from time to time, necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the various technical,
administrative and financial aspects of the Project, DDA shall employ a qualified
and experienced General Manager and establish and maintain three divisions each
headed by a qualified and experienced Manager to be designated the Production
Division, the Processing and Marketing Division and the Financial Division, with
such functions and responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be modified from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower, the Association and DDA.
(b)   Until the completion of the Project, DDA shall employ a qualified
and experienced Production Manager, mutually acceptable to the Association and
DDA, to manage DDA's Production Division.
(c)   Until the completion of the Project DDA shall employ, in accordance
with Schedule 1 to this Agreement, qualified and experienced persons in the
positions of General Manager, Financial Manager, Processing and Marketing Manager,
Chief Veterinary Officer, Artificial Insemination Specialist and Chief Dairy
Development Officer, and shall consult with the Association on the qualifications
and experience of the persons proposed and the terms and conditions of their
respective appointments sufficiently in advance of any appointment for the
Association to give its comments thereon.
Section 3.04. DDA shall ensure that adequate technical, veterinary and
artificial insemination services in accordance with sound agricultural and veterinary
practices are provided to all participating farmers during the repayment period of
the Dairy loans made to them.
Section 3.05. DDA shall ensure during the repayment period of Dairy loans
(i) that all cattle of participating farmers are vaccinated against rinderpest,
foot-and-mouth disease and contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia at regular intervals
as determined by the Chief Veterinary Officer of DDA, and (ii) that the procedures
laid down by the Chief Veterinary Officer are enforced for control of infestation
with cattle ticks and of tick-borne diseases on all farms of participating farmers.
Section 3.06. (a) DDA shall set the prices paid to milk producers at levels
sufficient to provide adequate incentives to them to produce and sell milk to DDA.


﻿7
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DDA shall set its retail
prices of milk and other related products at levels sufficient to cover the operating
costs of DDA's milk collecting, processing and marketing facilities including taxes,
if any, adequate provision for maintenance and depreciation, interest and other
charges on debt, repayment of debt (to the extent not covered by depreciation)
and to provide a reasonable return on capital employed.
Section 3.07. In carrying out the extension to the Shola Dairy Plant included
in Part C of the Project, DDA shall consult with UNICEF in the drawing up of
specifications, the evaluation of bids, the preparation of recommendations for the
award of contracts and in certifying that contracts have been completed in
accordance with sound engineering practices.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part D of the Project DDA shall employ
competent and experienced staff and in the case of administrative and technical
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit the terms and conditions
of employment of each staff member shall be mutually acceptable to the
Association and DDA.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of AIDB
Section 4.01. (a) AIDB shall, with the assistance of DDA, carry out Part A
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
agricultural, administrative, financial, banking and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, AIDB shall:
(i)         make available sub-loans on terms and conditions consistent with
the Loan Procedures and Policies as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time and pursuant to a standard form of agreement
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)        make short-term credit available, to participating farmers not in
default under an existing Dairy loan, in amounts sufficient to
cover their respective requirements for working capital in
accordance with the relevant farm development plans.


﻿8
Section 4.02. AIDB shall employ a Senior Officer, to supervise its lending
operations under the Project, whose experience and qualifications for such position
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower, the Bank and AIDB.
Section 4.03. AIDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the AIDB
Project Financing Agreement. To that end, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, AIDB shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the AIDB Project Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of any Dairy loan to
be used exclusively in carrying out the farm development plan for which such
Dairy loan was granted.
Section 4.05. AIDB shall: (i) permit the Association's representatives to
inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the portion of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower and any relevant records and documents; and (ii)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning Part A of the Project, the Credit, the AIDB Project Financing
Agreement, the Dairy loans, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds and the
administration, operations and financial condition of AIDB.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) DDA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
(b)   In respect of Part A of the Project, AIDB shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. DDA and AIDB respectively shall: (i) maintain separate
accounts in respect of the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after


﻿9
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of DDA and AIDB and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Association, DDA and AIDB shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
DDA and AIDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of DDA and AIDB and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 6.02. The Association, DDA and AIDB shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower, DDA
or AIDB of their obligations under their respective Project Financing Agreements.
Section 6.03. DDA and AIDB shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of DDA and AIDB and
any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, DDA
and AIDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿10
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify DDA and AIDB of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For DDA:
Dairy Development Agency
P. 0. Box 2002
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia


﻿11
Cable address:
MILKBOARD
Addis Ababa
For AIDB:
Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank, S.C.
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
AIDBANK
Addis Ababa
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement (i) on behalf
of DDA may be taken or executed by the General Manager, or such other person
or persons as the Board of DDA shall designate in writing, and (ii) on behalf of
AIDB may be taken or executed by the Managing Director or such person as AIDB
shall designate in writing.
Section 8.03. DDA and AIDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of DDA and AIDB respectively take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by DDA
and AIDB respectively pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 8.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
By /s/ Ato Asfaw Damte
Authorized Representative
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ Ato Mekbib Gebeyehu
Authorized R epresenitative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures of DDA
A.    The Organization of DDA
The chief executive of DDA will be the General Manager. Within DDA there
will be three divisions with the following responsibilities:
(a)   The Production Division, under the direction of the Production
Manager, will be responsible for provision of on-farm technical services, veterinary
services and artificial insemination services to participating farmers; it will be
responsible for drawing up development plans for individual farms, which would
form the basis for applications for Dairy loans under the Project and for assisting
AIDB in verifying that disbursements under such loans are in accordance with
approved farm development plans.
(b)   The Processing and Marketing Division, under the direction of the
Processing and Marketing Manager, will be responsible for operation of the Shola
Dairy Plant and for collection, transport, processing and marketing of milk and
it would also be responsible for the planning and establishment of additional
facilities for collection, processing and marketing of milk.
(c)   The Financial Division, under the direction of the Financial Manager,
(i) will be responsible for management of all financial aspects of DDA's operations,
and (ii) will also be responsible for DDA assistance to AIDB in the collection
of interest and principal repayments on Dairy loans.
B.    Project Management
1.   Under the direction of the General Manager, the Production Manager,
the Processing and Marketing Manager and the Financial Manager will have the
following responsibilities in relation to staff employed or to be employed within
their respective Divisions:
(a)   coordinating the functions of their respective Divisions with those of
other Divisions in order to achieve the objectives of the Project;
(b)   selecting, promoting, suspending and removing personnel within their
Divisions;
(c)   prescribing the duties and responsibilities of and training technical staff
within their Divisions.


﻿14
2.    The Production Manager will be responsible, under the direction of
the General Manager, for direction of the Production Division in carrying out its
functions as defined in paragraph (a) of part A of this Schedule. He shall have
the following specific responsibilities:
(a)   advising the General Manager on all matters affecting the execution
of Parts A, B and D of the Project;
(b)   supervising DDA's activities in relation to the execution of Parts A,
B and D of the Project;
(c)   approving farm development plans before submitting them through the
Development Loan Committee referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement to AIDB as a basis for consideration of loan applications from farmers;
(d)   ensuring that adequate technical, veterinary and artificial insemination
services are provided to all participating farmers;
(e)   recommending    to  AIDB   suspension  of disbursements or other
appropriate action in cases of misuse of loan proceeds by participating farmers;
(f)   preparing, in consultation with the Financial Manager, for submission
to the General Manager and the Board of DDA the annual operating budget for
the Production Division and subject to the directives of the General Manager
authorizing all expenditures thereunder;
(g)   preparing, in consultation with the General Manager and AIDB,
estimates of the requirements for the purchases of cattle by DDA, arranging in
consultation with the General Manager for quotations for supply of dairy-cattle
from at least three countries and, in consultation with the General Manager,
approving the selection of cattle for purchase, taking into account price, production
standards and suitability for Ethiopian conditions;
(h)   arranging distribution of purchased dairy cattle to participating farmers
at a price calculated so as on the average to cover costs of purchase, transportation,
acclimatization and stock losses;
(i)   assisting AIDB in verifying that disbursements under Dairy loans are
in accordance with approved farm development plans;
0)    supervising the operation and management of the Holleta Dairy Stud
Farm, Shola Dairy Farm, the Abernossa Ranch and any other farms or ranches
to be operated by DDA to breed dairy-cattle.


﻿15
3.    The Chief Veterinary Officer shall, under the direction of the
Production Manager, ensure that an adequate veterinary service is provided to reduce
to a minimum losses due to disease on participating farms. He shall ensure that
the conditions referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement are carried out, in
a manner consistent with any veterinary regulations adopted by the Ministry of
Agriculture, and that veterinary conditions prescribed for importation of cattle in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement are adhered to.
4.    The Artificial Insemination Specialist shall, under the direction of the
Production Manager, establish and operate an artificial insemination (A.I.) service
for participating farmers. He shall be responsible for providing training in A.I.
techniques for the requested number of Ethiopians for efficient operation of the
service.
5.    The Chief Dairy Development Officer shall, under the direction of the
Production Manager, be responsible for provision to participating farmers of all
technical services other than veterinary and artificial insemination services and for
preparation of farm development plans. He shall be responsible for training of
technicians employed within DDA in provision of such technical services and
preparation of farm  development plans.
6.    The Processing and Marketing Manager shall be responsible, under the
direction of the General Manager, for direction of the Processing and Marketing
Division, in carrying out its functions as defined in paragraph (b) of Part A of
this Schedule. He shall have the following specific responsibilities:
(a)   advising the General Manager on all matters affecting the collection,
transport, processing and marketing of milk and on the execution of Part C of
the Project;
(b)   planning, organizing   and   supervising  the  collection, transport,
processing and marketing of milk;
(c)   supervising the execution of Part C of the Project;
(d)   subject to the directives of the General Manager (in consultation with
the Financial Manager), preparing for the General Manager and the Board of DDA
the annual operating budget for the Processing and Marketing Division and
authorizing expenditures thereunder; and
(e)   in consultation with the Financial Manager and in accordance with
Section 4.03 of this Agreement, recommending to the General Manager and the
Board of DDA the prices to be paid to farmers for milk and the prices to be
established for retail sales of milk and other dairy products.


﻿16
7.    The Financial Manager, under the direction of the General Manager,
will be responsible for direction of the Financial Division in carrying out its
functions as laid down in paragraph (c) of part A of this Schedule. He should
have the following specific responsibilities:
(a)   advising the General Manager on all financial aspects of DDA's
operations;
(b)   ensuring that accounts are maintained and financial statements are
prepared in accordance with requirements of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)   preparing for the General Manager and the Board of DDA, the annual
operating budget for the Finance Division and, subject to the directives of the
General Manager, authorizing expenditures thereunder;
(d)   assisting the managers of other divisions of DDA in preparing annual
budgets for their respective divisions;
(e)   preparing for the General Manager and the Board of DDA an annual
operating budget for all of DDA's operations and supervising expenditures
thereunder; and
(f)   establishing satisfactory procedures for assisting AIDB in the collection
of interest and principal repayments under Dairy loans.
S


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Lending Procedures and Policies
1.   Applications by farmers for Dairy loans will be reviewed initially by the
Production Division of DDA. Technicians of the Production Division will visit the
farm, assess the technical feasibility of the farmer's proposals and draw up with
the farmer a farm development plan and financial projections for the period of
the proposed Dairy loan.
2.   All applications for Dairy loans will require approval by a Development Loan
Committee of DDA under the Chairmanship of the General Manager, and including
the Financial Manager and Production Manager, before submission to AIDB. An
application for a Dairy loan will be considered by the Development Loan Committee
only if it has been positively recommended by the Production Manager on the
basis of a farm development plan approved by him. Any modification in the terms
or conditions of a proposed Dairy loan or amendment in the terms and conditions
of a Dairy loan in force shall require the prior approval of the Development Loan
Committee of DDA including a certification from the General Manager and the
Production Manager to the effect that any resulting modifications of the farm
development plan would not interfere with the farm development plan's technical
soundness and financial viability.
3.   An application for a Dairy loan will be considered by the Loan Committee
of AIDB only following a positive recommendation from an official of AIDB whose
qualifications and experience for assessing creditworthiness shall have been approved
by the Association.
4.    Dairy loans will be made to farmers to cover purchase of dairy cattle;
provision of fencing, water facilities, dairy buildings, accommodation on the farm,
tools and equipment, including milking and veterinary equipment.
5.   Dairy loans shall be at an interest rate of 9-1/2% per annum for a period
not exceeding 14 years, including a grace period of five years. Of each 9-1/2%
interest payment made, 2% shall be retained by DDA as a service charge.
6.   For any Dairy loan or loans -o any one farmer exceeding the equivalent
of $4,000 either singly or in the aggregate, the Dairy loan or loans shall not exceed
85% of the estimated investment under the approved farm development plan or
plans under which the loan or loans are based.
7.   In the case of any Dairy loan or loans exceeding either singly or in the
aggregate the equivalent of $50,000, to be granted to any individual participating


﻿18
farmer, AIDB will request the prior approval of the Association and will furnish
such information about the proposed Dairy loan or loans as the Association may
request.
8.    In addition to the Dairy loans for investment in farm development, during
the first five years of the Project AIDB will make short-term loans available to
participating farmers not in default under an existing Dairy loan from AIDB to
cover the requirements for incrl-mental working capital, determined by the farm
development plan, arising from increased operating costs, reduced net income and
interest payments on Dairy loans. Such short-term loans shall be made on a
year-to-year basis. The interest rate charged to farmers will be not greater than
10-1/2% per annum.
9.    AIDB will make loans to tenant farmers only on condition (a) that they
furnish surety from one or more guarantors providing adequate security to cover
the amount of the Dairy loan and (b) that they enter into an acceptable written
long-term lease agreement with the landowners.
10.  In the case of Dairy loans to landowners, AIDB will take a mortgage over
the land and immovable property as security.
11.  Dairy loans shall be made under a standard form of Dairy loan agreement
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, and providing inter alia
that:
(a)   no disbursements shall be made under Dairy loans for purchase of
cattle, unless purchase of such cattle has been approved by the Production Manager
of DDA;
(b)   no disbursements shall be made except in accordance with the approved
farm development plan;
(c)   participating farmers shall undertake that (i) all their cattle will be
vaccinated against rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease and contagious bovine
pleuro-pneumonia at regular intervals as determined by the Chief Veterinary Officer
of DDA, and (ii) the procedures laid down by the Chief Veterinary Officer for
the control of infestation with cattle ticks and tick-borne diseases will be followed
on all their dairy farms.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods included in Category III of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or
more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, DDA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by DDA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and DDA shall make such additions or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, DDA shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure   as the Association   shall reasonably request. The text and the
specifications shall be  accompanied   by   a  certificate  from  an appropriate
representative of UNICEF to the effect that the proposed additions, installations
or alterations to the dairy processing facilities are in accordance with sound
engineering practices. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, DDA shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Processing and Marketing
Manager on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with his
recommendations for award and the reasons for the intended award. DDA shall
also furnish a certificate from an appropriate representative of UNICEF that the
contract recommended for award is in accordance with sound engineering practices.
The Association shall promptly inform DDA whether it has any objection to the
intended award and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions 'shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿20
(e)   Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the following procedures
will be followed with respect to contracts for all goods and services included under
Category IV and those goods and services under Category III for which international
competitive bidding is not required pursuant to paragraph I of this Schedule:
(a)   for contracts estimated at the equivalent of US$4,000 or more,
invitations to tender shall be published in at least three consecutive issues of two
official daily newspapers in Ethiopia;
(b)   for contracts estimated at the equivalent of more than US$ 1,000 but
less than US$4,000 at least three quotations shall be obtained and evaluated by
the Processing and Marketing Manager and the Financial Manager of DDA;
(c)   in the case of construction of or equipment for the extension to the
Shola Dairy Plant, before the award of a contract a certificate shall be obtained
from the appropriate representative of UNICEF that the work to be carried out
under the contract is in accordance with sound engineering practices;
(d)   the award of contracts pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this
paragraph 2 shall be made to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be
the lowest evaluated bid and who meets the appropriate standards of capability
and financial responsibility. For the purpose of determining the lowest evaluated
bid, factors other than price, such as the time of completion of construction or
other work, the efficiency and reliability of the equipment, the time of its delivery
and the availability of service and spare parts, should also be taken into
consideration;
(e)   DDA   shall, promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish to the
Association a copy of the contract as well as a copy of the record of public opening
of the bids, the bid evaluation report and recommendations for award by the
Processing and Marketing Manager, and a statement of the reasons for any departure
from such recommendations. The Association shall promptly inform DDA if it
finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits or the provisions of this
Schedule and, in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit;


﻿21
(f)   DDA shall request the Association's prior approval for any proposed
change in a civil works contract involving an increase in costs of 10% or more
of the contract sum together with an explanation of the proposed change.
3.    With respect to purchase of dairy cattle from outside the territories of the
Borrower for Project purposes, DDA shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, purchase only dairy heifers and bulls by inviting quotations from at least
three countries, to be selected in agreement with the Association. All such purchases
shall be subject to: (i) the approval of the General Manager; (ii) the approval of
the Production Manager as regards age, price, quality, source and suitability of
livestock; and (iii) the certification of the Head of Veterinary Services of the
Ministry of Agriculture as to animal health standards.
4.    Goods, other than cattle to be imported, purchased under loans to be made
under Categories I and II of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
shall be procured by farmers through regular commercial channels from responsible
suppliers.
5.    With respect to all contracts for goods included in Category III of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement, for the purpose of evaluating bids, bid
prices shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   The term   Local Bid means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower, for equipment manufactured in the
territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of the equipment; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid will be the sum of:
(i)         an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of the
equipment net of any taxes on their importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such equipment if
imported into the territories of the Borrower by


﻿22
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in paragraph 5 (c) (i) of this Schedule, whichever shall
be the lower; and
(iii)      .inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
S


