Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25250
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38720; SCL-38726)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 99 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR AN
EMERGENCY OIL SPILL RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
December 30, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = lluble
31.867 = US$ I
US$ I =   .03138
FISCAL YEAR
1995    2003
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACJOWNYMS
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FRR     Financial Rate of Retum
GOR     Govermnent of Russia
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INIC   Intemational Management Contractor
NGO     Non Governmental Agency
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SNA     Social Needs Assessment
USAID United States Agency for International Development
WSP     Water Separation Plant
Vice President    JohaTjcs Linn
Country Manager/DLrector:      liani Schwcitzer
Sector Manager/Director:   Hosseia Rpzavi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     William R. Porter



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Emergency Oil Spill Mitigation
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                   8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  9
9. Partner Comments                                                                10
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              22






Project ID: P040409                                      Project Name: Emergency Oil Spill Recovery and
Mitigation
Team Leader: William R. Porter                           TL Unit: COCPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name- Emergency Oil Spill Recovery and Mitigation  LIC/TFNumber: CPL-38720;
SCL-38726
Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                 Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Oil & gas (98%); Other social services (2%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/22/1995                            Effective: 06/29/1995        06/29/1995
Appraisal:  03/20/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  04/25/1995                             Closing: 03/31/1998         06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agencv: RUSSIAN FEDERATION/KOMINEFT
Other Partners: EBRD
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Wilfred Talwitz
Country Manager:     Julian F. Schweitzer                     Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Hossein Razavi                           Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:  William Porter                           Doug McKay
ICR Primary Author:  Richard Bemey (Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Safisfactory, U=Unsatsfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact. SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective:
Background:
One of the world's largest oil spills occurred during the autumn of 1994 in the Komi Republic (North of the
European Russia), as a result of multiple ruptures of the regional oil pipeline. This 148 km pipeline from Kharyaga



to Usinsk transported up to 11 million tons of oil a year, evacuating oil from several producing entities. It had been
built in stages throughout the mid-70s and 80s and, by the time of the spill, included a northem, above-ground
section (approximately 40 km of 325 mm pipeline, the so-called Section 1), and the southern, underground section
(approximately 110 km of 530 mm pipeline, the so-called Section 2). Komineft, the regional oil production
association and owner and operator of the pipeline, realized in 1992 that the pipeline integrity was deteriorating,
due primarily to the high concentration of corrosive water (approximately 25%) in the transported fluid. The
pipeline had a history of spills starting as early 1982. A program of replacement was begun, but due to lack of
funds, was only 60% completed by the time of the multiple pipeline rupture in Section 2.
The cumulative volume of the spill was estimated in excess of 100,000 tons (730,000 barrels), more than three
times the amount spilled by the Exxon Valdez, which was now trapped in bogs, creeks, and dikes, waiting to be
released by the spring floods. Heavy rains in September 1994 had already caused the failure of some temporary
dikes constructed to contain the oil. Over 20,000 tons of oil were released into the Kolva River, causing serious
damage to downstream communities. It was recognized that the existing containment structures, which had been
built quickly, with the limited resources then available, would be inadequate to contain the oil when the water level
rose (up to nine meters) during the spring thaw, which usually occurred mid May. The potential release of this
massive quantity of oil into the river system would have devastated the downstream communities and caused
widespread ecological damage in the region. To contain the oil, existing structures needed to be reinforced and
new structures needed to be completed in the short time available before the spring thaw. The extent of the spills
led to widespread coverage by the intemational press. The international environmental community voiced its
serious concern about their potential impact.
In October 1994, the Komi Republic Emergency Situation Commission declared an emergency situation in the
Kolva River area. However, the Govemment of Russia and Komineft, the pipeline operator, were not able to
provide the resources needed to adequately cope with the problem. The President of the Bank was sufficiently
concerned with the potential magnitude of the ecological impact of the spill that he personally raised the matter
with the Govenmment of Russia (GOR) at the highest level in November 1994. After some delay, apparently due to
intemal debate, the Prime Mister wrote to the Bank on January 23, 1995, requesting emergency assistance in
containment and cleanup of the existing situation, and in mitigating against similar events in the futures. The
Bank had preliminary mission in the field by the beginning of February.
Given the late date of the Government's response, and the limited time now available to undertake remediation
action before the spring floods, the risks of being unable to respond quickly enough to effectively assist in avoiding
a major ecological disaster were extremely high. In recognition of the emergency nature of the situation, the Bank
established two essential conditions for successful implementation: (i) that a contractor with previous intemational
experience in oil spill clean up would be hired on a sole source basis: (ii) the Government put $12 million into a
special account to be used to pay the mobilization fee of the intemational management contractor (IMC) until the
Bank financing became available. The Government agreed to provide $12 million. The contractor was hired in
early March, and the Bank sent a preparation/appraisal mission in mid-March 1995.
The mission met with all concemed parties. It visited local affected villages and met with, and gained the
support of, local and intemational NGOs (the committee of the Revival of thc Komi people, the Save the Pechora
Committee, and Greenpeace). A social assessment was included in this preparation work, to assess the impact of
the spill on the people and to elicit their views on what they needed as relief and mitigation. The Canadian
Govemment provided C$1 million for an assessment of the environmental status of the area and the technical
condition of the pipeline and USAID provided funding for an oil spill expert to assist Komineft with spill planning.
EBRD agreed to provide up to $25 million for the Emergency Project and arrange a grant to fund initial inspection
services needed to verify the work of the IMC and the work related to replacing the pipeline's rapidly deteriorating
middle section.
The Bank loan proposal was presented to its Board on April 25th 1995. The Bank's major challenge was to
design a project that would be responsive to the current emergency conditions and would also support long term
solutions to help ensure that similar emergencies would not reoccur in the future. Water that separated from the oil
-2-



and settled in low spots was the prime cause of intemal pipeline corrosion and pipeline failure. An oil-water
separation facility was needed to that would eliminate the cause of internal corrosion, but the time available was
insufficient to design and cost such a unit. It was, therefore, included into the project in a summary format, with
the expectation that the details would be worked out during implementation.
The objectives of the project were defined as assisting Komineft and the Russian Federation to:
(i)   Stabilize the oil in the spill area prior to the 1995 spring thaw to minimize the amount of oil released
during runoff and prevent ecological damage in the Pechora River Basin;
(ii)  Continue cleanup in an environmentally appropriate way and minimize damage to the impacted areas
and people;
(iii) Support safe pipeline operations in the near term and evaluate the need for a replacement pipeline
investment project for the longer term; and
(iv)  Identify and implement other measures to mitigate against future oil spills.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Immediate response to minimize environmental and social damage of the 1994 oil spills:
*   Contain the oil spill to minimize additional environmental damage; and
*   Assist the affected people (social mitigation).
Medium term environmental response:
*   Clean-up oil spills in environmentally appropriate ways to minimize damage to impacted areas and
people;
*   Implement an environmental monitoring evaluation of the affected area;
* Complete the replacement of the remaining identified defective portions of the southern and middle
portions of Section 2 of the pipeline;
*   Undertake an integrity assessmerlt of the entire pipeline and undertake repairs and remediation as
required; and
*   Support safe pipeline operations.
Enhance long term safety offuture pipeline operation by:
*   Enhance Komineft's emergency spill repair, containment, and recovery capacity;
*   Complete the construction of a Water Separation Plant needed to reduce future pipeline corrosion and
installation of associated facilities needed to enhance safe pipeline operations;
*   Evaluate the need for a replacement pipeline investment project for the longer term;
*   Identify and implement other measures to mitigate against future oil spills; and
* Study alternative oil transport options, including a new, "dry oil" pipeline to mitigate against similar
spills in the future.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was highly satisfactory. The project was supported at the highest level of the Government. It
met the borrower's immediate short term emergency needs to stop further environmental damage from the oil spill,
its medium term need to remediate the damage from this and other spills in the area, and, just as importantly, its
longer term need to upgrade the pipeline transmission system so that such Jarge spills would not reoccur.
Both the Government and the implementing agency, Komineft, demonstrated a high level of commitment to
rapid project implementation. The Government provided the necessary emergency funding and authorized the
engagement of an IMC on a sole source contract, and Komineft hired and supported the IMC, so that the first stage
of the project, the contaimnent of the oil spill before the spring floods, was implemented in a timely fashion.
- 3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory with many components being highly satisfactory. The project
resulted in containment of the oil spill, implementation of a social support program, repair of the regional pipeline,
training on pipeline welding and welding quality control techniques, training on the use of special pipeline
inspection tools (so-called 'intelligent pigs') to detect any weaknesses in the pipeline, and reduction in the future
rate of pipeline deterioration through the construction of a proper water separation processing facility. Most
importantly, there have been no leaks from the refurbished pipeline. The project has created a growing
environmental awareness and concem at the company level and has introduced intemational best practices in
response to such major problems. The company has also become much more sensitive to the environmental aspects
of it operations (both on its pipeline and in its oilfields). Management's level of expertise and awareness has
grown considerably.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Containment of the oU spill to minimnize additional environmental damage [Highly Satisfactory]
The primary, immediate objective, that of avoiding a potential environmental disaster from the release of
massive oil spills into the Pechora river system, was achieved. Virtually no oil was released into the Kolva river
during the spring thaw and subsequent cleanup. This success was attributed to the IMC's rapid mobilization of the
local subcontractors, its detailed supervision of the work of the local contractors, and, also by the fortuitous weather
pattern of warm days and cold nights that slowed the thaw process and greatly reduced the rapid increase in river
flood levels. However, once the emergency of the potential for a large release of oil into the Pichora estuary system
was avoided, Komineft's interest in implementing the remainder of the project flagged somewhat and after
releasing the IMC, it continued the work on its own at a much more leisurely pace.
According to data from Komineft, 270.4 hectares were contaminated and damaged by the 1994 oil spill. As of
September 1, 1999, 161.79 hectares had been reclaimed and commissioned but 19,860 cubic meters of oil and
56,600 cubic meters of sludge was still in temporary containments (polygons). The company told the October 2000
Bank supervision mission that there had been no direct oil releases into the Kolva river and no oil slicks observed
since the pipeline was restored. The mission confirned this report with the Usinsk municipal environmental
authorities. Villagers also reported that they had started to catch fish species with low tolerance to oil pollution. In
May 2002, 237 hectares of the 270 hectares originally contaminated land had been reclaimed leaving only 33
hectares to be reclaimed during the 2002-2003 operating seasons.
Assistance to the affectedpeople (social mitigaton) [Satisfactory]
The affected populations were rural communities. Their economies were largely based on traditional activities,
highly dependent on the maintenance of water quality in the rivers both for direct consumption,
agricultural/livestock activities, and fishing. The Bank organized (and the Canadian Government financed) a
Social Needs Assessment (SNA) of six major communities along the affected rivers. Other social expenditure
priorities were identified through a community consultation process. The process identified two kinds of requested
mitigation activities: (i) those responding directly the impact of the recent oil spill; and (ii) those responding to
decades of neglect by both oil and mining companies and the government. The Government's concem, however,
focused primarily on only the former. In both instances, the affected communities place heaviest emphasis on
reliable drinking water and improvements of community health care and medical supplies. In addition,
uncontaminated cattle feed was of primary concem to two communities. It is instructive to note that the same
priorities were highlighted by the IBRD-fimded consultant several years later.
Villagers were, in general, dissatisfied with the Social Mitigation Program. In addition to mitigating the
recently created problems, they had expected mitigation of many long festering problems that the project was not
designed to confront. In retrospect it appears that expectations were too high relative to the total funds available. In
addition, delays in the construction of water supply systems and other approved infrastructure generated a negative
attitude toward the program as a whole. Villagers also felt there was a lack of transparency in the program's
decision making process, and local authorities and the PIU failed to communicate information about where funds
-4-



had been spent and what were the causes of implementation problems. The villagers' dissatisfaction probably also
reflected their long-standing resentment about Komineft's pattern of behavior because they felt the company never
really listened to their concerns and neglected the environmental impact of their normal operational practices.
Villagers also confused IBRD's obligations with those of EBRD, and the latters inability to disburse ruble
funds through local banks was a cause of significant delays in implementing the program. The decision to "jointly"
co-finance the social mitigation program meant that when EBRD encountered payment problems, it impacted the
entire program and not just their small portion of it. "Parallel" co-financing would have been so much better. The
second round of social mitigation fund expenditures were focused on more easily implemented supply of quality
breeding calves and fodder.
The IBRD share of the program was completed in full but not as quickly as had been planned. The
original program was for $4.53 million, of which $3.95 million was fully committed (World Bank $2.82 million;
EBRD $0.70 million; Komineft $0.43 million). These funds went for supplies of animal fodder and calves: drilling
of wells for potable water, medical equipment and supplies, including laboratory equipment for environmental
control and for veterinary and sanitary evaluations, food supplements for children under 2 years old, summer
vacations for children at health rehabilitation centers away from the contaminated area (150 in 1995 and 225 in
1997) and the completion of a village school and village kindergartens. Higher than expected costs of some items
(health center, village school) had led to a lower level of delivery of some of these supplies relative to original
projections.
Clean-up of oil spills and land reclamation [Satisfactory]
Clean-up of the'oil /soil residues and restoration of the storage sites started in 1996. Whenthe IMC
contractors left, Kominet continued the work, aided by various regional bodies, but it made slow progress during
the period when ownership was shifting from the public sector to the private sector. When Lukoil purchased
controlling interest in Komineft in 1999 from its original private sector owner, it reinvigorated the clean-up
process and, by May 2002, all but 33 hectares of the land from the 1994 oil spill had been reclaimed. Processing of
the mixture of oil and soil tumed out to be a difficult assignment in the harsh northern climate and Komineft, and
eventually Lukoil, experimented using a number of techniques to separate the oil from the soil. Efforts at land
disposal, which involved removing oil from one area and transporting it to another, more protected one, including
putting oily peat into sand pits, increased the number of areas needing eventual cleanup. It was found that burning
of peat bogs just drove the oil further down, to where it could no longer be mopped up. This practice was not
endorsed at all by the IMC but unfortunately it did happen. Most areas were resistant to microbial degradation,
either because there was too much oil in the soil, or too much bum residue coating the oil. Komineft monitors the
ground water quality from observation wells drilled in the region. In September 2001, the sampling indicated that
water content in the upper Quatemary and middle Quatemary aquifers was within the maximum permissible
concentration, and in the shallow water-carrying horizons, are slightly contaminated with oil products. Water
quality monitoring on the sites of the 1994 oil spill is planned to continue in 2003.
Environmental monitoring of the affected area [Satisfactory]
The project focused on containment and cleanup of the oil spill. However, it also included a relatively small
social-economic rehabilitation and support program. A baseline study of the affected areas was implemented by a
t6am of consultants, as part of the project appraisal process, during the month of February 1995 and submitted to
the Bank in March 1995. It covered the impact on state farms and agricultural lands, reindeer habitat and
migration corridors, rivers contamination and fisheries, and socio-economic impact of riparian villagers, and a
monitoring program. A follow-up environmental and socio-economic study was supposed to be implemented in
1996 to provide guidelines for further support in these areas. However, extended contract negotiations delayed the
mobilization of the consultant for well over a year. The work actually started in February 1997 and was completed
in July 1998, but unfortunately, a financial dispute between the consultant and Komineft delayed the issuance of
the final report until September 2001.
The objectives of this studies were to assist Komineft in: (a) identifying the priority environmental and
socio-economic issues for the region, as related to residual impacts resulting from oil spills and to areas that may
be affected by the further releases of spilled oil; (b) designing additional environmental and socio-economic
- 5-



mitigating actions and implementation plans; (c) identifying the applied research needs to support the above
programs; and (d) developing longer-term environmental and socio-economic monitoring and mitigation plans.
Several studies were implemented to determine how to best meet the identified priority environmental and social
concerns including the treatment of contaminated soil. On the social side, the assessment of the social and
economic consequences of the environmental problems required a simultaneous analysis of contamination of water,
soil and food sources, within the context of other social issues connected with changing living standards and the
changing economic situation. Safety of groundwater and rivers were of the highest priority, in that they directly
impacted the lives and livelihoods of all local residents. Contamination resulting from the Komi oil fields spills is
undoubtedly one of the main causes of ecological damage to the river ecosystem; although, the contamination
process began well before the spills of the early 1990s since many other fields operating throughout the river basin
contributed to the problem.
Replacement of remaining defective portions the southern and middle sections of the pipeline [Highly
Satisfactory]
Sixty-four km of defective pipeline were replaced in Section 2 during the winter construction seasons in 1995
and 1996 in a highly satisfactory manner. Integrity assessment of the entire pipeline and remediation and repairs
were undertaken as required. A special purpose inspection tool (so-called "intelligent pig") was used in 1997 on
Section 2, and the indicated required repairs were undertaken in 1998. In addition, Komineft carried out another
inspection program in 2000 on the remainder of the pipeline. Komineft now carries out an annual maintenance
program for the entire pipeline and plans to send 'intelligent pigs' through the pipeline once every three years.
Support safe pipeline operations [Highly Satisfactory]
Komineft hired a consultant to undertake a pipeline engineering and technical inspection program, which
included, among other objectives: (i) an assessment of the pipeline operating environment and the development of
a set of recommendations to improve it; (ii) preparation of recommendations for the creation of a temporary leak
detection system; and (iii) development of measures to respond to potential emergency oil spills with a view of
reducing their impact on the environment. This operation was highly satisfactory because in addition to fulfilling
the objectives of the program, the consultant trained local staff and today Komineft has the capacity to manage the
inspections and carry out the required repairs on their own. The company established an emergency spills
prevention unit has been equipped with specialized equipment and has received specialized training.
Identify and implement other measures to mitigate againstfuture oil spils [Satisfactory]
A review of the remaining project budget in late 1996 showed that there were insufficient funds available to
finance all of the operational improvements that Komineft needed to reduce the risk of further spills from the
pipeline system to acceptable levels. Items not yet financed include:
*   The Water Separation (water knock-out) Plant (WSP) to reduce the water content from 25% to 2% before the
oil was injected into the pipeline. If this plant were not built, future spills would be inevitable because the
briny water left in the oil would destroy the pipeline from the inside out, as it had done in the past.
•   A SCADA system to better manage the pressures and flows and to reduce leakages from the main pipeline
with an integrated data sensing, control and telecommunications system. The expected cost was approximately
$15 million. Prequalification applications had been called for and submitted;
*   A pipeline to transport separated water back to the field for reinjection (otherwise this high salt content water
had to be put into streams).
The Water Separation System [Satisfactory]
The Bank had included the completion of a "partially completed" Water Separation Plant (WSP) as a project
component of the activities needed to enhance the sustainability of the pipeline. There was no discussion of this
component in the technical annex, but the loan documentation included an allocation of $2 million for it. When the
proposal was more fully reviewed in 1996, it was estimated that $15 million would be needed: $3-4 million for the
actual water knock-out facility, and another $11- $12 million for related pipeline facilities, including storage tanks,
utilities, installation facilities. When the bids were reviewed in mid 1997, the only responsive bid was for
approximately $25 million.
-6-



Shortly thereafter, Komineft went through a major change in ownership, and the new management decided
that, since a request for a supplemental loan (primarily to install a SCADA control system) was lacking official
support from the Russian Government, it would look for other financing for all of the necessary investments,
including co-financing (or supplier credits) for the additional $10 million needed for the WSP. However, the
Russian financial crisis of August 1998 eliminated the possibility of any additional financing, and the Bank agreed
to let Komineft (now Komitek) negotiate a reduced investment program with the bidder for the plant while
Komineft took responsibility for most of the work on the subsidiary facilities.
The contract was finally approved and signed in June 1999 after Komitek had sold its majority state to Lukoil.
There were numerous problems in the implementation of the construction contract, many of which were caused by
the complicated arrangements for construction and/or rehabilitation of off-site facilities (such as pipelines and oil
storage tanks), which were implemented by Komineft, with on-site plant facilities implemented by the contractor,
all of which needed to work as an integrated whole. These problems were further complicated when the
sub-contractor expected to manage the installation of the project decided not to participate and the turnkey
contractor took over project supervision using its own, less experienced staff. The Bank considered this WSP so
important to the pipeline's long term integrity that it extended the loan closing date twice, from March 30, 1998, to
June 30, 2002, a total of more than four years. However, the plant was finally completed and successfully went
through technical startup in August, 2002. If the WSP had been built sooner, this component would have been
rated as Highly Satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Memorandum of the President points out that the present value of the economic cost of shutting down the
pipeline would be some 15 times the cost of the project, and some five times the cost of the project in the first year
alone. In addition, this estimate does not take into account any of the environmental costs of failing to stabilize
and clean up the 1994 spill. Crude oil prices have fluctuated greatly in the seven intervening years, from an
average of $15-20 per barrel ($105-140 per ton) when the project was appraised down to an average of $10 dollars,
and, in the past two year in the $25-30 range. Assuming a $20-25 crude oil price range would yield a benefit/cost
ratio of over 20, even before one attempts to measure the benefits from the oil containment and cleanup project
components.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Memorandum of the President estimated the financial rate of return (FRR) to the pipeline company at
over 30%, based on the transport price of $3.75 per ton. There is no change in this estimate. However, again, it
should be noted that the financial rate of return does not take into account the income generated for the oil
producers that would be lost if the pipeline closed.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has been substantial. Lukoil has brought a region-wide approach to the
company's operating and environmental issues. When it took majority ownership of Komineft, it commissioned a
full-scale environmental appraisal of the entire area. Upon completion of the study, Lukoil announced that it would
take on full responsibility for the liquidation of the results of the oil spill and started to develop a program of clean
up and rehabilitation. In September 2000, the authorities of the Komi Republic and Lukoil approved
Komitek/Komineft's "Corporate Program on Rehabilitation of Polluted Territories and Prevention of Oil Spills for
2000-2005'. The Bank environmental specialists who reviewed this program were impressed by the depth and
scope of the works planned by Lukoil. Komineft has taken effective action to keep the implementation of this plan
on track.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The favorable weather conditions in the spring of 1995 greatly contributed to success of the containment
efforts. The precipitous fall in the price of oil in 1997 and 1998 greatly reduced the ability of Komineft to provide
all the resources needed to carry through it such activities as cleaning up the oil sites, and delayed the construction
of the WSP plant. Lastly, the techniques to remove the oil from the schlum and reclaim the soil took longer to
- 7 -



develop than originally expected because of the harsh conditions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government provided the funds needed to start project implementation in a timely fashion.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Several changes in ownership and in management of Komineft meant that the program went through several
delays as the expenditures for the project program were repeatedly reviewed by successive managements. The
project started with Komineft being a publicly owned company, and then it was sold to private interests (bankers)
which in turn went through a number of management teams. Finally Komineft was purchased by Lukoil. However,
each new management eventually came around to supporting the project's long term goals but always with delays.
However, the implementation of the project sped up once Lukoil got involved and became committed to the project.
The company increased the annual budgets for cleaning up the polygons and prioritized their environmental
problems. It reclaimed and commissioned (accepted by the Republic Commission on Land Acceptance) 42.2
hectares of oil contaminated and damaged land in 2000, and another 33.7 hectares in 2001, at a cost of 32 million
rubles and 12 million rubles, in these respective years. It plans to reclaim another 31.7 hectares during 2002-2003.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Bank's original cost estimate for its portion of the Project was $99 million and the actual cost turned out to be
slightly lower at $98.41 million. The Bank spent $1.25 million for identification, appraisal, and supervision of the
Project. Undoubtedly, the supervision costs would have been somewhat lower if the delays in the construction of
the oil/water separation plant had not occurred.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is highly likely. Komineft is now wholly owned by Lukoil, Russia's largest oil producer.
The new company, Lukoil-Komi, has been implementing its own, self-financed regional environmental plan
"Program for Rehabilitation of Contaminated Areas". Over the past two years (2000 and 2001) all annual program
targets have been met or exceeded, with the exception of sludge processing. Of the 270 hectares of contaminated
land identified as sites of the 1994 oil spill, there now remains (as of the first of 2002) only 33 hectares of
unreclaimed oil contaminated land. Lukoil plans to reclaim it by the end of 2003. The 2002 Rehabilitation
Program targets call for the construction of two sludge processing unit with a capacity of 10,000 cubic meters each.
If the expected processing rates can be achieved, the 40,000 cubic meters of sludge still stored in the containment
polygons can be expected to be closed before the Spring thaw of 2004.
Lukoil is implementing an annual program of preventative pipeline maintenance and repairs. To ensure
that this program provides effective results, every three years they will run a corrosion detection tool through the
system (to identify any weak spots needing repair). The Bank loan financed the last one in late 2000, and
Lukoil-Komi followed up by completing all identified repairs in 2001. There is every indication that they intend to
continue to maintain this pipeline in top condition, since any interruption of its operation could have an immediate
impact on its oil sales and profitability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Lukoil has been operating the pipelne successfully since 1999. They have demonstrated a strong
commitment to avoiding any more spills and protecting the environment, and they have the resources to backup
this commitment.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank did an excellent job in making the Government and the Production Association acutely aware of the
- 8-



magnitude of the potential environmental disaster, and in identifying a program to overcome the problem and
avoid a national disaster. Without the personal pressure from the President of the Bank this environmental
problem would most likely have remained a relatively low priority in the Russian political conscience, to be
handled with its limited domestic resources and management capabilities. The Bank accepted the challenge created
by the need for extremely rapid deployment, and was willing to adjust its procurement rules and approve a large
sole source contract to meet the challenging situation, and to insist on a significant initial Government contribution
as a show of its commitment. The loan was appraised and approved in record time.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was satisfactory. It was highly satisfactory in all technical aspects, where its fast action and
strong support were a major factor in assuring that almost none of the spilled oil leaked into the Pichora estuary
system. It also showed a great deal of flexibility in supporting the project's objectives within the context of a
situation where the executing agency was greatly pressed for funds, and in continuing to support the implementing
agency and extending the closing date, to ensure completion of the water treatment plant, which was essential for
long term sustainability of the entire pipeline system. The most difficult activity to supervise was the
implementation of the Social Mitigation Program because of the resentment of the villagers. However, even here,
the Bank's efforts was satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is judged satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance was highly satisfactory after it decided that implementation was of national
priority. It provided the initial funds to get implementation going before the spring floods of 1995.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance was satisfactory. It supported the project from start to finish. However, it
never forgot its fiduciary obligations in requiring that its sub-loan get repaid on schedule and actually stopped
disbursements when the private owner of Komineft got behind in its payments in 1998/99. This problem was
removed in 1999 when the Government negotiated a settlement with Lukoil.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency has been satisfactory. Komineft was interested primarily in
meeting the technical requirements for avoiding having large quantities of oil spill into the Pichora estuary and in
obtaining immediate pipeline repairs. It was less interested in longer term social and environmental matters.
Komineft went through several changes in management and ownership during the course of project
implementation, as well as some very difficult financial times when oil prices fell dramatically in 1997-1998.
During these periods its support of project implementation varied greatly, but it did succeed in meeting all its
agreed targets albeit with considerable delays.
The oilfield's new owner, Lukoil, has strongly supported the project's objectives. It has taken the lessons to
heart and has upgraded the environmental departments in its other oil production companies and has adjusted its
internal safety and environmental procedures company wide, so as to avoid the risk of repetition of such spills in its
other operations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Emergency lending requires a clear assessment of the essential elements for successful implementation, and
demonstrated govemment commitment to these elements. In this project, the Govemment agreed to hire an
experienced intemational contractor using sole source negotiations and to provide $12 million to initiate the
-9-



contractor's work. On the Bank's part, emergency lending requires (i) intensive implementation supervision
to keep project on track; (ii) a willingness to take risks where the prospects for success are uncertain; and (iii)
a continuity of project management, especially from the field office.
o   It is worthwhile to extend the closing date of an emergency project when the purpose is to complete project
components that will greatly enhance the sustainability of project benefits. In this case, extending project
completion to ensure that the water separation unit was completed was essential for achieving sustainability of
the long-term integrity of the oil pipeline.
*   Surveys of the concems and wishes of negatively affected groups increase the expectations of survey
participants that their concerns will be addressed and resolved. To keep expectation to a level with project
funding capabilities, it is important for the PIU to help communities establish clear social program priorities
and to ensure that they remain them well informed about the level of funds available and the proposed usages
of these funds. The PIU needs to maintain regular and timely communications with the affected population,
about where the available funds are being spent, including details on causes of implementation problems and
delays.
e Emergency projects should, to the extent feasible, take into consideration the historical context of the problem.
In this case, the project focused primarily on the urgent action needed to avoid an immediate major deleterious
environmental impact of an oil spill on a vulnerable Arctic ecosystem, and secondarily on ameliorating the
immediate damage done to local populations. There was only minimum attention paid to the extensive harm
that the previous oil spill had done to local communities. The local population, however, viewed the most
recent damage to their ecosystem in the context of a long history of environmental assaults. A return to the
unsatisfactory status quo just prior to the most recent environmental assault left a residue of grievances of
justice unfulfilled. To minimize this kind of a problem in the future, the Bank might wish to include a project
component directed at ameliorating preexisting problems.
*   If Loan funds are provided to organizations that are candidates for restructuring, frequent management or
ownership changes (including privatization), are likely to cause delays in project implementation. The Bank
needs to consider ways for the loan's legal documentation to include agreements on ways that the Bank and
the Government would respond to such events.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Emergency Oil Spill Recovery and Mitigation Project in the Republic of Komi Emergency IBRD and
EBRD Loan No. 3872-RU
Project Description and Main Results of its Implementation
An emergency oil spill from the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline at the end of 1994 - early 1995 resulted in a
large-scale environmental disaster in the Republic of Komi. In January 1995 it became clear that it was impossible
to deal with the disaster using own resources. The RF Government requested the World Bank to provide an
Emergency Loan to eliminate the impact of the emergency oil spill from the pipeline. The World Bank agreed to
provide assistance to Russia through an emergency loan. The EBRD also agreed to participate in the financing.
The relevance of the project was stipulated by the developed grave situation and a potential possibility of an
environmental disaster as well as a need to continue oil production in the Republic of Komi.
- 10 -



The Komi Emergency Oil Spill Recovery and Mitigation Loan in the overall amount of $124 MM was
provided to the Government of the Russian Federation in March 1995. The IBRD and the EBRD parts are $99 MM
and $25 MM, correspondingly. The BRD loan was extended several times to complete the Project. As a result of
the last and final Loan extension, the Loan Closing Date is June 30, 2002. The EBRD loan closed on December 31,
1999.
The following major areas are covered by the Projects:
*   Oil spill containment and clean-up work in the oil contaminated lands;
*   Works to replace the most damaged middle section of the Kharyaga-Usinsk oil pipeline;
*   Engineering and technical inspection work in the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline;
*   Environmental monitoring of the oil contaminated lands and water reservoirs;
*   Provision of consultants' services on the Project management and procurement;
*   Implementation of the social assistance program in the communities affected by the oil spill;
*   Procurement of equipment under the Project implementation.
Financingfrom the IBRD loan proceeds
I .    Oil Spill Containment and Clean-up Work in the Oil Contaminated Lands
As a loan condition, the Bank made a requirement that an international contractor capable of managing
clean-up activities in oil contaminated lands and containment of oil spills be hired. Intemational competitive bids
to select a General Contractor were conducted; the contract was awarded to an Australian-American joint venture
AES/Hartek. The contract with the joint stock company Komineft was signed in March 1995. Under the contract
totaling $50 MM (the IBRD part of financing is $41 MM), the General Contractor managed this Project
component, its specialists conducted assessment of each spill site and identified measures that were to be
undertaken to contain the oil spill sites as well as determined a range of oil removal equipment, which was
appropriate for oil collection. The work in the oil contaminated lands was carried out using local Russian
contractors both through subcontracts with the General Contractor and through direct contracts. The main task was
to prevent oil releases to the Pechora River. As a result of activities carried out in 1995-1996, a large scale spread
of the oil spill from the existing oil spill sites was prevented, a significant part of the oily sludge was buried in
temporary polygons, and the recovered oil was injected back into the pipeline. The contract was completed and
payments under the contract were made in full amount.
2.     Work to Replace the Middle Section of the Kharyaga-Usinsk Pipeline
A preliminary analysis of the oil pipeline demonstrated that intemal corrosion was the main reason of its
unsatisfactory operating conditions. A lack of adequate preventive repair and maintenance work as well as low
quality of construction in some cases also impacted the pipeline operating conditions. The original pipeline design
did not provide for use of good quality insulating lining, it did not envision use of the cathodic protection system,
while the quality of welded connections on the pipeline often left much to be desired. A shortage of funds for
capital construction and maintenance work on the oil pipeline did not allow the company to commission a water
removal separation plant on time and use inhibitor additives in transported oil with a view of reducing intemal
corrosion of the pipeline.
The contract for rehabilitation works on the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline, which is 146 km long, in the
amount of $29.5 MM (the part of the IBRD financing is $24 MM), was signed with the joint stock company Poisk
(Russia) in March 1995. As a result of the work carried out in 1995-1996, 64.2 km of pipelines, 530", were
replaced in the most damaged middle section of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline. The contract was completed and
- 11 -



payments under the contract were made in full amount.
3.     Engineering and Technical Inspection Work in the Pipeline.
Consultants' services on inspection and engineering of the pipeline were provided by ILF Consulting
Engineers (Germany) that has experience in carrying out such studies and that was selected based on the results of
the international competitive bidding. The contract was signed in February 1996, its total amount was $5,968,383,
taking into account the Amendments.
Main objectives of the work under this Project component included:
* Assessment of the pipeline integrity and development of a technical solution to improve it;
* Assessment of the pipeline failure-free operation period (remaining service life);
e Assessment of the operating environment and development of a technical solution to improve it;
* Development of measures to mitigate against potential emergency oil spills with a view of reducing
their impact on the environment;
* Preparation of recommendations for developing a pipeline temporary leak detection system;
* Risk assessment of the Kharyaga oil field pipeline system;
* Preparation and conduction of the first stage of the CDP-run in the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline by
specialists of the subcontractor specialized company (Rosen Engineering, Germany);
* Implementation of supervision Over the CDP-run in the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline;
*   Implementation of supervision over top prionty repair works on the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline based
on the results of the CDP-run conducted.
o All works under the contract were completed and all payments under this contract were made in full
amount.
4.     Environmental Monitoring
The main task of environmental monitoring was to ensure public health and preserve priority natural
resources, by using, among other things, renewable natural resources. The Environmental Monitoring Program
included monitoring of the air after buming off the oil spill, monitoring of surface and underground water
reservoirs, monitoring of drinking water sources in villages, study of the oil spill impact on vegetation, wildlife,
including domesticated animals, and organisms inhabiting rivers and reservoirs.
As a result of the intemational competitive bids conducted in January 1997, a contract in the amount of $1.7 MM
was signed with the company Brown and Root (Great Britain) to carry out overall environmental monitoring of
soil, water resources, vegetation, cattle and poultry (General Contractor). Additionally, 13 contracts were signed
with Russian subconsultants in the total amount of around $ 1 MM to carry out scientific and research works in the
Usinsk region in the following areas:
* Quality analysis of tissue of local fish populations and study ofhydrobiota and bed sediments in
polluted water reservoirs;
* Quality study of hay and milk in villages Kolva, Ust-Usa, Ust-Tsilma and Brykalansk;
e Veterinary studies of cattle and poultry in villages Kolva, Ust-Usa, Ust-Tsilma and Brykalansk;
o   Extemal monitoring of quality;
* Determination of the oil spill impact on fauna;
*   Study of vegetation conditions in villages Kolva, Ust-Usa, Ust-Tsilma and Brykalansk;
* Study of agricultural lands conditions in villages Kolva, Ust-Usa, Ust-Tsilma and Brykalansk;
* Quality monitoring of water from the Kolva River (from the Kharyaga oil field as far as the estuary)
and streams affected by the oil spill;
*   Monitoring of drinkmg water and study of surface water from local rivers and water reservoirs around
villages Kolva, Ust-Usa, Ust-Tsilma and Brykalansk;
*   Monitoring of vegetation on'the agricultural lands along the Kolva, the Usa and the Pechora nvers
and around villages Kolva, Ust-Usa, Ust-Tsilma and Brykalansk;
* Monitoring offish stocks in the Kolva, the Usa and the Pechora rivers;
- 12 -



*   Drilling wells and bore pits to take samples from selected sites in the Usinsk region;
*   Collection and restoration of existing environmental data.
Activities of all contracts under the environmental monitoring were fully completed and all payments
under the contracts were made. Based on the results of the studies carried out in the Usinsk region in all aforesaid
areas, Brown and Roots, General Contractor on environmental monitoring, prepared a comprehensive report on the
environmental situation in the oil spill area. The report was reviewed and approved by the Customer and forwarded
to the IBRD.
5.     Consultants'Services on Project Management! Procurement.
Under the said contract the Consultant provided the Customer the following consulting services:
*   Determination of procurement methods under the Project;
*   Preparation of the Project implementation plan and its periodic update;
* Preparation and conduction of international and national competitive bids under the Project to
procure equipment, services and works in accordance with the IBRD/EBRD rules and procedures,
including:
*   preparation offender documentation;
*   preparation and publication of Procurement Notices in mass media;
*   Tender opening;
*   evacuation of submitted bids and preparation of evaluation reports for the IBRD with contract award
recommendations;
*   preparation of relevant contracts and getting no-objection from the IBRD;
*   conduction of pre-contract negotiations with the winner and supervision over implementation of the
contracts signed;
* Coordination of the Customer's actions with the IBRD/EBRD and other international financial
organizations;
*   Getting of no-objection from the IBRD/EBRD on all major stages of the competitive tender;
*   Submission of regular project implementation reports related to procurement to the Customer;
*   Assistance to the Customer in preparation of reporting materials on the Project implementation
performance for submission to governmental agencies supervising the Project;
*   Participation in IBRD supervision missions on the project;
*   Training of the Customer's staff in procurement and disbursement procedures under the Project
implementation;
Assistance to the Customer in resolution of all kinds of differences that arise during the Project
implementation. All contracts with the Consultant for provision of the aforesaid consultants' services were
completed and payments under the contracts were made.
6.     Social Assistance Program
Under the program implementation 12 contracts in the total amount of $4 MM (the part of the IBRD is
$3.2 MM) were concluded and fulfilled, including:
*   contract for procurement of concentrated fodder;
*   contract for procurement of land improvement machinery;
*   contract for procurement of breeding young stock;
*   contract for arranging summer vacations at health rehabilitation centers for children (for 150 children
in summer of 1995, and for 225 children in summer of 1997);
*   contract for procurement of food for children under 2 years;
*   contract for procurement of equipment for the laboratory of veterinary and sanitary expertise;
*   contract for procurement of equipment for the environmental control laboratory;
*   contract for procurement of equipment for the health rehabilitation center;
- 13 -



* contract for drilling water wells;
* contract for construction of water conduits;
* contract for construction of a kindergarten in the village Kolva;
*   contract for construction of'a schoolhouse in the village Mutny Materik.
The Program is practically fulfilled, except for the uncompleted contract amounting to $600,000 in total
for construction of a schoolhouse in the village Mutny Materik. The construction company disbursed around
$450,000, the remaining work was financed using Komineft own funds.
7.     Procurement of Equipment and Specialized Works under the Project.
The decision of the Russian Government and the World Bank relating to procurement of a transported oil
de-watering plant and stopple equipment used on operating pipelines, which are the most efficient means of
achieving a failure-free operation of pipelines on the basis of advanced modem technologies, predetermined
selection of types of equipment to be procured.
* Contracts for construction and installation of KTS (water removal separation: Based on
international competitive bids conducted in May 1999, contracts were signed with Nippon Steel
(Japan) and Nippon Steel Energy Projects Russia (Ireland), their total amount was $16.3 MM. The
duration of the contract was 18 months. Due to a number of objective reasons, both contracts became
effective in November 2000. KTS was procured and installed so that it would be possible to use this
plant to separate reservoir water from oil and to inject de-watered oil back into the pipeline. Due to oil
de-watering, its corrosive characteristics drastically reduce, which has a positive effect on the
integrity of the pipeline systems, increasing their duration and significantly reducing risk of pipeline
failures due to corrosion. The use of such a plant fully meets objectives and tasks of the Project as well
as environmental interests of the North-West Region of Russia. Therefore, the implementation of
these two contracts became one of major thrusts of the Project as a whole. The plant will be
commissioned in June 2002 after pre-commissioning. All works under both contracts will be hence
completed to full extent.
*   Contractfor supply of equipment to seal and replace damaged sections of existing. pipelines (Stopple
equipment): As a result of the intemational competitive bids conducted in June 1999, a contract in
the amount of$l MM was signed with the company T.D. Williamson (Belgium). The aim of this
equipment procurement is as follows. When it is used to replace damaged sections of the pipeline,
there is no need to shut down the whole pipeline system, which is highly inappropriate from the
economic point of view and brings about significant financial losses. This equipment was supplied in
September 2000. Under the contract, the Supplier carried out training of the Customer's technical
staff and conducted tests in the pipeline to replace damaged sections without stopping oil
transportation. The contract was completed, alArelevant payments were made.
e Contract for work to have a re-run of the corrosion detection pig in section 2 of the Kharyaga- Usinsk
pipeline. In November-December 1996, under the contract for consulting services on engineering
and inspection works in the pipeline signed with the ILF Consulting Engineers (Germany), the first
run of the corrosion detection pig in section 2 of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline was conducted. Based
on the results of the CDP-run, repairs were carried out in this section of the pipeline. Three years
later there arose a need to have a re-run of the corrosion detection pig in section 2 to obtain data on
changes over time related to corrosive processes inside the pipeline and to compare results of two
CDP rnms. Based on the results of the competitive tenders conducted in April 2000, a contract was
signed with Rosen Engineering (Germany) to have a re-run of the corrosion detection pig in section 2
of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline. The work under the contract was completed in December 2000, and
all relevant payments were made in full amount. A report was prepared based on the results of the
second CDP-rnm. The report was accepted by the Customer and forwarded to the IBRD.
The total amount of contract related payments under the Project from the IBRD financed part is
$98,220,000
-14 -



Financingfrom the EBRD loan proceeds
1.     Oil spill containment and clean-up activities - $9.1 MM (counterpart financing).
2.     Work to replace a pipeline section - $5.5 MM (counterpart financing).
3.     Social program - $800,000 (counterpart financing).
4.     Commitment fee -$316,000.
5.     Consultants' services under the Project Agreement with the EBRD.
Based on the results of international competitive bids, a contract for consultants' services was signed with
SGS (Switzerland) to conduct supervision over implementation of the aforesaid contracts signed with the
AES/Hartek (USA/Australia) and the company Poisk (Russia) that included verification of the scope of work
performed, its quality as well as the fiscal discipline. The amount of the contract is $1.7 MM. The contract was
fully implemented and all relevant payments were made.
The total amount of contract related payments under the Project from the EBRD financed part is $17.5
MM.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Nil
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Nil
10. Additional Information
-15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
-        'lndicater/Matrix,,       -       PrJI to pi,-ioteiEnst PSR            AcuaULe',A*teEstImatoe:I 
1 Containment of the oil spill to minimeze                                Highly Satisfactory, Relatively little oil was
potential release of 100,000 tons of oil into                            spilled
the Pechora river system during the 1995
spring runoff and removal of gross oil
concentrabons to safe storage areas for
eventual disposal.
2  Delivery of an emergency social support                                SaUsfactory, Medicine and food were
program for affected downstream                                           delivered; new water wells were drilled; and
communities including: children's medicine                                some livestock was replaced. Pasture
and food; dnlling of new water wells; animal                             rehabilitation equipment was not provided
feed and replacement livestock and pasture
rehabilitation equipment
3. Reduction and minimizabon of the risk of                               Highly Satisfactory. The risk of future spills
further spills from the existing pipeline                                 has been minimized through the
through completion of replacement of the                                  repair/replacement program for the complete
middle secton of the pipeline by end-1995                                 pipeline and the looping of Section 1 of the
and installabon of improved pipeline                                      pipeline with a new line.
equipment and operating procedures.
Output Indicators:
'lindlcattib/ i ,   '    -   '                        ;                AtitestEsimate- Si
Higher environmental awareness and   Lukoil, as the current owner of Komineft, has Sustainable: The way Komineft now
responsibility of the oil producer/pipeline  been self-financing and implementing a five  implements the program indicates that it
operator, including regular environmental  year corporate 'Program for Rehabilitaton of treats environmental concems seriously. The
monitoring and mitigaton of past     Contaminated Areas' since 2000. Over the  company has laid out a comprehensive
environmental impact.                past two years, all annual program targets  program and met its targets. These includes
were met and/or exceeded except sludge  targets related to the subject oil spill, i.e.
processing.                          complete rehabilitation of polluted and
affected lands by end-2003; closure of
sludge polygons - by end-2003. The next
ecological monitoring of the 1994 oil spill
Introduction of the intemabonally accepted  The WSP commissioning and start-up  Sustainable:
practices of safe pipeline operabons and  schedule was aimed at the technical start-up § the dewatering plant (WSP) was
preventve maintenance.               by July 1, 2002.                     commissioned in August 2002;
§ The end-borrower annually clarifies and
Komineft is implementing an annual program implements preventive pipeline repair
of preventive pipeline repairs and   program(s);
maintenance. In 2001, all planned repairs,  § The end-borrower plans to use special
including stopple application were   instruments to check the status of the
completed. This has allowed the company to pipeline every three years;
start using the stopple for tie4rnnetwork  § Specialist [stopple] repair team is being
expansion acvities rather than for urgent  increasingly involved in be-ins rather than
repairs.                             urgent repairs;
Komineft is building a new pipeline along the
original one (which will become a back-up
pipeline) to accommodate expected increase
in oil production.
End of project
-16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
" 6 < >  :r 1, l-C; 0  '         . '   App~raisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component.            US$ million    US$ million   .
Management of contaimnent and clean up activities    36.00          31.17            0.87
Pipeline replacement                                 12.80          19.45            1.52
Pipeline remediation                                 16.70          13.82            0.83
Goods                                                 5.30           4.60            0.87
Consultants' services                                 9.10          13.15            1.44
Social expenditures                                   1.60           2.82            1.76
Unallocated                                          17.50          13.40            0.76
Total Baseline Cost                                  99.00          98.41
Total Project Costs             99.00           98.41   1
Total Financing Required              99.00          98.41
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category       ICBCB B                                N.B:F.     Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _C_B_ _   th e r'
1. Works                      16.33        0.87         80.80         0.00        98.00
(14.95)       (0.00)      (68.41)       (0.00)       (83.36)
2. Goods                      1.72         0.00          3.12         0.00         4.85
(1.72)        (0.00)       (1.86)       (0.00)       (3.58)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00         12.31         0.00         12.31
(0.00)        (0.00)      (11.46)       (0.00)       (11.46)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      18.05         0.87         96.24        0.00         115.16
(16.67)       (0.00)       (81.73)      (0.00)       (98.41)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for an emergency rehabilitation project
- 18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No.of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS,, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1995              10    econ, fin, pol, env, proc, mgmt,
eng
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1995                 10    econ, fin, pol, env, proc,
mgmt, eng
Supervision
Jun 1995                     6   econ, fin, eng, env, pol, proc    HS             S
Sept 1995                    6   econ, fin, eng, env, pol, proc    HS             S
Dec 1995                     2   eng, proc.                        HS             S
June 1996                    2   env, eng                          HS             S
Nov 1996                     2   env, proc                         HS             S
Mar 1997                     3   proc env, eng                     HS             S
May 1997                     4   env, eng, proc, egy
Sept 1997                    5   proc, eng, egy, econ, env
Jan 1998                     5   econ, proc, eng, egy, env          S             S
Jun 1998                     5   econ, admin, pol, env, eng         S             S
October 1998                 3   econ, admin, egy                   U             S
Feb 1999                     3   econ, env, eng                     U             S
Oct 1999                     3   econ, eng, egy                     U             S
Feb 2000                     4   econ, eng, egy, env                S             S
Oct 2000                     2   econ, eng.                         S             S
June 2001                    4   econ, egy, eng, env.               S             S
May 2002                     2   econ, egy                          S             S
ICR
May 2002                    2     eng,egy                           S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                               352.4
Supervision                                                         896.8
ICR
Total                                                              1249.2
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LiMacro policies                      O H OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Physical                            * H OSUOM      O N O NA
O Financial                           OH   OSUOM     ON    *NA
Oi Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
L Environmental                       * H OSUOM O N        O NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction            O H O SU S M   O N O NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM      O N O NA
Li Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N     * NA
L Public sector management            0 H O SU O M   0 N * NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
-20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
El Lending                                          *HSOS        OU    OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       * HS OS      O U   O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Field Report Usinsk Oil Spill Initial Action Assessment by Agra Earth * Environmental Ltd, Calgary, Canada,
March 1995
o   Kolva Basin Oil Spill Recovery & Mitigation Project 1995 Project Report in 8 volumes: Overview; six Site
Reports; and an Environment Report by Australian Emergency Services/Hartec Management Consultants,
Nicosia, Cyprus
*   Pipeline Integrity Assessment Kharyaga to Usinsk Pipeline, by AGRA April 1995
e   Komi Emergency Oil Spill Recovery and Mitigation Project Environmental Studies, Final Report, 2001 Brown
and Root
- 22 -






