Docunent of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6578-RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EMERGENCY OIL SPILL RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
APRIL 5, 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
Rubles per US Dollar
Foreign Exchange Auction/Interbank Market Rate
Average for Period
1991                                    170
1992                                    420
1993                                   1,247
1994                                   2,204
1995 Ql                                4,311
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
METRIC SYSTEM                                              US SYSTEM
1 meter (m)                                               3.2808 feet
1 kilometer (km)                                          0.6214 mile
1 square meter (m2)                                       1.196 square yards
1 metric ton (ton)                                        1.102 short tons
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
bpd          barrels per day
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
GOST         State Standard
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMC          International Management Contractor
JSC          Joint Stock Company
KMN          Komineft
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MPC          Maximum Permissible Concentration
MTE          Ministry of Fuel and Power (MinTopEnergo)
NGDU         Oil & Gas Production Unit
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EMERGENCY OIL SPiLL RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no.
BACKGROUND                                                           1
A. Scope of the Emergency                                            1
B. Socio-Economic and Environmental Impacts of the Oil Spill         1
C. Pipeline Overview and Status                                     7
D. Komineft Spill Response and Pipeline Remediation Measures to Date  10
E. Requirement for Assistance                                       11
II.         BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY                                          12
A. Bank Response and Strategy                                      12
III.        DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                        12
A. Spill Containment and Cleanup Measures                          12
B. Pipeline Rehabilitation                                         20
C. Technical Assistance                                            26
D. Total Project Costs                                             27
E. Environmental Aspects                                           28
F. Public Consultation                                             28
G. Regional and National Mitigation Efforts                        30
H. Economic Justification, Risks and Mitigation Options            30
IV.         INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIC3N
A. Implementing Agency JSC Komineft                                32
B. Management Structure for Project Implementation                 35
C. Government Management Structure and Permit Clearance Procedures  36
D. Financing Plan and Co-Financing                                 36
E. Procurement                                                     37
F. Disbursements                                                   38
G. Accounts and Audits                                             38
H. Supervision Plan                                                38
V.          AGREEMENTS AND ACTIONS                                             39



ii
ATTACHMENTS
1. Implementation Arrangements                                         40
2. Komi Republic Resolutions                                            44
3. Procurement Details and Procedures                                   48
4. List of Project Documents in Project File                            51
MAPS
Map 1: Main Petroleum Basins and Crude Oil Trunklines (IBRD 26833)
Map 2: Kharyaga-Usinsk Regional Pipeline (IBRD 26901)
Map 3: Usinsk Region Oil Spill Sites (IBRD 26900)



I. BACKGROUND
A. Scope of the Emergency
1.          Starting in February 1994 and culminating in a cascade of failures in August and
September 1994 and January 1995, leaks from the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline in the Usinsk
region of the Komi Republic have resulted in one of world's largest oil spills. In excess of
100,000 tons (730,000 barrels) of oil are estimated to be trapped in very difficult to access bogs
and creek beds, three times the amount released during the Exxon Valdez spill. In autumn 1994
over 20,000 tons (140,000 barrels) of oil were released into the Kolva River when temporary
dikes built to contain the oil, failed during heavy fall rains. Serious damage was caused to
downstream communities, in particular, Kolva village, as a result of the releases. The Komi
Republic Emergency Situations Commission on October 10, 1994 declared an emergency in the
Kolva River area. Wholesale release of the remaining oil into the river system would create an
ecological disaster, threatening the livelihood of the downstream communities which depend on
the river system and the overall environment of the Pechora river system into which the Kolva
and Usa rivers flow.
2.          Immediate priority is completion of structures to contain the oil to allow orderly
removal and disposal of gross oil. While some containment structures have been built, they are
generally of poor design and construction and are inadequate to contain the oil when spring thaw
raises water levels in the Kolva and Usa rivers by up to 9 meters. Construction of significant
new structures is also required in the very limited time remaining before spring thaw.
3.          In addition to the significant containment and cleanup efforts required, further
serious spills are likely from the pipeline if urgent rehabilitation investments are not undertaken.
The pipeline has been seriously weakened by internal and external corrosion, largely as a result
of the presence of corrosive water produced with the oil. While most of the weakest "southern"
section of the pipeline, where the majority of spills occurred in 1994, has been replaced, the
"middle" section of the pipeline is of similar age and exposure to internal and external corrosion.
There are indications of escalating failures on this section. The alternative of shutting the
Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline down until remediation is complete is not feasible due to the economic
importance of the pipeline to the region. The pipeline, owned and operated by the regional oil
production company, Komineft, is the sole outlet to the national pipeline system for regional oil
production. The pipeline annually transports over $750 million of oil (at world market prices)
production, which directly and indirectly supports the employment of over 20,000 people. Oil
flows can also only be arrested for a brief duration, particularly in the winter, before the oil in
the pipeline, gathering lines, and oil wells begin to solidify, due to the paraffinic nature of the
oil. If complete solidification occurred, wells and pipelines could require abandonment or
expensive and risky measures to effect restart. Continuation of oil production and transport is
also important to provide fuel for the heating plant serving the Usinsk region.
B. Socio-Economic and Envirommental Impacts of the Oil Spill
4.           Overview.  Eight downstream river communities, with a total population of
approximately 7,000 people, would be most immediately affected by a large-scale oil release.
These communities prefer river water for part or all of their domestic water needs, as the deep



well water which is their main supply is contaminated with iron in concentrations ranging from
3.3 to 6.7 mg per liter. The river communities also pasture their cattle, which provide their
milk and meat, on the limited river flood plains. Flood plains contaminated with oil after the
spring floods would be unsuitable for grazing for at least one year.
5.           Large scale oil releases would severely damage the commercial and domestic
fisheries of the Usa and Pechora rivers which support an important Atlantic salmon fishery.
Particularly affected will be the spring spawners and bottom dwelling fish dependent on benthic
organisms for their food supply. On a lesser scale there would be loss of important wildlife
habitat especially small mammals and carnivores in the stream valleys and waterfowl and water
birds in upland waterbodies contaminated by the oil. In addition to the impact of oil releases,
salt water discharges to inland river and land systems cause substantial environmental impact
through loss of flora and fauna and contamination of surface and underground water supplies.
6.           Two of the oil spill sites straddle one of the major north-south migration corridors
for reindeer and may constitute a significant disruption to the herders. The spread of pollutants
from the site would further restrict migratory routes. In addition, the vulnerability of the herds
to pollution and loss of grazing habitat will present challenges for long-term range management
programs. The slow rate of vegetation growth in the region requires herders to shift their herds
constantly to prevent overgrazing.
7.           Climate of the Spill-Impacted Region. The Usinsk area is located in the Atlantic-
Arctic climatic zone, characterized by long cold winters, and cool rainy short summers.
Temperatures remain below 0O C for over 200 days. The average January temperature is -19o
C; the average July temperature is 15o C. Average annual precipitation is about 600 mm,
falling mostly in the autumn (October 68-74 mm). Snow cover is established by early October
and lasts till the end of May. Average snow on the ground in open areas is 45-75 cm and in
sheltered area 140-200 cm. Maximum snow accumulations occur in late March to early April.
Snowmelt data are presented in the table below.
Parameter                      Earliest     Average       Latest
Beginning of snowmelt           15 Apr       9 May        1 June
[Disappearance of snow cover     30 Apr      26 May       26 June
8.          Quatemary sediments, formed during a complex series of marine and glacio-
marine transgressions and regressions, are exposed at the surface throughout the area. The
topography is flat to gently undulating. Higher elevation areas, composed of glacial sediments
of variable texture, are erosional remnants averaging 100-150 m asl. Slopes at elevations of 70-
110 m also show evidence of fluvial terraces and periglacial features. Lower elevation areas are
underlain by glacial-marine sediments of sandy and sandy loam texture and tend to be boggy
with extensive organic deposits. Permafrost (50-100 m thick) is semi-continuous in the northern
part of the area. It becomes sporadic in the central and southern areas (5-20 m in thickness),
where it is confined to bogs and peat plateau areas.
--------  --



- 3 -
9.          River hydrology. The timing and volume of spring and fall flooding are critical
factors in the oil spill containment efforts. As the Kolva River rises during spring melt (by up
to 9 meters in some years) oil releases from the spill sites will occur without containment
structures. The water basin of the Kolva River covers about 18,100 km2, most of which lies in
the tundra zone. The Kolva floodplain varies from 500 m to 3 km in width. The broader flat
areas of the floodplain are swampy, with peat accumulations of up to 2 m. The width of the
river varies from 212-242 m and its depth varies from 1.4-2.0 m. Average flow rate is 0.5 m/s.
Many tributaries join the Kolva; their basin areas varying from 12.6 - 111 km2. The overall
density of the river system in the area is 0.3 km of channel per km2 of basin area. Marshes
cover about 27% of the area and vary in depth from 0.6 - 2 meters.
10.         Precipitation contributes about 70% of the Kolva's flow. The Kolva and its
tributaries are characterized by stable low water levels in the late winter, followed by highest
flows in the spring flood period. The spring flood usually begins between 10-15 May and ends
by about 10 July, but actual dates may vary by up to 30 days in particular years. Average
duration of the flood is about 60 days. Maximum flood levels occur on average between 20
May and 5 June. The table below gives ranges for these dates. Freeze-up begins on average
in the first 10 days of October with permanent ice cover forming in the second half of October.
Ice cover lasts on average 219 days. Minimum water levels occur between February and April.
Small tributaries freeze to the bottom in winter.
Phases of the Kolva River Spring Flood
Phase                      Early      Average      Late
Start of Spring Flood     22 Apr      17 May      9 June
End of Spring Flood       28 June     12 July     4 Aug
Duration (days)             105         58          40
11.         Water Quality. The Komineft Ecological Department considers the Kolva River
and some of its tributaries to be the most polluted waterbodies of the Pechora River basin. The
Russian Federation Expert Committee noted that, as a result of the August-October 1994 spills,
tributaries to the Kolva River (Palnik-Shor, Bezymyanny, B. and M. Kenyu creeks, and the
Khatayakha and its tributaries) were extensively contaminated with oil following failure of
containment structures during high rains in September, when the first large oil release occurred.
12.         Field investigations carried out by Usinsk fishery scientists in October 15-20,
1994, indicated that the Kolva River was contaminated for 30-40 km over its whole width (100-
150 m) with oil. Riparian vegetation was covered with oil (up to 15 cm). The Usa River was
contaminated by oil products along a 21 km length to its whole width of 250-300 m. The
Pechora River also had 250 m of oil across its width stretching from Ust-Usa to Shelyabozh
villages, a distance of 40 km. The Russian Federation Expert Committee investigating the oil
spills noted that a GEOPOLIS aerial survey on October 3, did not detect any oil film on the
Kolva, Usa or Pechora rivers. The confirmed findings by river survey crews of very large
amounts of oil on those rivers on October 15-20 indicates a second massive washout of oil on,
or about, October 15, 1994.



- 4 -
13.         Water samples taken on November 6, 1994 by Institute of Biology specialists on
the Kolva River "at the Bridge 1 Area" demonstrated oil products on the surface exceeded the
maximum permissible concentration (MPC) by 170 times, and samples taken at 2.5 m depth
exceeded MPC by 1000 times. Drift samples taken on November 6, 1994 under the ice below
the oil spill (220 m above the Bridge 1 crossing of the Kolva river at drill site 89) were found
to contain undissolved moving oil products amounting to 37.8 g/m3/h. Not surprisingly, chloride
ions in the waterbodies also increased, certainly as a result of the high levels of produced water
that must have accompanied the oil when the containment structures broke.  Chloride
concentrations in the Kolva rose to 25-105 mg/L, in Palnik-Shor Creek maximum concentrations
reached 929 mg/L, and in Bezymyanny Creek reached 1914 mg/L.
14.         The Usinsktermneft NGDU has established water quality monitoring sites at ten
locations along the Kolva River. Results from that sampling network indicated that during a
major spill occurrence period in August, chloride concentrations in tributary streams to the
Kolva reached values as high as 12,230 to 28,368 ppm.
15.         Socio-Economic Impacts. The affected rural Komi population in the region of
concern are resident in villages located on the Kolva, Usa, and Pechora rivers. These include,
in descending order within a radius of 120 km of the spill sites: Kolva Village, Ust-Usa,
Novikbozh, Schelyabozh, Zaharvan, Denisovka, Mutnyy Materik, and Vaskino.  These
communities are most directly affected by oil spills into the Kolva River system. These river
communities are largely based upon traditional economies which are dependent upon the
maintenance of water quality in the rivers for direct consumption and resource harvesting of the
fishery.
16.         In addition to the fishery, Komi reindeer herders maintain large herds which
follow annual migratory routes between winter pastures in the south and summer pastures in the
north of the region. This renewable resource has been augmented in recent years with the
addition of cattle for meat and dairy products in private holdings and in state farms. These
animals are pastured along the extensive riparian banklands of the Kolva, Usa and Pechora
rivers. Contamination of milk from hydrocarbons is a significant risk. In addition to impacts
on permanent pasture lands, a major reindeer migratory pathway was blocked by the spills. In
December 1994, there were unconfirmed reports that reindeer from the Ust-Usinsky collective
farm came into contact with the oil spills while being moved southward to their winter pastures.
The Usinsk City Director of Agriculture reported that as a result of the disturbances at the spill
sites, eight brigades were forced to move well east of the spill sites where they maintained the
herds on sub-optimal summer pastures during the winter. Eight other brigades of reindeer
herders proceeded south by extending the migratory corridor well west of the spill locations.
In April, the herders plan to follow the more westerly route again while proceeding north.
These alternatives were developed in conjunction with Komineft.
17.         The late 1994 oil spills severely impacted the community of Kolva Village and
the Kolva River. Survey results indicated that oil in the river just upstream of Kolva Village
in August and October 1994 exceeded both drinking water Maximum Permissible Concentrations
(MPCs) and fisheries MPC values. In October 1994, very large amounts of surface oil
contaminated the waters and riparian areas of Kolva Village. The Usinsk Committee on
Environmental Protection reported that a 5.12 ha area of river bank at Kolva Village was
contaminated with a total of 900 tons of oil. On the downstream portion of the Usa River in the



Dibozh Island area, 2.5 ha of riverine area was contaminated by about 1,100 tons of oil. These
results indicate, for at least the fall of 1994, that local villages experienced severe contamination
from oil, and presumably associated saline production water. Although dilution effects in the
rivers would reduce the direct impacts to villages further downstream, the large volumes of oil
associated with these incidents would clearly diminish water quality throughout the region, most
specifically at Kolva Village. Traditionally villagers have used river water for domestic
purposes. As a result of these large oil spills into the Kolva River, reliable good quality
drinking water supplies from wells for downstream villages appear to be a necessity.
18.         Preliminary surveys carried out in February 1995, indicate that emergency
measures to mitigate the environmental impacts to the Kolva, Usa and Pechora rivers ranked as
the first and second priorities for downstream villages. Significantly, Kolva Village had as its
highest priority the replacement of feed for domestic livestock and reindeer due to loss of
grazing lands and feed shortages. Their second priority was potable water supply of good
quality.
19.         Fisheries. Anecdotal information received during community consultations
indicates that hydrocarbon contamination of traditional domestic fisheries has become a major
concern of Komi villagers. Preliminary analytical results from a November 6, 1994 Institute of
Biology field inspection reported a complete absence of benthic fauna on the Kolva River bottom
area contaminated by the oil spill. The researchers concluded that "the discovery of a complete
absence of benthos from bottom sediments allows for the determination for the ecological
condition of the waterways, at least in the aquatic area surveyed, as a critical one. "
20.         The researchers also carried out chemical and organic analyses of oil products in
muscle tissue of fish taken from the Pechora River in early December 1994 and in the Ust-
Tsilma area. The following analyses indicate extremely high oil contamination in fish:
Arctic Cisco       96 mg/kg (dry weight)
22 mg/kg (wet weight)
Cisco              73 mg/kg (dry weight)
16.9 mg/kg (wet weight)
21.          As a result of these and related data, the Joint Expert Committee concluded that
it was possible "to characterize the state of the waterway's ecological systems on the reviewed
part of the area as a critical one and to refer to this part as an emergency environmental
situation zone. " In short, the Kolva River and associated tributaries have been contaminated by
oil and produced saline water pollution events for at least a decade, but most severely as a result
of the 1994 events. This ongoing pollution has contributed to the loss of the commercial fishery
on the Kolva. For these and associated economic reasons, fish catches in Usinsk Raion have
declined from 68.52 tons in 1976 to only 8.4 tons in 1994. Komineft's ecological department
concluded that, as a result of the recent large oil spills, the Khatayakha left tributary and the Big
and Little Kenyu streams have lost their fish productivity, the Bezymyanny and Palnik-Shor
streams and the Khatayakha rivers have lost about 70-75% of their fish productivity, and the
Kolva fish fauna has been adversely affected. Without measures to contain the current spills
these problems will spread to the much larger Pechora River, threatening salmon and other
important fishery spawning grounds.



- 6 -
22.         Water Protection Zones. In May 1990, the Komi Republic Council of Ministers
passed a Resolution to establish boundaries of water protection zones along selected rivers, lakes
and water reservoirs to restrict commercial activities in the Komi Republic near waters that were
especially valuable for fisheries production. A list of these rivers is presented below.
Name of           Flowing into        Size of Water
Waterbody                             Protection Zone
Usa River           Pechora River                1000 m
Pechora River       Barents Sea                  3000 m
Bolshaya Synya      Usa River                    3000 m
Lyzha River         Pechora River                1000 m
23.         Nadpoimenny Environmental Reserve. On 1 March 1993, the Komi Republic
Council of Ministers established the 3000 ha Nadpoimenny environmental preserve in the
northwestern part of the Ust-Usinsky forestry zone (see Map 3, IBRD 26900). Within this
'zakaznik' protected territory, activities such as tillage, cattle feeding, construction, storage of
hazardous materials, use of mechanical vehicles, survey work or mineral resource mining,
including peat extraction, are prohibited. The preserve, protected by the Usinsk Forestry
Department, is designated for cranberry harvesting and hunting during permitted seasons.
Notably, the protected zone contains existing routes for the Komineft oil pipeline and associated
power transmission lines. Two of the oil and produced saline water spills which occurred in the
fall of 1994 lie within the boundaries of the zakaznik, but these were subsequently cleaned up
by Komineft. The estimates of contaminated surface areas (amounting to 8.7 ha) do not include
subsequent disturbances from line repair operations or cleanup activities.
24.         Air Quality. In the 1994 the Usinsk City Ecology Committee reported that 10,000
tons of spilled product are burned per annum in the Usinsk oilfield region. In 1992, at Usinsk-
Vozey, 12,000 m3 were spilled, most of which was burned. These figures indicate that
significant amounts of combusted hydrocarbon products are released into the atmosphere on an
annual basis, and ground observations have confirmed that burning is employed widely and
frequently on oil spills in the immediate vicinity of the pipeline.
25.         Evaporation of hydrocarbon light ends from spilled oil occurs upon contact with
the air. There is no air quality monitoring network in the region and no systematic data are
available on atmospheric hydrocarbon concentrations. Maximum permissible concentrations of
volatile hydrocarbons in the air are 5 mg/m3. Komineft's Department of Ecology has made
theoretical calculations of maximum concentrations at ground level at the spill sites, based on
a Russian GOST. These estimates exceed MPC by at least 2 orders of magnitude near the spill
areas. However, considering the uncertainty and lack of agreement on the total volume of oil
spilled, these calculations are not considered reliable at this time.



26.          Hydrocarbon odors are pronounced in the vicinity of the spill sites, but have not
been reported from population centers. Given the large volumes of standing oil at the spill sites
and along the pipeline right-of-way, evaporative losses of hydrocarbon in the alea must have
been significant.
27.          Saline Waters, Oil Burning and Contaminated Soil Disposal. From an ecological
perspective, it is important to consider that as much as 30-35 % of the product contained in this
pipeline may be very saline production water. This produced water may have a profound impact
on ecological resources in the contaminated areas. Produced salt water of this quantity and
concentration will affect vegetation, fisheries, and wildlife throughout the region and may intrude
into local surface waters and aquifers. The treatment of these waters through containment
measures and by dispersion-dilution or flushing will be greatly complicated by the concomitant
presence of large quantities of oil and by lack of access to specific sites. Bioremediation of
contaminated oil sites will also be complicated by the presence of salty produced water. The
produced saltv water is separated at a treatment plant about 10 kilometers north of Usinsk and
returned by pipeline to the north for re-injection into the fields (although it seems that some
water is also injected into wells in Usinsk).  Leaks from the salt water pipeline are also
common.
28.         Impacts to lands associated with past burning of spilled hydrocarbons have not
been quantified. Due to inappropriate guidelines for oil burning, these activities have burned
nearby forest resources at many spill sites.
29.          Several disposal sites for oil-contaminated soil which occupy a total of 7.52 ha,
have been designated and permitted by the Usinsk administration, and contaminated soil is
currently being deposited at these locations.  Their suitability for short- and long-term
containment needs to be confirmed.
C. Pipeline Overview and Status
30.          Petroleum exploration activities in the Usinsk region date back to the mid-1960s.
The first oilfields were developed in the early 1970s, when commercial oil production
commenced at the Usinsk and Vozey fields. Production in the region peaked in the early 1980s
at some 19 million tons per annum (mta), but after that, a prolonged decline in production set
in -- which continues to this day -- caused variously by natural depletion, suboptimal exploitation
of reservoirs, and under-investment. This decline in production accelerated dramatically after
1991, shortly after the 200 millionth ton was produced (1990). The current production rate is
approximately 7 mta from several thousand wells owned by Komineft and foreign joint ventures.
31.          The 146 km oil trunkline, from Usinsk north to Kharyaga near the border with
Nenets is comprised of three separate segments (the Southern Section, the Middle Section, and
the Northern Section), constructed progressively from south to north as oil production progressed
northward. The route of the pipeline system is represented in Map 2. The capacity of the
trunkline system is approximately 220,000 barrels of fluid per day, although currently only
200,000 barrels of fluid per day (140,000 barrels of oil per day) are being transported. The
pipeline designs appear to have been produced in accordance with the applicable Russian codes
in effect at the time and appear to be generally satisfactory and complete with respect to most
engineering issues. Although this trunk pipeline was originally designed to carry 'sales quality'



crude oil (containing less than 2 percent water), increasing volumes of water and gas have
entered the gathering lines, connector pipelines, and main trunk pipeline, so that the fluids now
contain 30-35 percent water. Considerable gas also appears to exist in solution in the crude oil,
with vapor pressures reported in the range of 6 kg/cm2.
32.         Due primarily to high chloride content, this produced water has led to substantial
damage to the both the feeder and main trunklines due to internal corrosion. In 1989, damage
due to internal corrosion of the trunkline was recognized as a significant problem, and Komineft
commenced experimentation with injection of various corrosion inhibitors into the pipeline.
Unfortunately these programs were never consistently implemented.  External corrosion,
particularly where high water tables existed, is also considered to be a problem. Under these
conditions, without aggressive mitigation measures, pipe life is generally less than 5 years.
33.         The most serious leaks from the Kharyaga-Usinsk trunkline have occurred in its
Southern Section built in 1975 and comprised of 720 mm diameter pipe. After a typical
progression of leaks had been documented in this section, starting in 1989, and including some
serious but poorly-documented leaks in 1992, a veritable explosion of major leaks occurred there
in August and September 1994. In Russia, this event is referred to by some as the "August
Avalanche". The pipeline system operators and designers have both concluded that these leaks
were caused by internal corrosion, probably due to erratic use of corrosion inhibitors over the
last several years. It is also conceivable that a combination of internal and external corrosion
may have contributed to this concentration of leak events.
34.         It is believed conservative, and consistent with other pipelines exposed to severe
internal and external corrosion, to consider the possibility that a number of pinhole leaks exist
in addition to the 'hole flaws' reported. However, it is considered probable, that some other
'precipitating event' occurred that contributed to the 'August Avalanche'.  One possible
precipitating event may have resulted from one or a series of temporary blockages of the pipeline
caused by the accumulation of waxy deposits within the 720 mm segment. This flow
impediment could have resulted in the build-up of pressure behind the blockage, which could
have caused a number of areas of broad deep internal metal loss to rupture, behind the
temporary blockage. It is noted that if another 'precipitating event' was to occur prior to the
replacement of the Middle Section of the pipeline, additional intensive pipeline leaks could
occur.
35.         Segments of the pipeline are seriously degraded and require immediate
replacement.  The oldest 58.6 km  section of the pipeline, the "southern" section, was
constructed in 1975 and is of 720 mm diameter. Approximately 47 km of this section has now
been replaced with a 530 mm diameter pipeline. The remaining 12 km of 720 mm pipe is due
for replacement shortly. The second or "middle" 49 km section was constructed in 1980 and
is 530 mm in diameter. This section of the pipeline is also seriously weakened by internal and
external corrosion. Replacement is only partially completed and should be finished on an urgent
basis. The newest 38 km "northern" section was built in 1986 and is 325 mm in diameter. This
section of the pipeline has not yet experienced the high rate of occurrence of leaks as the
southern and middle sections.



36.          The "southern" section of the line has suffered the most. It has not only been in
service the longest but it has been exposed to the harshest environment. Because the diameter
of this, the oldest, section is the largest and the flow the slowest, water has tended to pool.
Hydraulic analysis indicates that laminar flow was probably present in this section. The water
would tend to separate out and sit on the bottom of the pipe. Unfortunately, pigging5 of this
section was not possible and nothing was done to remove this corrosive solution.
37.          The "middle" section has been exposed to similar elements. This section has not
been in service for as long a time and because of the smaller diameter not as much water will
have been allowed to interact with the bottom of the pipe. Although this section should not be
in as bad a condition as the older, "southern" section, recent increases in leaks would appear to
indicate that this section is rapidly approaching a critical state.
38.          The "northern" section has the smallest diameter and has the smallest oil flow as
the production fields tend to be downstream of this section. These fields are also more recent
and consequentially have less produced water. However, the oil in this section has the highest
temperature which contributes to corrosion. There is substantial permafrost in this area and, as
a result, a large portion of the pipeline is above ground supported by large diameter caissons or
suspension structures.
39.          The pipeline has also suffered from insufficient preventative maintenance and in
some instances from low quality construction. Initial construction of the line did not provide for
adequate coating, and cathodic protection has not been applied. The quality of welding may not
conform to standards, based on observations of recent construction. Proper construction
techniques were not always applied and consequential damage to the line is suspected. Changes
to pipe direction have been achieved through miter bends rather than bending the pipe in a
proper bending machine. Thus the existing pipe suffers from both internal and external corrosion
as well as mechanical defects.
40.          Much of the crude oil shipped is high sulfur, high paraffin, with correspondingly
high pour points. All grades of crude oils, ranging from 16 to 34 API, are commingled in the
pipeline. The pour point of the commingled crude appears to be approximately plus 15 degrees
C. That is, with air temperatures dropping as low as minus 40 degrees C, or more, and near-
surface soil temperatures of approximately 0 degrees C, production and transport of the oil can
only be arrested for a brief duration, particularly in the winter, before the oil in the wells,
gathering lines, connector lines, and main trunk pipeline begins to solidify. If complete
solidification occurred, wells and pipelines could require abandonment, overpressuring, or
expensive and risky measures to effect restart. Continuation of oil production is also important
for providing associated gas for use in the heating plants serving the Usinsk region. Therefore,
there has been a very strong operational incentive in recent years, as well as the immediate
financial one (gross revenue losses from pipeline outage would be approximately $2.0 million
per day), to maintain continuous oil flow in the system.
5/ Instruments run through pipelines to inspect internal integrity.



- 10 -
D. Komineft Spill Response and Pipeline Remediation Measures to Date
41.          Spill Response. Nine sites have been identified for cleanup activities by Komineft,
totaling about 70 hectares. Different Russian cleanup contractors have been working at each
site. Komineft's response strategy has been to contain the spilled oil at the spill sites through the
construction of perimeter dikes. So-called syphon dams were constructed to contain oil that had
migrated off-site into the main drainage streams. Cleanup activities with local contractors and
Komineft have been monitored and as of March 6 1995, Komineft state that 25% of the affected
area has been cleaned up. Unfortunately, criteria for cleanup have not been defined in the
reporting schedule. Each of the nine sites is briefly described below.
Site 1 - This southernmost spill area consists of the stream channels of Besimiyanni
Creek. It includes 8 hectares (ha) of oil. Two syphon dams were built to accommodate
a flow of 24 m3/sec, as per calculations of the Komi Hydrological Institute. About 50
tons of oil have been recovered to date. Approximately 150 tons of oil remain in the
blocked areas of the creek. Komineft considers this to be at high risk because of the
amount of oil in the active stream channel that could be readily released during spring
thaw.
Site 2 - This site consists of two oiled streams, totaling 3 ha. Three sections of these
streams were oiled. One has been cleaned to date. The other two are scheduled for
cleanup by April 1995.
Site 3 - This site is close to the Khatayakha River. Komineft has cleaned 5 of the
6 ha of oiled area. There is no apparent danger of future releases from this site.
Site 4 -This 12 ha site is considered by Komineft to be the most dangerous site
because of the proximity of large amounts of oil to a stream that drains directly
into the Kolva River. This is the site of the recent large spill on January 23,
1995. Russian surveyors estimated that there were 16,000 tons of oil present
before the most recent spill.
Site 5 - This is the largest site, totaling 30 ha. It is estimated that 90% of the
spilled oil is located at this site. Komineft has built dikes around the lower area,
but is planning to build dikes around the entire site with outer perimeter cut-off
ditches to redirect run-off water. Komineft is using drag lines to remove the oil
and snow surface layer which is being transferred to temporary pits adjacent to
the site where the oil is heated and processed for re-injection into the pipeline.
Recovery of oil is low because of the limited size of the facility and extremely
rudimentary nature of the equipment. Komineft estimated that 8,000 tons were
spilled at this site, of which it has recovered 1,000 tons to date. However, others
have estimated 68,000 tons at this site. If the oil in the 30 ha site is uniformly
O.meter thick (1 foot), the site would contain 81,000 tons.
Site 6 - This site totals about 3 ha and consists of an upland area adjacent to the
pipeline and oiled stream banks along Palnik-Shor Creek. Large amounts of oil
held behind containment structures built across the creek were released when the
structures failed during the fall 1994 flood. The containment structures are being



- 11 -
re-built. Most of the oil on the upland area has been mechanically removed and
transported to a disposal pit.
Site 7 - This 2.5 ha site is located on Dibozh Island on the Usa River immediately
downstream of the confluence of the Usa and Kolva rivers. Activities to date
include construction of an access road.
Site 8 - Oil stranded on 5.1 ha of riparian shoreline near Kolva Village. Various oil
cleanup teams combined to remove the oil in October 1994. The oil is stabilized, but
more work is still needed to complete the cleanup of this site.
Site 9 - Oil was also stranded on 1 ha of Kolva River shoreline, about 8 km upstream
from Kolva Village. This site has been completely cleaned.
42.         The oil recovery strategy has been to collect free-floating oil for processing and
re-injection into the pipeline. Grossly contaminated materials have been mechanically removed
for temporary storage and/or disposal in landfills. Their strategy includes in-situ burning,
incineration of oily solids, bioremediation of oiled residues, and restoration of the sites. As of
March 1995, sites 2, 3, 7, 8, and 9 were reported as having been cleaned or stabilized, whereas
sites 1, 4, 5,and 6 were identified as being of high priority for emergency stabilization and oil
removal prior to spring runoff. Komineft has reportedly not paid any of the local cleanup
contractors for the work done since July 1994. In spite of this, the local contractors have
continued to work on the sites, although at a reduced rate.
43.         Pipeline Remediation. Replacement of the existing pipeline with a new 530 mm
line has been planned and under construction since 1992. However, funding constraints have
severely limited progress.  Inadequate capital and operating budgets have also delayed
installation of new water removal facilities and the application of inhibitors to reduce the
corrosive impacts of the water. The initial phase of the replacement line was completed and tied
into the southern 720 mm portion of the system m late January 1995 on an accelerated basis due
to the oil spills. Approximately 12 km of the old and very badly corroded 720 mm is still in
service. Construction of the replacement of the middle section is about 60% complete, in
various stages of completion. The more southerly sections are the closest to completion, with
the first 26 km averaging 86% complete. The northern portion of this middle section is mostly
in the earlier stages of completion.
E. Requirement for Assistance
44.         Containment and cleanup efforts to date have been wholly inadequate to cope with
the emergency. The level of resources and technology applied will be unable to prevent the
ecological disaster which will result from large scale release of oil which has resulted from the
current and likely future spills. The Government of Russia and Komineft lack the ability to
quickly mobilize the needed resources to intensify the emergency operations and have requested
Bank assistance to help contain and cleanup the oil and to enact essential repairs to the pipeline
to ensure safe and reliable operation in the future. As with other Russian oil producers
Komineft's financial position has been severely constrained by low domestic oil prices, non-
payments by domestic customers and high taxes over the past three years. These problems have
been compounded by the loss of revenues and additional expenses resulting from the pipeline



- 12 -
failures and oil spills. Komineft is thus unable to effectively finance an adequate emergency
response.
II. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
A. Bank Response and Strategy
45.         The Komi oil spill situation was discussed with the Government during Mr.
Preston's visit to Russia in November 1994 and resulted in an offer of Bank assistance if Russian
technical and financial resources proved insufficient. Government indicated in late January 1995
that Komineft and the Government could not deal with this environmental disaster without
external assistance. Specifically: (i) they lacked the technical and financial resources to complete
the cleanup in time to prevent an ecological disaster; and, (ii) other donors have made it clear
that they will not assist Russia without Bank involvement. In response to a letter from Prime
Minister Chernomyrdin on January 23, 1995 the Bank agreed to assist Russia through an
Emergency Loan since an urgent response is vital, the environmental impact of the spill is
substantial and, without immediate action, the situation is likely to deteriorate, with additional
spills highly likely. The EBRD agreed to co-finance the project on a joint financing basis. The
proposed Project is justified on the basis of the severity of the present and potential
environmental disaster, as well as the need to continue oil production in a sustainable way in the
Komi region. In addition, this emergency operation should provide a vehicle for studying and
introducing oil spill mitigation measures in Russia's pipeline network.
46.         To ensure that Government was fully committed to the proposed Project, however,
the Bank indicated that it would proceed only if the Government and Komineft took steps to
engage an international management contractor capable of managing the cleanup and if the
Government established a special account and deposited US$12 million for initial payments to
this contractor that would be required while World Bank/EBRD loans were processed. These
steps have been undertaken by Komineft and the Government. The Bank organized technical
assistance to assist Komineft in project preparation through Canadian grant funding of
engineering and environmental studies and through USAID funding of an oil spill planning
expert.
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Spill Containment and Cleanup Measures
47.         Spill containment and gross oil removal activities, as agreed between Komineft
and the International Management Contractor (IMC), are comprised of two distinct phases:
Phase I, with the objective of containing the largest volume of oil and protection of sensitive
resources; and Phase II, with the objective of removing the largest volume of mobile oil.
Thereafter work will focus on site remediation. The work to be conducted under each of these
phases is outlined below.



- 13 -
48.          Phase I: Spill Containment: will be conducted prior to and during spring thaw,
with the primary objective of containment and stabilization of the oil to minimize further off-site
release into the Kolva River and beyond into the Usa and Pechora Rivers. Activities will focus
on four known spill sites where the oil is most likely to be released during spring runoff. The
initial work is to include site assessment, construction of access roads, reinforcement of existing
dikes and construction of new dikes and other structures for containment of the oil and control
of water flow into and out of the diked areas, recovery and processing of oil where possible, and
pre-staging of equipment prior to thaw for recovery of oil that is released during flooding
conditions. Equipment will be pre-staged along the Kolva River as well. Once spring thaw
commences, the IMC will deploy containment booms and other structures designed to contain
and remove floating oil from watercourses to prevent oil release to the Kolva River and beyond.
On-water containment and recovery operations will be implemented as conditions permit; in
some cases it will be possible only to track oil slicks and notify downstream users. Although
containment of the oil is the primary focus, oil recovery will also be conducted as the oil is
released during snow melting and runoff.
49.          Sites 4 and 5 may require particular attention with respect to dike construction to
contain the spring runoff and direct it to the flow-through structures, as well as to keep the
Kolva River back-up waters from flooding into the contaminated spill areas. Data are being
analyzed to determine the appropriate design elevation for the crest of the perimeter dikes at Site
4 within the spring flood zone of the Kolva River. This dike has reportedly been constructed
with a sand core and a clay face on each side slope. In principle this structure appears to be
well positioned and designed; however, the quality of construction is unknown. Certainly, the
side slopes are relatively steep and appear to be poorly compacted.
50.          It should be noted that, in spite of the best efforts at containment, oil is expected
to be released into the Kolva River and downstream via the Usa into the Pechora River. There
is a high likelihood that flood waters, ice, and debris will cause the existing containment
structures at the known sites to fail. Furthermore, there may be new oil spills that went
undetected over the winter or will occur during Phase I work. The day-to-day priorities will
necessarily change frequently in response to changing physical conditions in the project area.
51.          To reduce the impacts of oil releases from the sites during flooding, booms will
be deployed at various points downstream of the sites to attempt containment and recovery.
Booms will be placed up- and downstream of earthen structures to divert floating oil to collection
areas. Booms will be positioned at the mouths of streams, where they enter the Kolva River or
downstream lakes. Booms will be staged for deployment in the Kolva River and at natural
collection points along the Usa and Pechora rivers to protect sensitive sites such as water intakes
and key floodplain pastures if significant amounts of oil reach these areas.
52.          As a further response measure, the Contractor will prepare stockpiles of additional
sand and construction equipment on hand at strategic locations so that critical structures can be
upgraded or repaired as required during breakup. Following the cessation of the spring runoff
(late July), all structures will be assessed as to their stability for subsequent containment (or as
to why they failed). Prior to freeze-up (snow cover), plans will be made for any dike
strengthening or construction of new structures required to contain the spring 1996 runoff.



- 14 -
53.          Phase II: Gross Oil Removal: will be conducted during the summer, with the
primary objective of removing as much potentially mobile oil as possible at the existing sites.
Thus, those sites with the greatest amount of mobile oil will be the highest priority. It is
important to note that one site is estimated to contain 90 percent of the total known amount of
oil spilled. Spring floods can peak as late as June; therefore, Phase II will include containment
and recovery of oil released to watercourses, including the Kolva River and beyond.
54.          Follow-up site assessments will be conducted to determine the distribution and
amount of oil remaining after spring floods. Cleanup efforts will attempt to remove oil stranded
along stream banks (by flushing) and behind containment structures during high water
conditions. Significant amounts of oiled peat, soils, and debris will remain after the completion
of gross oil removal at some sites, thus it may be necessary to leave some containment structures
in place for longer-term oil containment and treatment that is outside the scope of Phases I and
II. Before the IMC demobilizes under Phase II, selected containment structures will be identified
for stabilization.
55.          Cleanup and Disposal Methods. The methods proposed for use during Phases I
and II include the construction of civil works for oil containment, oil removal using excavators,
skimmers, pumps, and water-borne oil recovery equipment, re-injection of recovered oil into the
pipeline where possible, and treatment and disposal of oily wastes by landfill, landfarming, or
incineration. These are mostly conventional oil spill cleanup methods with the exception of the
scale of the civil works to be constructed and the extensive reliance on earthen structures for oil
containment. There is great concern that the earthen structures may fail during the extreme high
water and flow conditions of spring flood, thus their proper construction and maintenance is of
paramount importance. Specialists subcontracted to the IMC are being consulted on the issues
of water volumes, flood levels, and construction materials to improve the design and
performance of containment structures. Even under the best conditions, significant failure in the
containment of the oil is anticipated. Thus, plans include fall-back strategies for oil containment
and diversion downstream of these structures.
56.          Most of the recovered oil will be transported to treatment areas to be processed
for re-injection into the pipeline. Other oily wastes, including treatment sludges, oily sediments
and debris, and sorbent materials will be stored and processed for final disposal. Options for
disposal include landfill, solidification, and incineration. However, only landfills have been
approved for use at this stage.
57.          In-situ burning of oil is a non-conventional technique that is proposed for use
under specific applications. In-situ burning can be a highly effective method of oil removal, with
high removal rates for oil floating on the water surface. Permits for in-situ burning will be
obtained through an expedited environmental approval process. As part of the approval process,
a test burn will be conducted in April 1995 to demonstrate the effectiveness of this technique and
develop guidelines for conditions of use and establishment of appropriate safety zones to protect
human health. Recently developed guidelines for use of in-situ burning in Alaska will be adapted
for use on this Project.
58.          For oil residues that cannot be reinjected into the pipeline and which cannot be
burned, it is proposed to dispose of them in secure landfills. Seven sites have been identified
and surveyed by Komineft and licenses have been issued by the local authority for this purpose.



- 15 -
Since the contaminated materials contain large amounts of peat and organic matter which act as
natural physical binders, the amount of oil leaching from such material is reduced, but not
eliminated. It is still necessary to prevent leaching of oil from the disposal sites through the use
of impervious lining material such as clay or synthetic liners, which will not degrade on contact
with oil. Once filled with oil contaminated residues, the sites will be covered with plastic liners
and soil which will then be seeded. If necessary, provision will also be made for extraction and
collection of leachate from within the disposal area and cutoff trenches will be constructed to
divert any runoff water away from the disposal site. Monitoring wells will be constructed at
each of the land disposal sites to ensure that ground waters are not being contaminated.
59.          At the termination of Phase II activities, it is likely that significant amounts of oil
will remain at some sites. Cleanup of these oil residues will be needed to complete site
remediation and restoration. Complete removal of oil residues using conventional mechanical
techniques will be extremely costly and result in extensive physical disruption of habitats for
which restoration is both difficult and long-term. Thus, bioremediation, which is an acceleration
of the natural process of oil degradation by microbial activity, is one promising in-situ technique
that will be evaluated as a long-term strategy for Phase III oil cleanup and remediation.
Bioremediation was shown to be effective even during the short summer period at the Exxon
Valdez spill site in Alaska. Because full-scale bioremediation will not be attempted until 1996,
once gross oil removal has been completed, an applied research program will be conducted in
1995 to evaluate the effectiveness of bioremediation and develop operational guidelines for use
under these spill conditions. Revegetation techniques appropriate to subarctic conditions will also
be studied in 1995, for application in 1996 and 1997. This issue is discussed further below.
60.          Emergency Social Expenditures. The Kolva, Usa, and Pechora Rivers are
important as drinking water supplies and fishery habitat, and the floodplains are important
grazing areas. The environmental priority will be to keep oil out of the rivers. Thus,
containment and removal of oil from sites with the highest amount of mobile oil would provide
the greatest protection. In order to provide additional protection to the eight most vulnerable
downstream communities, water wells will be constructed and feed supplies for cows and sheep
will be transported close to the communities. Other priority social expenditures are being
identified through a continuing community consultation process.
61.          Contingency Sub-Projects and Phase III Activities. The current oil spill cleanup
plan and costs are focused on containment and recovery of oil from four priority sites, with
allowance for deployment of booms in the Kolva River in the event of off-site release of oil.
Additional funds may be needed for unexpected events such as a new leak of a large amount of
oil. Moreover, provision for activities planned for the Phase III cleanup of oil residues after the
gross oil removal of Phase II is completed is important. During Project preparation, additional
activities were identified, which may be necessary to protect sensitive natural resources and
mitigate environmental and social impacts.  Since such activities are considered likely,
substantial physical contingencies have been included in the Project cost. The five priority
activities that have been identified are outlined below.
(i)   Emergency Response Capability for Oil Releases Downstream of the Kolva River.
The current response plan requires the IMC to plan for, pre-stage equipment, and
respond to oil releases to the Kolva River only. In fact, it is likely that there will
also be major oil releases to the Usa and Pechora Rivers. Activities may include:



- 16 -
o     Monitoring for and collection of floating oil slicks in the Usa and Pechora
Rivers during spring and fall of 1995;
o     Protection of water intakes and riparian pastures threatened by oil slicks;
o     Removal of oil stranded along the river banks in priority areas; and
o     Mitigation of impacts directly resulting from actual oil contamination in
the affected communities (emergency water supplies, boat cleaning,
replacement of fouled fishing gear, etc.).
Labor and equipment need to be available for these activities, without having to
redeploy them from on-going work sites. Of these activities, monitoring of oil in
the Usa and Pechora Rivers, pre-staging/pre-deployment of booms to protect
water intakes, and planning for emergency water supplies will need to begin
during Phase I, as soon as the spring thaw begins. The other activities will only
be needed if large amounts of oil contaminate downstream areas.
(ii)   Emergency Response to and Cleanup of New Spills from the Pipeline. There is no
allowance in the current plan and budget for the IMC to provide equipment and
workers for emergency response in the event of a new leak from the pipeline.
The IMC could provide emergency response for new spills by redeploying
resources from existing work sites, but this would cause a delay in the projected
timeline to complete Phases I and II. Hence, it may be preferable to have the
trained, on-site teams provide emergency containment in the event of new spills,
with the ability to bring in new teams and equipment to conduct the necessary
cleanup. Subsequent to the major spills of the second and third quarters of 1994,
there have been numerous small spills and at least one new large spill in 1995.
Thus, it is likely that there will be more priority sites for stabilization and cleanup
beyond the four identified in the current scope of work. Additional resources will
be needed to conduct this work.
(iii)  Stabilization and Maintenance of Oil Containment Structures. At the completion
of Phase II cleanup, significant amounts of oil may remain at some sites. Because
of the size and degree of oiling at sites 4 and 5, it is thought that some of the
containment structures at these sites will be needed for longer-term  oil
containment and recovery in 1996. These structures may need to be stabilized to
survive fall flooding conditions, and any damage will have to be repaired to
prepare them for the spring 1996 runoff.
(iv)   Winter Maintenance and Security of Spill Response Equipment. Most of the
specialized oil spill response equipment used during Phases I and II will be
cleaned and turned over to Komineft at the completion of Phase II. This activity
will cover the costs of equipment storage, maintenance, and security over the
winter, to ensure that it is available and functional for use in spill response efforts
in 1996.
(v)   Phase III Cleanup and Remedial Activities. Current oil spill containment and
recovery efforts at the oil spill sites along the Komineft pipeline are designed to
remove gross concentrations of potentially mobile oil. At the termination of Phase
II activities, significant amounts of heavily oiled sediments may remain at some



- 17 -
sites. Cleanup of these oil residues will be needed to complete site remediation
and restoration. Moreover, there may be a need to respond to releases of oil into
the Kolva River and further downstream during the 1996 spring floods. Phase III
cleanup and remediation activities may include:
o     Pre-staging and operation of equipment to contain and recover oil released
to the streams and rivers during spring floods in 1996;
o     Developing and implementing mechanical recovery efforts where needed
to remove heavily oiled residues;
o     Site preparation and implementation of additional cleanup strategies, such
as bioremediation;
o     Site restoration, such as re-grading, seeding, and fertilizing for
revegetation. It is estimated that 70 hectares will need some degree of
restoration activities in 1996 and in 1997; and
o     Technical support and monitoring of effects and effectiveness of cleanup
and restoration activities to be conducted during Phase III.
(vi)  Social Expenditures. Additional funding may be required for mitigating the
impacts of the oil spill on affected communities during Phase III.
62.         Costs and Implementation Schedule. Table 1 shows containment and cleanup costs
by phase and activity, Table 2 summarizes expenditures by quarter over the Project life and
Table 3 highlights the key implementation tasks and dates. The containment and cleanup costs
include approximately US$ 5 million in expenditures already undertaken by Komineft which will
not be financed by the World Bank or the EBRD.



- 18 -
Table 1          Contaimment and Cleanup Costs by Activity
(US$'000) '
Activity                           Local Costs     Foreign Costs     Total CoStSb
A. Containment and Cleanup                16,000           34,000          50,000
Site 1                                1,500            3,500           5,000
Site 4                               4,500             9,050          13,550
Site 5                               6,000            17,950          23,950
Site 6                                1,500            3,500           5,000
Site 2a                                soo                               s00
Site 3a                                500                               500
Site 7a                                500                               500
Site 8a                                500                               500
Site 9a                                500                               500
B. Social Expenditures                     1,200              800           2,000
C. Environmental                          3,000              1,000          4,000
Management & Monitoring
D. Contract Monitoring                                        300             300
E. Contingency Sub-Projectsc              6,700             11,600         18,300
Downstream Oil                         500             1,000           1,500
New Spills                             500              1,000          1,500
Stabilization of Structures            600               900           1,500
Winter Maintenance                     200               300             500
Phase III Cleanup                    3,600             7,800          11,400
Social Expenditures                   1,300              600           1,900
GRAND TOTAL                              26,900            47,700          74,600
Sites have been reported as cleaned in 1994; no further cleanup is planned under current pruject scope and
costs. However, these sites will be assessed by the IMC in 1995. Figures show previous costs incurred
by Komineft.
b      Costs do not include local duties and taxes.
The majority of contingency sub-proiects are expected to be undertaken by the IMC.



- 19 -
Table 2                   Containment and Cleanup Costs by Quarter
I        -____  _____-                    (US$ 'OOO)
Quarter   Contain      Social      Environ.     Contract   Sub-Total  Contingency    Grand
and     Expenditures  Management/  Monitoring            Sub-Projects    Total
Cleanup                 Monitoring                                                l
lQ95        7,335            0             0         50       7,385           0       7,385
2Q95       21,550           750          600         100     23,000           0      23,000
3Q95        18,115        1,000          800         100     20,015           0      20,015
4Q95        3,000           250          400          50      3,700           0       3,700
Total      50,000         2,000         1,800        300     54,100           0      54,100
1995
lQ96                                     200                   200         1,670      1,870
2Q96                                     800                    800        1,860      2,660
3Q96                                     600                    600        7,120      7,720
4Q96                                     200                    200         400        600
Total           0             0         1,800          0      1,800       11,050     12,850
1996
1Q97                                     200                   200         1,722      1,922
2Q97                                     200                    200        3,050      3,250
3Q97                                                              0        2,478      2,478
4Q97                                                              0           0          0
Total           0             0          400           0        400        7,250      7,650
1997
Grand      50,000         2,000        4,000         300     56,300       18,300     74,600
Total
[ Table 3          Implementation Schedule for Containment and Cleanup
Item                   Description                   Start Date        Finish Date
A        IMC
1.     Contract Signature                 13 March 1995
2.     Phase 1 (1995)                     13 March 1995     1 June 1995
3.     Phase 11 (1995)                    1 June 1995       15 Nov. 1995
B        Social Expenditures                        1 March 1995
C        Environmental Management                   1 May 1995
D        Contract Monitoring                        1 March 1995



- 20 -
B. Pipeline Rehabilitation
63.          Notwithstanding the pipeline replacements which have been completed to date,
the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline remains in very poor condition, with significant risk of further
failures. Each day the pipeline continues to operate, the risk of spills increases. However, as
continued operation of the pipeline is essential to the economic survival of Komineft and its joint
venture partners, prompt solutions to reduce this risk are critical. The risk of failure can be
attributed to three potential causes: i) corrosion, ii) mechanical, and iii) operating practices risk.
Failure from corrosion is currently the most important risk to the system.  The risk of
mechanical failure of material or components is significantly less than the corrosion risk but is
still unacceptably high. Available facilities (or lack thereof) and ineffective operating procedures
also contribute to increasing the operating risk beyond acceptable limits.
64.          The proposed program of pipeline rehabilitation under the Project includes: (i)
immediate replacement of the remaining corroded portions of the middle and southern sections
of pipeline; (ii) repair or replacement of sections of pipe at risk of mechanical failure identified
through a program of integrity testing; (iii) investments to improve the operating regime, such
as water removal facilities, and installation of other equipment to improve operating and
maintenance practices and thereby reduce the risk of failure; and (iv) provision of emergency
response equipment.  Optimization studies of existing pipeline operations will also be
undertaken, as will strategic studies to determine future transport options.
65.          The Project as outlined should help establish a pipeline that has an acceptable and
maintainable level of risk. Because of the limited amount of data available to formulate this
Project it is expected that the scope of this program will change over time. The amount of funds
estimated to improve the mechanical condition of the line is subject to a high degree of variation.
As such, a higher than usual level of physical contingencies has been incorporated into the
Project plans.
66.          Emergency Replacement of Middle and Upper Southern Sections of the Pipeline.
Significant risk of another major spill can be removed by completing the replacement of the
remaining 12 km of the badly corroded 720 mm diameter line in the southern section of the
pipeline as quickly as possible. To accomplish this, the first 26 km of replacement of the middle
section must also be completed and tied-in to the existing line. This involves weighting and
backfilling 5 km of pipe and installing a short lateral. These critical works should be completed
prior to the spring thaw.
67.          Completion of replacement of the other parts of the 50 km middle section of the
pipeline is also important. Approximately 30 km of pipeline, in various stages of completion,
remains to be installed. Required works range from completion of pipe wrapping and trenching
in some sections to procurement of pipe and construction in other sections. Because of the
swampy conditions in the area much of the construction can only take place during the winter
when the ground is frozen. As of mid-March 1995, only 4 to 8 weeks before breakup remain
in the construction window. The only contractor that could possibly complete the critical sections
in that time frame is the local contractor that was constructing the middle section replacement
until funding ran out. The alternative is to wait until the next winter construction season (late
November 1995) which would mean a delay of approximately 7 months before completing
replacement of the middle section and remaining parts of the southern section of the pipeline.



- 21 -
The World Bank and EBRD have agreed that Komineft should engage the current contractor to
complete, on an emergency basis, the remaining work required to replace the middle section of
the pipeline and the last 12 km of the 720 mm southern section.
68.         This construction will be monitored and inspected by an international firm to
provide for the best quality construction possible under the conditions. In addition, the section
will be hydrotested to provide for some remediation of serious mechanical defects. The contract
with the local contractor will be structured to provide for rigorous quality and progress checks
with contract termination provided for if the targets are not met.
69.         Komineft has obtained bridge financing for the construction works until the Bank
loan is effective. This commercial bank loan will be secured by pledges of export sales.
70.         Pipeline Integrity Assessment, Remediation and Operational Improvements. After
completion of replacement of the middle section of the pipeline the highest risks of failure will
have been removed. However, the second element of unacceptably high risk on this line is
mechanical failure. The newly constructed southern and middle sections of the line and the
northern portion of the old line may have many mechanical defects that need to be removed or
repaired. Installation of the replacement sections of the line and the remediation of this line to
acceptable standards will provide a good base for improving the level of line integrity.
However, it is also important to undertake improvement in the operational facilities and practices
used on the line so that the situations which led to past failures are not repeated.
71.         The remediation to a lower and hopefully acceptable level of risk is possible using
currently available pipeline maintenance technology. A technical audit will be performed to
identify in detail the type and location of defects. This audit will be performed by an engineering
and inspection service firm. Both the internal and external condition of the line will be examined
by remote means to determine areas of weakness. Priority will be given to the worst defects, and
the ones posing the most threat will be examined and repaired. The proposed remediation work
will be contracted and will be completed to acceptable standards with the appropriate inspection
performed.
72.         Immediate operational improvements will be achieved through completion of two
partially constructed water removal facilities (KSP-74 and DNS-1) that are in various stages of
completion. Completion of these facilities will reduce the water content of the fluids transported
in the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline down to 6%. Corrosion inhibiting chemicals will also be
provided, if required. Because of the decrease in the water content, the amount of these
chemicals will be minimized. The project will provide facilities that will allow for pigging tools
to be introduced into the line which will allow for cleaning of the line and the introduction of
smart pigs to detect and monitor corrosion.
73.         Equipment required to conduct pipeline maintenance in a safe and efficient
manner, and which will provide for repairs to improve the quality of the line, will be provided.
An appropriate and effective pipeline maintenance program is the cornerstone in assessing and
maintaining the integrity of the pipeline. This equipment will include "stopple equipment" that
will allow for a continued but reduced flow of crude while maintenance is taking place. This will
solve the problem of maintenance being deferred because the line could not be shut down as a



- 22 -
result of pour point considerations. Additional equipment and supplies, suited to the terrain and
conditions, will be provided under the Project.
74.          To prevent failure due to overpressure of the line a pressure relief facility will be
provided. The exact configuration of this will be determined through hydraulic analysis. In the
course of the analysis appropriate methods for metering, control of the pipeline and leak
detection will be determined. This will improve pipeline control and provide information needed
to prevent pipeline failures and detect failures should they occur.
75.          Emergency Response Equipment. Provision of emergency response equipment and
training to allow Komineft to respond promptly and effectively to future emergencies is an
important component of the Project.
76.          Pipeline Operational and Strategic Studies. In addition to the pipeline investments,
the proposed Project provides for studies of current and future pipeline operations to maximize
the useful life of the existing pipeline, and for feasibility studies of future oil transport options,
including a possible new dry pipeline, in the region. The long term viability of the Kharyaga-
Usinsk pipeline is dependent not only on the quality of remediation investments undertaken, but
also on changing the operational practices of the pipeline and the gathering systems. It is
proposed that studies be undertaken to review the operating practices of the pipeline and
gathering lines in order to develop guidelines that will provide for the safe and efficient
operation of the line. Notwithstanding the proposed improvements of the existing line, Komineft
believes that development of a new dry pipeline will be required shortly, partly to accommodate
production from new field developments in the region. Studies are proposed to evaluate the
strategic options for future pipeline developments in the region and carry out associated
feasibility studies. The studies will require extensive participation on the part of Komineft
personnel and Komineft's local engineering institute.
77.          Costs and Implementation Schedule. Table 4 shows pipeline rehabilitation costs
by activity, Table 5 indicates expenditures by quarter over the Project life and Table 6
summarizes the key implementation tasks and dates. Costs for replacement of the middle and
southern sections of the pipeline include approximately US$ 10 million in expenditures already
undertaken by Komineft for emergency replacement of the southern section of the pipeline which
will not be financed by the World Bank or the EBRD.



- 23 -
Table 4                                    Pipeline Rehabilitation Costs by Activity
(US$'000) "
Activity                                        Foreign Costs      Local Costs        Sub-Total           Contingencies        Total Cost
A. Completion of the Southern and                            0           26,200             26,200                 3,750        29,950
Middle Sections
1. Completion of the middle prntion of the        0            16,000             16,000                3,750         19,750
pipeline from km 27 to km 90 plus laterals
2. Reptlaceme of Southern Section of              0            10,200             10,200                      0       10,200
pipeline (previous Komnineft expenditures)
B. Engineering and Inspection                          3,200                 800              4,000                  300         4,300
1. Comtruction Inspection and Control        1,150                                  1,150                   75         1,225
2. Pipeline Integrity Assessment             2,050                 800             2,850                   225         3,075
C.  Pipeline and Facilities Maint.                    16,700                    0            16,700                1,750        18,450
1. Pipeline Rehabilitation'                 10,000                                10,000                 1,100        11,100
2. Valve and Ancillary Equipment Reptar         950                                   950                    75         1,025
3. Water Removal Facilities                  2,000                                  2,000                  250         2,250
4. Other Facilities                          3,750                                  3,750                  325         4,075
D.  Material and Equipment                             5,300                    0             5,300                  500         5,800
1. Emergency Response Equipmnt               3,400                                 3,400                   300         3,700
2. Other Equipment                           1,500                                  1,500                  150          1,650
3. Corrsion-inhibiting Chemicals               400                                    400                    50           450
E.  Pipeline Strategy Studies,                         5,000                    0             5,000                     0        5,000
including Expansion Alternatives
1. Studies                                   5,000                                 5,000                               5,000
TOTAL2                                                30,200             27,000             57,200                 6,300        63,500
I         This amount is based on 400 cut-outs at a cost of $25,000 each over the total 146 krn pipeline.
2         Project costs do not include import duties or VAT.



- 24 -
Table 5          Pipeline Rehabilitation Costs by Quarter (by Foreign and Local)
(US$ '000)
Quarter      Foreign Costs        Local Costs         Contingencies        Grand Total
lQ95                        0                11,550                   0             11,550
2Q95                    1,000                7,621                     0             8,621
3Q95                    2,000                6,464                     0             8,464
4Q95                    6,301                   75                   405             6,781
Total 1995              9,301               25,710                   405            35,416
1Q96                    5,188                  690                  680              6,558
2Q96                    4,709                  200                 1,788             6,697
3Q96                    3,703                  200                 1,445             5,348
4Q96                    4,150                  200                   616             4,966
Total 1996             17,750                 1,290                4,529            23,569
1Q97                    2,296                                        389             2,685
2Q97                      353                                        677             1,030
3Q97                      500                                        300               800
Total 1997              3,149                    0                 1,366             4,515
Grand Total            30,200               27,000                 6,300            63,500



- 25 -
Table 6              Implemnentation Schedule for Pipeline Rehabilitation
Item                    Description                      Start Date        Finish Date
A         Construction
1.     Completion of the Middle Section from    March 1995      August 1995
km 27 to km 90 plus laterals
2.     Construction Inspection and Control   March 1995         August 1995
B         Inspection and Engineering                                                       l
1.     Pipeline Integrity Assessment         May 1995           December 1995
2.     Operational System Study              July 1995          March 1996
C         Pipeline and Facilities Remediation
1.     Repair and Rehabilitation             November 1995    June 1997
2.     Pressure Relief Facilities            April 1996         December 1996
3.     Water Removal Facilities              April 1995         January 1996
4.     Metering and Instrumentation          January 1996       June 1996
5.     Supervisory Control and Data          April 1996         June 1997
Acquisition
6.     Leak Detection                        April 1997         June 1997
7.     Corrosion Inhibiting Chemicals        October 1995      January 1996
8.     Technical Assistance and Training     March 1996         September 1996
D         Emergency Response Preparation
1.     Equipment and Training                October 1995       December 1996
E         Pipeline Strategy Studies (including Expansion  July 1995       April 1997
Alternatives)                                                 I __



- 26 -
C. Technical Assistance
78.          Environmental and Socio-Economic Management and Monitoring of the Clean- Up.
The Project will include technical assistance to strengthen and improve institutional capacity to
manage activities necessary to mitigate against the effects of the spilled oil. The technical
assistance has four major sub-components: (i) environmental and socio-economic advisors to
assist Komineft in spill management and undertaking related studies; (ii) implementation of
environmental monitoring by local institutes; (iii) studies to evaluate the technical and economic
feasibility of cleanup through bioremediation and revegetation; and (iv) public consultations,
information and participation. An international environmental consultant will be responsible to
manage and implement these sub-components the majority of which will be undertaken by
Russian specialists. The total cost of these services is estimated to be US$ 4 million. Each sub-
component is outlined below.
79.          Technical assistance will be provided to Komineft in order to ensure that the
critical phases of containment and cleanup operations are effectively carried out. Technical
advisors, both foreign and local, will work on site directly with the IMC and with Russian
institutes which will be sub-contracted to carry out specialized studies. The following six
technical  advisors  are  envisioned:  (i)  oil  spill  operations  advisor;  (ii)  civil
engineering/geotechnical advisor; (iii) socio-economic advisor; (iv) environmental monitoring
advisor; (v) bioremediation   and revegetation advisor; and (vi) environmental/project
management advisor. The general role for each of the advisors is to provide oversight
supervision on the effectiveness, goals, and quality of cleanup work planned by the IMC. They
will also train project scientists and assist in the design of scientific studies on environmental
monitoring of the effects of the spilled oil, which will be carried out by Russian scientific
institutes, with oversight monitoring being the responsibility of government environmental
agencies.
80.          As part of its assignment, the international environmental consultant will manage
and assist in the supervision and design of the various environmental monitoring activities. The
overall objective of monitoring will be to assure protection of human health and protection of
priority environmental resources, including resource harvesting and animal husbandry activities.
The field environmental monitoring will be carried out by scientific personnel, under multi-year
sub-contracts, either to scientific institutes or individuals for specific sub-activities.
81.          Specialized studies on the limitations, effectiveness and costs for bioremediation
and revegetation measures will be undertaken to develop low-cost cleanup technologies for the
subarctic conditions in the Komi region. The complete removal of all oil residues remaining after
gross oil cleanup, using conventional mechanical means, will be prohibitively expensive and will
likely disturb and denude large areas of fragile subarctic vegetation. Scientific institutes will be
commissioned to examine such limiting factors as cold temperatures, low oxygen content in
poorly drained soils, low nutrient availability, rates of oil degradation, effects of produced salt
water released from the pipeline, both in the international and Russian scientific literature and
through field plot testing.



- 27 -
82.           Technical assistance for public participation and consultation will be provided to
ensure that consultative/participative programs are implemented for affected communities within
a 120 km radius of the spill zone. Local specialists and institutes have been and will be
commissioned to provide assistance in the active participation of downstream villages in defining
emergency needs and to ensure that timely information about the Project is provided.
83.           Contract Monitoring. Technical assistance has been provided to help Komineft
monitor the containment and cleanup and emergency pipeline replacement contracts. An
international inspection company has been appointed for these services. The total cost is
approximately US$ 0.3 million.
84.           Project Management. Technical assistance to strengthen Komineft's institutional
capacity in the areas of procurement, financial management and public relations will be
provided. The total cost is approximately US$ 1.9 million.
D. Total Project Costs
Table 7 summarizes total Project costs.
Table 7                      Total Project Costs
(US$ '000)
Local Costs   Foreign Costs    Total Costs
Oil Spill Recovery                       20,200           36,100          56,300
Containment and Cleanup                16,000           34,000          50,000
Social Expenditures                     1,200              800           2,000
Environmental Management                3,000             1,000          4,000
Contract Monitoring                                        300             300
Mitigation                               27,000            30,200         57,200
Pipeline Replacement Completion        26,200                0          26,200
Pipeline Remediation and                    0            16,700         16,700
Operational Improvements
Engineering and Inspection                800            3,200           4,000
Emergency Response and                      0            5,300           5,300
Maintenance Enhancements
Pipeline Operation and Strategy             0             5,000          5,000
Studies
Project Management                           0             1,900           1,900
Contingency Sub-Projects                 10,450            14,150         24,600
TOTAL COST                               57,650            82,350        140,000



- 28 -
E. Environmental Aspects
85.         Environmental Monitoring. Environmental monitoring will commence at the very
beginning of the Project and continue until its end. The overall objective is to assure protection
of human health and protection of priority environmental resources, including resource
harvesting activities. Monitoring activities will focus on: (i) air quality in areas where spilled
oil may be burned; (ii) surface and groundwater quality; (iii) potable water sources in riverside
villages; (iv) the effects of spilled saline production water on vegetation; (v) the effects of the
spill sites on wildlife and aquatic life, and; (vi) monitoring for leaks from the pipeline.
86.          Pipeline Leak Detection. Until permanent leak detection is installed (estimated
to be mid-1997), interim pipeline leak detection will be carried out through twice-weekly aerial
surveillance. Environmental monitoring of the pipeline will also include surveillance for
excessive terrain disturbance of the right-of-way by the construction equipment.
87.          Other Environmental Mitigation included in the Project. The primary objective
of the Project is the mitigation of environmental and social impacts from the oil spills through
oil removal and site restoration. However, additional mitigation activities have been incorporated
into the Project and are summarized below:
(a)   Emergency social expenditures to mitigate immediate impacts to downstream
residents and herders, including provision of safe water supplies and forage for
livestock;
(b)   Contingency projects such as: (i) emergency response on the Usa and Pechora
rivers; (ii) emergency responses to new pipeline spills; and (iii) maintenance of
oil containment structures through the winters of 1995-96 and 1996-97;
(c)   Technical assistance for environmental and socio-economic management,
including: (i) provisions for technical advisors to Komineft to assist them in
developing environmental guidelines for implementation of Phase I and II cleanup
activities; (ii) technical assistance to carry out environmental monitoring that will
provide information on impacted resources so that sensitive resources are
adequately protected; and (iii) technical assistance in developing appropriate and
low-cost final cleanup and site restoration methods, based on operationally-
oriented and peer-reviewed scientific studies.
F. Public Consultation
88.         Involvement of the communities affected by the spills and local NGOs is an
important component of the consultation process. In February 1995 a preliminary consultation
process was initiated by Komineft with the assistance of a socio-economic consultant familiar
with such processes under similar conditions in Canada, financed by the Canadian Government.
Informal contacts with a major international environmental NGO were followed by local NGO
consultations and preliminary interviews with officials in Usinsk, Syktyvkar, and the downstream
affected villages of Kolva, Ust-Usa, Novibozh, Schelyabozh, Zaharvan, Denisovka, Mutnyy
Materik and Vaskino. The initial phases of the consultation process included discussion of



- 29 -
emergency needs, resulting from current and future impacts of oil spills and the cleanup
operations underway.
89.            The villagers were asked to rank their needs for emergency relief in areas of
health concerns, water supply, transportation services, availability of fuel, waste disposal and
sanitation, and feed and grazing for domestic livestock. These initial community rankings will
be used as a guide to establish priorities and protocols for immediate emergency services related
to the oil spills. The consultation process was augmented by a more detailed community-based
survey. The results from the survey will be incorporated into plans for mitigation of affected
villages. The results of the initial consultation are summarized in the following table, with 1
being the highest-ranked relief need, and 6 representing the least critical need.
90.            The continuing  consultation  process as planned  will include the regional
downstream communities, particularly those potentially affected by spills, and regional state
farms which have expressed concerns regarding reindeer husbandry. These latter concerns also
include maintenance and control of access to annual migratory routes, particularly those which
intersect hydrocarbon transportation corridors, the areas of large oil spills, and future areas
where cleanup activities may be carried out. In particular, specific mitigation measures should
include supplemental feeding (including the importation of suitable nutritional substitutes), and
enhanced animal husbandry and veterinary services. The result of these consultations will be
development of the program of social assistance to affected communities to be funded under the
Project as described in section A above.
Table 8: Priorities for Emergency Needs of Downstream Villages'
Village2 '      Pop.3       Water      Health      Fuel  |_Trans.        Feed    Sanitation
Kolva           454          2           4          6          3          1          5
Ust-Usa          1521         1          3           6          2          4          5
Novikbozh         633          2           3          6          5          1          4
Schelyabozh        703          1          2           4          3          5          6
Zaharvan          406          1          3          5           4         2           6
Denisovka         648          1           2          4          5          3          6
Mutnyy Materik       1228         1          2          4           5         3           6
Vaskino          101          2           1          6          4          3          5
Each village was asked to provide its prioritized list of requirements from the following:
o      health (community health care and medical supplies)
o      water (supply and quality of potable water)
o      transportation (access for supplies, health care, education, emergency services)
o      fuel (wood, gasoline, diesel, electrical and heating equipment)
o      waste disposal (sanitation)
o      feed (domestic livestock and reindeer, loss to grazing, feed shortages).
2,     Villages are listed in ascending order from the spill sites; Vaskino is 125 km from the spill site.
3.     Based on 1989 Census Data.



- 30 -
91.          Consideration will be given to alternate approaches to compensation which provide
a more equitable settlement of disputes than the present system of pollution payments to regional
authorities and should encompass items such as emergency supplies, habitat enhancement and
protection, and possible related benefits through training to provide opportunities for enhanced
employment activities. The public consultation process will provide a focus for ongoing
assessment of human heath effects related to degraded supplies of water and foods from
sustainable sources.
92.          Local villagers could provide assistance to contractors and operators involved in
cleanup operations near the villages. As part of the social delivery mechanism, training of these
local residents could be carried out with a view to longer-term employment opportunities in
environmental mitigation, monitoring, and oil spill emergency response.
93.          Public information programs will be carried out to ensure that affected and
interested residents downstream of spills are informed on a frequent and timely basis about the
progress of the planned oil spill containment and cleanup activities. Many residents, particularly
at Usinsk, have expressed health concerns related to burning associated with cleanup measures.
Notification about burning and coordination with local officials, could serve to significantly
reduce or alleviate these concerns.
G. Regional and National Mitigation Efforts
94.          While not part of the Project, to address the broader issue of pipeline integrity
across Russia with an aim to identifying problems common to regional oil transport systems, it
is envisioned that the Ministry of Fuel and Power will coordinate an overview of the Komi and
north western regional pipeline system, based mainly on studies already undertaken/completed
and supplemented, as required, by targeted additional studies of specific issues. Factors essential
to the acceptance of and rapid completion of the study will be: (i) ownership of the study by
interested Russian parties (Transneft, regional authorities, federal ministries, etc.); (ii)
involvement of qualified Russian consultants; (iii) relevance to regional environmental issues;
(iv) avoidance of duplication of other ongoing or recently completed studies; and (v) concrete
recommendations for action.
H. Economic Justification, Risks and Mitigation Options
95.          The proposed Project consists of three main components: (i) spill containment,
cleanup, and assistance to affected peoples; (ii) Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline rehabilitation to
support its safe operations in the near term; (iii) identification, preparation and implementation
of other measures to prevent emergencies of this kind from recurring.
96.          In addition to helping minimize the ecological damage caused by the oil spills, the
benefits of the Project include operational improvements of the pipeline to ensure safe
uninterrupted operations in the future, training of the Komineft employees in emergency
response and establishment of a fully equipped and trained emergency response unit, greatly
reducing the risk of similar accidents, and improvement of the Komineft's environmental impact
monitoring capabilities. Project implementation will result in significant opportunities for local
contractors and suppliers. Without the Project, the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline would likely be
shut-down in the near term as failures escalated on the middle section of the pipeline.



- 31 -
97.         The net economic cost of shutting down the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline, at present
transporting over US$ 750 million worth of oil (in world market prices) per annum and
supporting the employment of over 20,000 people, is approximately US$ 400 million per annum.
Project costs are equivalent to the economic loss resulting from four months pipeline outage.
However, complete pipeline shutdown would also entail significant damage to oil wells and
gathering lines due to solidification of the oil. The economic cost of long term outage of the
pipeline and loss of production capability far exceeds the cost of the Project (including all
containment and clean-up costs). The Benefit-Cost Ratio is in excess of 15. From this base,
Project economic returns are very robust.
98.         Financial Evaluation. As described above the overall financial return to the
Project is large as the alternative may complete shut down of pipeline and oil production. The
direct financial return from the pipeline remediation component can be measured by the present
tariffs of US$ 3.75 per ton paid to Komineft by local private companies. Assuming the present
capacity utilization constant, the annual pipeline tariffs generation potential is in excess of US$
25 million. The financial return based on the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline revenue generation
potential, over the expected 10 years life of the replaced infrastructure, would be in excess of
30%, and the Project's net present value - in excess of $65 millon at a 15% discount rate. With
separation facilities completed pipeline life could be longer. This calculations assumes a
reasonable allowance to cover maintenance and operating expenditures, arrived at on the basis
of comparable international operations.
99.         Risks and Mitigating Measures. There is a significant risk of Komineft's inability
to complete the most urgent repairs on the middle section of the pipeline prior to the spring
thaw, which will greatly increase the possibility of new leaks occurring. This risk relates to the
lack of time left for the pipeline repairs in the 1994-1995 winter construction season. This risk
will be reduced by the use of a local contractor already mobilized on the site. Although the
capabilities of the pipeline contractor may not be fully adequate for the magnitude of the
emergency replacement program, further delays related to selection and mobilization of other
contractors will result in a greater risk of no pipeline replacement activities being undertaken
before the spring thaw. The construction risk will be managed through third party inspection
and monitoring services. However, there is still a risk that Komineft and its contractors' fail
to complete critical containment, clean-up and pipeline replacement works before the spring
thaw. Given the emergency and unprecedented nature of the Project, undertaken in an extremely
difficult environment, only partial success is expected. To mitigate the potential impact of the
deficiencies in the containment structures or pipeline replacement design and implementation,
emphasis is put on allowing sufficient contingency elements in the Project definition to enable
Komineft to respond immediately to any such failure.
100.        It should be noted that about three-quarters of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline
capacity is used to transport Komineft oil. The value of such oil and, accordingly, the value of
the transportation services needed to bring it to the customers depends on the implementation
by the Russian authorities of policies stimulating oil production and reinvestment of the
generated revenue. If this does not occur in the short term, the actual financial return of the
Project could be much lower.



- 32 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementing Agency JSC Komineft
101.        The Implementing Agency for this project will be the Open Type Joint Stock
Company Komineft, controlled by the KomiTEK holding company.
JSC Komineft: Legal Status and Ownership.
102.        The Open-type (Public) Joint Stock Company Komineft (JSC Komineft) was
established on April 21, 1993 on the basis of a decision of the Property Management Committee
of the Komi Republic in accordance with Decree #1403 of the President of the Russian
Federation (On Privatization and Transformation into Joint Stock Companies of State
Enterprises, Production and Research Associations of Oil, Oil Refining and Petroleum Product
Supply Sectors, November 17, 1992). Subsequently, on May 6, 1993, JSC Komineft was
registered by the Ukhta city administration (registration # 451p). The main activities of JSC
Komineft are determined by its charter and registration certificate as oil and gas production and
processing, and exploration and development of oil fields. JSC Komineft holds oil and associated
gas exploration and production licenses for most oil fields of the Timan-Pechora petroliferous
province which includes territories of the Komi Republic and neighboring Nenets Autonomous
Okrug (Arkhangelsk Oblast).
103.        Initially, 38%  of shares were transferred, in equal proportions, to the state
property funds of the Russian Federation and Komi Republic, 40% were distributed and sold to
JSC Komineft employees and management, and the remaining 22% were allocated for sale at
voucher auctions and investment tenders. Subsequently, the state-owned block of Komineft
shares has been transferred to the JSC Oil Company KomiTEK, established on June 27, 1994
by a decision of the governments of the Russian Federation and the Komi Republic. As of March
15, 1995, Komineft had 52,000 shareholders (including natural and juridical persons), with the
Russian Federation and Komi Republic each owning 19% of the stock issue.
104.        Under the Komineft charter, KomiTEK (or another holder of over 25% of the
voting shares) is vested with the right to veto any decision of the general meetings of the
shareholders related to changes in the charter, capital, or mergers and acquisitions. In addition,
Komineft cannot enter into any agreement, the value of which is in excess of 25% of the
Komineft capital, without the approval of more than three-quarters of its shareholders. At
present, KomiTEK also has an effective right to appoint Komineft directors, including the
Director General.
105.        The JSC Komineft includes 2 affiliate joint stock companies, an affiliate
enterprise, and more than 40 structural units. Among the latter are 5 oil and gas production
directorates (Russian abbreviation - NGDUs), 2 drilling directorates, transportation units,
research and design institutes, agricultural enterprises, etc. The management structure of the JSC
Komineft is largely similar to that of its legal predecessor, Producing Association Komineft, and
as well to those of other Russian oil companies.



- 33 -
106.        The Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline is operated and maintained on a contractual basis
by the JSC Etan, a Komineft affiliate company, and is a part of the assets of the NGDU
Arkhangelskneftegas, wholly owned by Komineft. Produced fluid is separated and processed to
sale quality oil by the affiliate JSC, Comprehensive Oil Preparation.
JSC Komineft: Operations and Financial Status
107.        Location. Until 1991, Komineft was the only oil producing enterprise in Komi
Republic and a monopoly holder of the rights for development of the Republic's oil reserves.
It was also active in development of the oil resources of the Arkhangelsk region and planned to
proceed with the production of the reservoirs on the territory of the adjacent Nenets Autonomous
Region. At present, practically all of Komineft's operations are in the Komi republic, while it
still holds the rights for development of 20.5 % of the Nenets Autonomous Region oil reserves.
In the Komi Republic, Komineft together with its affiliated companies holds 71.2% of the oil
reserves.
108.        Reserves.  Since 1991, Komineft has actively pursued a strategy of joint
development of its fields together with international and Russian investors. By the end of 1994,
48.1 % of the formerly controlled Komineft oil reserves were transferred to such joint ventures.
The most significant of these are KomiArcticOil along with Gulf Canada and British Gas and
Nobel Oil along with Glencore International. The estimated remaining volume of proven and
probable reserves being developed by Komineft is approximately 348 million barrels.
109.        Production. After achieving peak oil production of 380,000 bpd (19 million tons
per annum) in 1984-1985 Komineft's production has steadily declined. This process accelerated
during the years 1992-1994. Over these three years Komineft's oil production declined by 47%
and a further 13% decline is expected in 1995. Since 1992, due to the lack of financial
resources Komineft has not brought any new oil fields into production (which is vital for the
maintenance of output).
110.        Financial Position. The summary information onKomineft's financial performance
in 1992-1994 outlined below, based on unaudited financial statements, shows the deterioration
of the company's financial situation which has contributed to and resulted from the current
problems.



- 34 -
Table 9
Komineft Key Financial Performance Figures
(US$ mln)
1991       1992    1993             1994
a) Balance Sheet                                                         (9 months)
Fixed Assets'                        20.6       191.4         120.4     1,082.8
Goods in Circulation                  1.2        6.1          35.8      68.8
Receivables                           1.9       46.6          161.9    228.4
Cash                                  0.3         3.7          15.9      11.7
Total Assets                         24.5       249.3          347.2     1,476.1
Short Term Loans                      0.6        13.4         12.8      48.1
Payables                              1.6       48.2          213.2    347.5
Other Liabilities                     0.5         6.7         5.7       25.0
Long Term Loans                    N/A           2.4          3.5       0.6
Equity                               21.7       178.6          111.9     1,055.0
Total Liabilities                    24.7       249.2          347.2     1,476.1
Net Loss                           N/A            1.9         13.1      84.4
b) Oil Production (mln tons)           15.2         9.6          7.8       5.1
c) Employment (thousands)            N/A           31.9          27.0      21.0
Note: The value of the Komineft assets has never been subject to an independent evaluation. The
apparent increases in the US$ value of the company's assets and share capital is primarily due to
regular revaluation of assets pursuant to governmental orders. No allowance has been made to take
into account inadequate correlation between Russian inflation and US$/Rb exchange rate.
Table 10
Profitability of Komineft Local Sales in 1994
(US$/bbl)
Average Price                                 4.71                    100%
Revenue Based Taxes                           1.24                    26%
Taxes Included in the Costs of Production     1.54                    33%
Profit Based Taxes                           0.57                     12%
Sub-Total Taxes*                              3.35                    71%
Cost of Production                            3.86                    82%
Profit/(Loss)                                (2.49)                   (53%)
* in total 23 taxes were applied to Komineft in 1994.
111.          Although Komineft is a relatively high cost producer compared to West Siberian
oil companies, the main reason for Komineft's poor performance is the continuing policies of
the Russian government with respect oil prices and taxation and to the problem of non-payments,
primarily from the state controlled industry.



- 35 -
112.        During the course of 1994, Komineft was exempt from payment of export tariffs
and was allowed to export approximately 14% of its production.  Following the recent
liberalization of the crude oil export market, Komineft is expected to increase its exports up to
25% of its production but will have to pay full export tariffs. Overall, Komineft's financial
situation should improve with expected additional exports. Preliminary results of the first
quarter of 1995 show a positive income.
113.        Future Prospects. A sharp increase of the Russian internal oil prices is unlikely
in the immediate term due to continued problems with demand and payments from otherwise
insolvent enterprises and from government institutions. In the short term reallocation of profits
realized within the integrated oil company KomiTEK may be required to support Komineft.
114.        Improvement of Komineft's financial performance in the medium term will depend
on the overall development of the Russian economy, including improvement of the budgetary
planning and tax collection procedures leading to a more equal distribution of the tax burden
throughout the economy and allowing oil producers to begin reinvestment to realize the potential
of the remaining reserves.
115.         During Negotiations, Komineft agreed to the following financial performance
measures: (i) maintenance of satisfactory levels of working capital including a current ratio of
not less than 1.25 with account receivables at no greater than 60 days sales and accounts payable
at not greater than 75 days cash expenses; and (ii) cash flow adequate to ensure a debt service
ratio of not less than 1.5. In addition, Komineft will establish a pipeline reserve fund to finance
maintenance on the pipeline after the project is completed which will be formalized in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
B. Management Structure for Project Imnplementation
116.        Komineft has established a senior project management team (PIU) to direct,
review, and approve the activities conducted by the IMC and its sub-contractors and the pipeline
contractors. A core team will be committed to the project for its duration. The overall project
manager and two deputy project managers, have been appointed, one responsible for cleanup
activities, the other for pipeline activities. The demands on the PIU will initially be extreme,
requiring the team to spend much time making sure that the Project is progressing successfully.
The PIU will have both the authority and technical expertise to direct the Project and make
policy decisions. A second level of Komineft staff will be assigned to the various functional
groups of planning, operations, logistics, and finance, to direct the day-to-day activities of the
project. Team members will have clearly defined roles and responsibilities and clear areas of
authority. Details of PIU functions and organization are provided in Attachment 1 to this
Technical Annex. Technical assistance will also be provided under the Project to support
Komineft in the areas of procurement, contract and financial management. Agreement was
reached during Negotiations that Komineft will maintain adequate staffing of the PIU,
acceptable to the Bank.



- 36 -
C. Government Management Structure and Permit Clearance Procedures
117.        In order to facilitate rapid Project implementation a high level Emergency Oil
Spill Recovery and Mitigation Project Working Group has been established by the Russian
Government to resolve legal, administrative, fiscal and general implementation issues and
expedite necessary clearances. The Working Group is chaired by the Minister of Fuel and
Energy and includes high level representation from the Russian Federation, the Komi Republic
and Komineft. In addition to Komineft this group will be the key focal point for the Bank's
supervision of the Project.
118.        At the local level the Usinsk City Land Use Commission acts as a 'clearing house'
for local permits. For construction of facilities, such as disposal pits for contaminated soils or
temporary containment dikes in the Ust-Usinsky region, applications are vetted by a number of
local committees including: the forestry committee; state farms, where applicable; the city
environmental committee; the city architect; and the land use committee. Once preliminary
design documents have been produced, the land use commission initiates the reviews and submits
a documentation package to Syktyvkar. A May 23, 1990 Resolution of the Komi Republic
Council of Ministers allows for the establishment of boundaries of water protection zones and
riparian strips along rivers, lakes and water reservoirs in the Komi Republic. Authorizations
for activities in those zones must be sought from the local branches of the Komi State
Environmental Committee. Water protection zones along the Kolva River are 1 km in width and
for the Khatayakha tributary 0.5 km in width.
119.        The Government of the Komi Republic, recognizing the crucial importance in
emergency operations of prompt issuance of necessary permits and clearances, has approved and
issued a special resolution (provided as Attachment 2 to this Annex) authorizing the Deputy
Head of the Republic, Chairman of the Komi Standing Commission for Emergency Situations,
to provide Komineft, the IMC, and its subcontractors, all required permits, clearances, and
licenses under streamlined procedures through his local representative.
D. Financing Plan and Co-Financing
120.         The financing plan for the Project is outlined in Table 11 and includes an IBRD
loan of US$ 99 million and an EBRD loan of US$ 25 million. Komineft will be responsible for
payment of all taxes and levies related to the procurement of equipment and services for the
Project implementation. In accordance with Russian government resolutions providing for a tax-
exempt status of sovereign-guaranteed loans obtained from international financial institutions,
these expenses may be waived or deferred.
Table 11
Financing Plan
US$ million         % of Total
Komineft                 16.0               11.0%
IBRD                     99.0               71.0%
EBRD                     25.0               18.0%
Total                   $140.0              100.0%



- 37 -
121.         The IBRD and EBRD will jointly finance, in the ratio of 80/20 the following
contracts under the Project: (i) containment and cleanup; (ii) emergency pipeline replacement;
and (iii) contingencies relating to these parts of the Project. EBRD will finance the pipeline
studies and the World Bank will finance the remaining parts of the Project. The agreement of
the Banks as to the financing arrangements was based on the objective of minimizing potential
delays caused by different procurement procedures and minimizing the need for contract review
by both institutions.
122.        The Bank and EBRD will sign a co-lenders agreement covering disbursement
procedures, information sharing and remedies in the event of default.
123.        The Bank and EBRD loans will be made to the Russian Federation and on-lent
to Komineft under separate Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Completion of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements acceptable to the World Bank and the EBRD are a condition of Effectiveness for
each Loan. The term of the on-lending for the World Bank loan will be 15 years including 5
years grace with the interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus 75 basis points. Komineft will
assume the foreign exchange risk of the Loan while the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is in effect.
The EBRD expects its loan of 15 years including 3 years grace to the Russian Federation to be
on-lent at 14 years including 3 years grace.
E. Procurement
124.        The work to be performed on the Project will be carried out under six major
contracts: (i) a management contract for oil spill containment and clean-up (US $45 million); (ii)
an emergency pipeline replacement completion contract (US $16.0 million); (iii) an
environmental monitoring and management contract (US $4.0 million); (iv) an independent
monitoring contract to check compliance by the management and emergency pipeline contractors
with the technical and commercial conditions of their contracts (US $0.3 million); (v) a pipeline
inspection and testing contract (US $3.2 million); and (vi) a pipeline and facilities remediation
contract (US$ 16.7 million). Contracts (i) and (ii) have been procured using the Bank's
Procurement and Use of Consultants Guidelines and will be jointly co-financed with EBRD in
the ratio of 80/20. Contracts (iii), (v) and (vi) will be entirely financed by the Bank and contract
(iv) entirely by the EBRD on a parallel co-financing basis with each Bank using its own
procurement rules. The EBRD will also finance a future contract for pipeline operations and
strategy studies.
125.        Given the emergency nature of the Project, contracts (i) and (ii) have been
awarded on a sole-source basis to the firms most capable of meeting the essential criteria for
successful performance of those contracts. Contracts (iii) and (v) will be awarded using the
Bank's competitive consultant selection procedures as outlined in the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants.  Contract (iv) was awarded using the EBRD's consultant selection
procedures. Contract (vi) will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
preceded by prequalification. Goods, works and services relating to the improvement of KMN's
emergency spill response capacity (US $5.3 million) and social assistance sub-projects (US $2
million) will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB), Limited International
Bidding (LIB), international or national shopping or direct contracting procedures, or the
selection procedures contained in the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, depending
on the value of the potential contract and the nature of the item to be procured. Goods contracts



- 38 -
valued at US $200,000 or more will be procured using ICB procedures with eligible Russian
manufacturers entitled to the Bank's domestic preference for goods in the evaluation of bids.
126.        KMN, in cooperation with the Bank and EBRD, has already undertaken a large
amount of advance procurement and will have entered into two key contracts described above
by the time the loan is presented to the Board. Retroactive financing of up to $20 million will
be permitted under the Loan Agreement, although it is likely that only US $18 million will be
needed for contracts (i) and (ii) described above. The maximum level of retroactive financing
is 20.2% of the Loan amount, which is not materially above the amount permitted under Bank
guidelines for Emergency Recovery Assistance in OD 8.50. The Bank has already reviewed, or
will review prior to award, the procedures and documents used for all the key contracts jointly
cofinanced under the Project. It has also reviewed the Terms of Reference for the independent
monitor's contract, the environmental monitoring and management contract, and the testing and
inspection services contract. Future contracts for goods and works valued at US $200,000 or
more and all contracts entered into using LIB and direct contracting procedures will be subject
to prior Bank review. Consultant contracts of a critical nature and those valued at US $50,000
or more will also be subject to prior Bank review. Further details are provided in Attachment
3 to this Annex.
F. Disbursements
127.        The Disbursement Arrangements for the Project are summarized in Schedule B
of the Memorandum of the President.
G. Accounts and Audits
128.        Komineft has appointed an international accounting firm to provide audit services
for 1994 which is expected to continue in this capacity in 1995. During Negotiations, Komineft
agreed to furnish to the Bank:
(a)   Actual and forecast financial statements, within three months of the end of each
fiscal year;
(b)   Audited project accounts beginning with the account for fiscal year 1995, within
six months of the end of each fiscal year; and
(c)   Audited financial statements of Komineft (including a qualified restatement in
accordance with IAS if required) showing its performance and position beginning
with fiscal year 1995, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year.
H. Supervision Plan
129.        Supervision of the Project will require intensive Bank staff involvement for the
first six months of implementation in order to provide Komineft with support during
implementation of the key cleanup and emergency pipeline remediation activities. A formal
review of the Project is planned for the fall of 1995 after completion of Phase I of the
containment operations and the emergency pipeline replacement works.



- 39 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND ACTIONS
130.        Agreements. To facilitate implementation of the Project the Head of the Komi
Republic has signed two decrees to accelerate project implementation: (i) permits, licenses and
cleanup methods will be approved by one government official on an emergency basis; and (ii)
the $75 million in fines imposed on Komineft by the local environmental authority for spills,
which accrue to the Komi Republic will be used by Komineft for Project implementation.
131.        During negotiations, Komineft agreed to the following future actions with respect
to Project implementation: (i) maintenance of a Project Implementation Unit with acceptable
management and specialists; (ii) provision of effective and timely social assistance to affected
communities; (iii) maintenance of a 1.5 debt service ratio; (iv) maintenance of acceptable levels
of working capital; (v) submission of audited Project accounts and financial statements by an
auditor acceptable to the Bank; and (vi) preparation of a project completion report.
132.        With respect to timely and effective assistance to affected communities Komineft
agreed that if the needs for assistance exceed Komineft's ability to mobilize resources Komineft
will utilize contingency funds in the Project under the IMC.
133.        Actions. Conditions of Loan Effectiveness include: (i) signature of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Russian Federation and Komineft; (ii) receipt of legal opinions in
respect to the Loan Agreement, Project Agreement and the subsidiary loan agreement; and (iii)
effectiveness of the EBRD loan.



- 40 -
Attachment 1
RussL4N FEDERATION
EMERGENCY OIL SPILL RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
IMPLEmENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Organization
1.                Because of the urgency of Phase I of the cleanup, it will be conducted in
an emergency mode, and Komineft management must be prepared to review and approve the
recommendations of the IMC on a very quick turnaround. Phase II activities will be conducted
in a manner more consistent with normal project management, with more time allowed for
planning, review, and decision-making.
2.          The general PIU organization is shown in Figure 1. Similar organizations have
been employed in other emergency spill operations around the world. Komineft can become as
mivolved in managing the day-to-day operations of the cleanup as it wants, by having Komineft
representatives on all levels of management. In the organization plan in Figure 1, Komineft staff
are the Team Leaders (TL) for each primary functional group in the organization.
B. General Management Philosophy
3.         In contracts such as this, it is normal and important that the contractor be given
maximum latitude to make day-to-day decisions without having to seek review and approval.
Under these conditions it is important that Komineft establish a strong monitoring capacity and
work approval procedures which provide clear guidance up front. Thus, the general work plan
should be approved, and the IMC should be required only to seek review and approvals for
deviations from the approved procedures.



- 41 -
Figure 1
Proposed Organization for the Komineft PIU
Functional      Planning         Operations          Logscs               FThance            Publc Relations
Team
Team          Komineft TL      Komineft TL       Komineft TL         Komnineft TL           Komineft TL
Members       Procurement      Procurement       Procurement         Accounting Firm        Technical Advisors
Advisor          Advisor           Advisor             Procurement Advisor   -International
IMC              IMC               IMC                 IMC                    -Russian
Subcontractors    Subcontractors   Subcontractors      Subcontractors
Technical        Inspection Firm
Advisors
-International
-Russian
Activities    - Technical      - Work Orders     - Equipment         - Cost Documentation   - Public Affairs
- Regulatory     - Scheduling      - Personnel         - Invoices             - Community
- Environmental   - Site supervision  - Transportation  - Payables            Relatons
- Social         - Waste handling/  - Maintenance      - Disbursements
Mitigation       treatment         - Facilities        - Financial Reporting
- Procurement and - Security
Contract          - Communication
Management        - Medical
- Translation
Services
Note: TL = Team Leader
C. The Project Organization and Responsibilities
4.             The key activities to be conducted by selected parts of the response organization
are briefly outlined below.
5.             The Komineft Senior Project Management Team  will meet daily with the
Contractor Spill Management Team to receive a status report on the previous day's effort and
review, approve the next day's work plans, and resolve problems. They will be responsible for:
o      Approving  the general cleanup  strategies  and  priorities proposed  by  the
Contractor;
o      Approving site-specific work orders;
o      Reviewing daily work priorities;
o      Monitoring the effectiveness and costs of the cleanup;
o      Approving the cleanup costs;
o      Solving problems that the IMC cannot resolve on its own, such as those related
to Govermment clearances;
o      Facilitating access to and contracting with local resources;
o      Responding to requests for information from the public;
o      Enforcing cleanup standards; and
o      Overall project administration.



- 42 -
6.          Public Relations consists of two different groups: a Public Affairs group and a
Community Relations group. The Public Affairs group is primarily responsible for generating
press releases and responding to inquires from the media. Its focus is national and international
in scope. In contrast, the Community Relations group focuses on the local community and how
the spills and mitigation components affect them. They will meet with the local and downstream
communities to explain the project, listen to the concerns of local citizens and businesses, and
make sure that these concerns are addressed.
7.           The Planning Team will include technical specialists in cleanup methods, site
surveys, regulatory issues, and environmental concerns. Field teams conduct the detailed site
surveys upon which the Operations Team develops site-specific work plans and will be
responsible for:
o     Generating general guidelines for protection of the environment and human health
in the region during cleanup (essentially "best management practices" for each
approved cleanup method being used);
o     Surveying each site and preparing pre-cleanup site assessment reports including:
maps/descriptions of the oil at each site, site-specific recommendations for
cleanup methods to be used, environmental restrictions and guidelines at each
site, and recommendations for protection of sensitive areas and resources;
o     At selected sites, developing baseline data on which the effectiveness and effects
of the cleanup can be measured, in order to: provide feedback to Operations on
approved methods and conduct studies to evaluate new proposed methods;
o     Evaluating feasibility/environmental impacts of special issues as needed;
o     Reviewing and evaluating the appropriateness of new proposed cleanup methods,
in terms of environmental and human-health effects;
o     Setting guidelines for cleanup standards, working closely with national and local
Government agencies. Environmental Advisors will provide assistance in
evaluating the cleanup plan from an environmental and human-health perspective.
8.          The Operations Team will be responsible for:
o     Developing general cleanup methods and priorities;
o     Generating site-specific work orders detailing the work to be conducted;
o     Briefing site supervisors on the daily work plan; and
o     Generating daily reports on work progress to-date.
9.           The Logistics Team will be responsible for:
o     Making sure that there are sufficient personnel, equipment, and supplies to
complete the required work as scheduled;
o     Obtaining the necessary support services such as facilities, transportation,
communications, medical, and security services to support the project; and



- 43 -
o     Provide translation services needed to bridge the language barrier at all levels of
project management and documentation. Interpreters will be needed for
communications between Russian and non-Russian team members. Document
translation will be needed so that all project documents, press releases, etc. are
available in the appropriate language of the user.
10.          The Finances Team will be responsible for:
o     Monitoring and reporting all project costs
o     Preparing invoices for submittal for payment
o     Payroll, sub-contractor, and supplier payments
11.          An accounting firm is expected to be hired to assist in financial management,
including audits of the contractor's invoices. A Russian procurement advisor has been hired to
provide procurement and contract management support for Komineft. They will be responsible
for:
o     Setting up a cost-monitoring system for the contract;
o     Establishing a schedule monitoring system to help Komineft track the progress of
the project and keep it on schedule; and
o     Assisting Komineft in resolution of contract administration problems that risk
delay to the project schedule.



- 44 -
Attachment 2
RUSS1AN FEDERATION
EMERGENCY OiL SPILL RECOVERY AND MITiGATIoN PROJECT
KOMI REPUBLIC RESOLUTIONS
DIRECTIVE
of the Governor of the Komi Republic
Given a hard financial situation in the JSC "Komineft" and need to make
arrangements towards elimination of the accident impacts in the oil pipeline "Vozei-
Golovnyje facilities" in the Ussinsk region prior to spring floods, to authorize the Ministry
of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection of the Komi Republic to apportion
emergency and rehabilitation works executed by the JSC "komineft" and expenditures
incurred to eliminate environmental damage to the account of acknowledged claims
amounting to Rb. 311 billion..
Governor of the Komi Republic                                      Y. Spiridonov
Syktyvkar
March 14, 1995
No. 173-p



- 45 -
PACIIOP5DZKEHHE
rJIABbI PECrIYEJUIKJ4 KOMH
KOMH PECrIYBJIIKACA IOPAJRbICbJIOH
HH)JO)l
YTITuB3a CcjOHooe COHH3HCOBOe iiHAoeFloe   AO " KoMriieaTL"
SS Heo 6XO=gAOCTB BEHflOjmeUHS MepO   L5T0ft IIO            riocie,nTB2E!
aBapaiu B Ycm:ic:oM, pafoHe  a EC Te)TeosOAg  " Bose2-roJIoBHue Coopy-
$eHa%! t  go HaCTyrlen  BeceHTero naBo.Uza,pa3peMETb  MfHCTepcTBy
ipo,          pecyjJcoB n oxpa3H   oicpyamIeg cpeAH Pecny6.xzim  Koms
lp,D3BO.ATL 3a'eT BmiojHEic*   AO " IROMEH3e)TL " aB3PZ2HO-BOCCTa-
HOBSTemmIm P360T Z 3aTP3T H3 Bo3i.,iemeRe  rr,WSoHq HHeoro saxorx -
iecy.oro Bpe-7a  B c7eT np13HaHHOO   zC.93  Ha cyMq 3II mzrpA.pyd-
reS.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~,
rA-aB  P3crydJEiICn  Koi orh    cemo
r. CUITMEEa;
I4    Ma;pT2 I995 r.
I73-p



- 46 -
DIRECTIVE
of the Governor of the Komi Republic
Given an emergency situation in the Ussinsk region resulted from the accident
in the oil pipeline "Vozei-Golovnyje Facilities" and need to complete emergency and
rehabilitation works prior to spring floods by attracting an international general contractor,
to authorize BIBIKOV, V.S., Deputy Governor of the Komi Republic, Chairrnan of the
Republican Commission on Emergency Situations to issue, on a prompt basis, permits,
approvals and licenses to carry out Komineft works to the international general contractor
"AEC/Hartec" and its sub-contracting agencies.
Governor of the Komi Republic                                     Y. Spiridonov
Syktyvkar
March 14, 1995
No. 174-p



47 -
PA CIIOPAKEHHE
EIrABbI PECrIY3JIHKH  KOMH
KOMPI PECnIYBJ4KACA IOPAJICEIOH
HHaTON
Yl4TUBaA 4pe3BbmaAHYIO CHTYaLWH3 B YCHHCKOM paROHe, BO3HHR-
mYI BCAeIeCTBHe aBapHH Ha He4,TenpOBoAe "Ba3eR-rojioHue CoopyIeHHR",
H HeO6XOAmMOCTB 3aBepmeHmA aBapHMHO-BOCCTaHOBHTeAbHUX pa6OT AO
HaCTynAIeHH1 BeceHHero naBoArRa.  c npHBAeUeHmeU meIAYHapOAIHoro
reHepaJIbHoro noAUpR 'Ha, upeAgoCTaBHTb, 3aUeCTsTeA3 r'AaBU PecryI6AHxH
KoMm, ipeioAceAaTejim pecny6JHKaHcKoR ROMHCCHH no qpe3BuWaAHUm CHTya-
uHAM BMENIKOBY B.C. rrpaBO BUAaBaTb B OnepaTHBHOm nOpZARe Pa3PemeHHH,
COrPaCOBaHA H AHULIeH3HH Ha npOH3BOACTBO pa6OT AO "KOMKHe4Tb",mex-
AyHapoAHoMy reHepanbHOMY nOAPRApIMIIY "AEC/XAPTEK" m ero cy6noAgpJiA-
HLU OpraHH3aLM.
AL
rAaBa PeCny6AHXH KomH                                        HOB
r.CUKTLBKaP
I4 uaPTa I995 r.
FF   I74~.



- 48 -
Attachment 3
RussLmN FEDERATION
EMERGENCY OIL SPILL RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
PROCUREmENT DETAILS AND PROCEDURES
1.          Section IV Part E of the Technical Annex summarizes the methods of
procurement proposed to be used to procure the contracts under which the Project will be carried
out. A schedule showing when these contracts will be awarded and when each component of
the work will commence is included in the table which follows this attachment. Each of the
major contracts is discussed below.
2.          Management Contract for Containment and Cleanup. The oil spill containment
and cleanup work will be managed by an international management contractor (IMC) chosen on
a sole-source basis considering the following factors: (i) knowledge of site conditions; (ii)
experience in oil spill containment and cleanup operations in similar conditions; (iii) technical
merit of the methods of cleanup proposed; (iv) experience and qualifications of the personnel
assigned to the contract; and (v) ability to mobilize quickly.
3.          The management contract -- which is valued at approximately US $45 million
and does not involve any of the emergency pipeline works -- is based on a standard contract
developed by the Construction Management Association of America, modified to suit local
circumstances and the unusual risks associated with the work. Under the contract, the IMC will
secure the additional materials, equipment and supervisory personnel required and manage the
ongoing work of four local subcontractors which were mobilized at the various sites of the spill
and working on containment works or cleanup under contracts with Komineft (KMN) until KMN
financing ran out.
4.          Cleanup Monitoring and Inspection Contracts. The Project will include two
consultant contracts designed to provide ongoing evaluation of performance by the management
contractor, both technically and in terms of cost. The first is a contract for the environmental
monitoring and management of the cleanup valued at US $4 million to provide guidelines,
evaluate, and monitor -- from an environmental and social perspective -- the technical
perfornance of the containment and cleanup work. The contract will finance equipment and
services to support KMN environmental monitoring obligations and to support research into spill
remediation options such as revegetation or bioremediation.
5.          Given the sizeable technical and commercial risks associated with oil spill
response operations and cost plus fee contracts, a second contract has been concluded with an
independent monitoring firm to review on a regular basis IMC compliance with the contract and
report its findings to KMN, IBRD and EBRD. This contract, which is valued at US $300,000,
will be financed by EBRD.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -       - - - - - - -



- 49 -
6.          Social Mitigation Expenditures. The Project will include some small sub-projects
totalling approximately US $2 million to mitigate the impact of the spill on a number of
downstream communities. These could include, e.g. drilling new water wells, providing forage
for livestock, technical assistance for reindeer range management and emergency supply of
medical, veterinarian, and social services. These sub-projects will be administered by the KMN
PIU together with the firm engaged to provide environmental management of the cleanup as well
as other specialist support.  The selection of each project will be made by a group of
representatives from the affected villages according to criteria acceptable to the Bank. The
procurement methods to be used for the social assistance sub-projects will consist of the
following: (i) contracts for goods or works valued at US $200,000 equivalent or more will be
procured using ICB procedures; (ii) contracts for goods valued at between US $50,000 and US
$200,000 equivalent will be procured using international shopping procedures; (iii) contracts for
goods valued at less than US $50,000 equivalent would be procured using national shopping
procedures; (iv) contracts for works valued at less than US $200,000 equivalent would be
procured following a comparison and evaluation of at least three bids from qualified contractors;
and (v) contracts for goods or works, which under the emergency circumstances are available
from only one qualified supplier or contractor, would, with the Bank's prior approval, be
procured using direct contracting. A detailed procurement plan can only be developed when the
content and size of each sub-project is better defined.
7.          Emergency Completion of Pipeline Replacement. A contract for the completion
of the replacement of the middle section of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline, which is valued at
approximately US $16.0 million, has been negotiated, using direct contracting procedures, with
the local firm which was carrying out the middle section pipeline replacement works until KMN
financing ran out. Only this local firm has a chance of completing the crucial tie-ins and other
works in swampy areas to remove a critical section of old pipeline from service before the
spring thaw, making possible a continuation of the works during the summer and completing the
replacement by August 1995. All other options would result in an early 1996 completion, which
would result in an unacceptable risk of further spills. The contract will be staged to ensure that
the southernmost portion of the middle section will be completed and tied in as soon as possible.
This explicitly includes the section between post 349 and post 612.
8.          The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Smaller Works will be used as a
basis for the contract for the pipeline replacement completion works. The payment schedule will
be designed to provide payment only after satisfactory completion of physical milestones. This
should provide an incentive for the contractor to maintain an acceptable quality of construction
and keep to the very tight schedule. If key milestones are not achieved, particularly the critical
winter construction works, Komineft has the option to terminate the contract. In addition, to
see that the cost of materials for the contract are reasonable, KMN's local procurement advisor
will carry out a quick shopping check of other potential suppliers of pipe, weights, tape and
valves. If better prices can be found with acceptable delivery times, the contractor will use these
vendors in the interest of economy.
9.          Pipeline Construction Inspection and Quality Control. To help ensure that the
contractor carries out acceptable quality construction and to assess integrity of the overall
pipeline, an aggressive pipeline inspection and quality control program will be set up. This
work will be carried out initially by the firm selected to be the independent monitor, and later
by a pipeline inspection company selected according to the Bank's competitive selection



- 50 -
procedures for consultants. This contract is estimated at US$3.2 million. In addition, KMN's
own project implementation team will be strengthened to provide better management and quality
monitoring capacity.
10.         Pipeline Remediation and Facilities Upgrade. A number of measures will be
taken to upgrade the operation of the pipeline. The firm selected by LIB to inspect the quality
of the middle section replacement will also carry out an integrity assessment of all sections of
the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline and undertake operational system reviews. The assessment and
the operational reviews will generate recommendations of further repairs and replacements,
suggestions as to pipeline maintenance equipment that is needed as well as changes to operating
practices, such as use of corrosion inhibiting chemicals, installation of pressure relief systems
and water removal facilities. These recommendations will form the basis of a scope of work to
be carried out and a list of equipment and materials to be purchased, most likely on a turnkey
basis, by a contractor procured using ICB procedures preceded by prequalification.
11.         The overall procurement schedule is summarized in the table below.
Procurement Schedule           _     _ _ _
Contract Description   Start of Procurement    Contract Signature  Completion
1.    Management          1/28/95               3/9/95               5/1/97
Contract
2.    Emergency            3/12/95              3/24/95              8/1/95
Pipeline
Contract
3.    Environmental       4/10/95               5/15/95              6/30/97
Monitoring
Contract
4.    Independent          2/20/95              3/20/95              6/30/97
Monitor's
Contract
5.    Pipeline             3/27/95              5/13/95             12/15/95
Monitoring
and Inspection
Contract
6.    Pipeline             9/15/95             11/17/95              4/26/96
Remediation
Contract
t  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asmu



- 51 -
Attachment 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATiON
EMERGENCY OiL SPILL RECOVERY AND MlTIGATlON PROJECT
LIST OF PROJECT DoCUMENTS IN PROJECT FLLE
1.           Draft Report, Pipeline Integrity Assessment, Kharyaga to Usinsk Pipeline. Prepared by
AGRA Earth & Environmental Limited, March 8, 1995.
2.           Field Report, Usinsk Oil Spill, Initial Action Assessment. Prepared by AGRA Earth &
Environmental Limited, March 8, 1995.
3.           Report of the UN Mission to the Oil Spill in the Komi Republic of the Russian
Federation, 8-15 December 1994. Prepared by the Joint UNEP/DHA Environment Unit, February 1995.
4.           Program of Activities for the Complex Monitoring of Environmental Pollution in the Area
of the Vozey-Golovnie Pipeline Accident Sites.  Prepared by the Russian Federal Service for
Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring. St. Petersburg, 1994.
5.           JSC Komineft, Ecology Department. Assessment of the impact of Oil Spills and of
Environmental Protection Measures Adopted on the Environment. Ukhta, 1995.
6.           JSC GEOPOLIS Report.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26833
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                                         A ._  _.  S. .,    mI..= -E-S                                                                        US.A.
KOMI EMERGENCY OIL SPILL RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT                                                                                                         
MAIN PETROLEUM BASINS AND CRUDE OIL TRUNK LINES                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
- ETRO EUM BAS N BEONDAP,ES                     CRUDE 0 TRUNK INES                RIVERS
ETROtEUM BASINS IN THE RUSS AN FEVERAION          ER;SIINU-G                 *    NATIONAL                                                                                                                                            ,
C-~   EEC-ARA                                    _ _         - E;AUNSE  OR UNDER
LAJ    OTHER BASINS                                         CONSTRUCTION           _ _  INTERNA AI                                                                                                                                          0,
L    z   07.ER SASINS                    *    SELECTED PIEEL,NE TERMINALS                       I                                                                                                                                                          -
NORWAY
KEDENMARK   A-                        SWEDEN
GERM NASY
FINLAND                                                                                                                       
ON~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OGLAPTOEMBSN
*                                                                                                                     '                    I                          I AN  TZCTTEVA                      .XHHDXAXIWS  IEA
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.*                                                                                       IV X.E  C DRRES ZN                      HTRA                          VI  ESNATAO . IEASER _REAN
>~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~ POAN                                                    SO% CA.  AUIA                        E, CX /AS                    R.R /TNI-\ILT
Po\                          -  S   >    \ L4//  I                                                         I            C H I N A                              V TE CASHIAN                           El TADAHI   RVNE              XXEE
ISLAMIC SEP OF IRAN    -                   &<I                                                                                               N,YGY        VII L0 CA URAS                        IXV ETROANA                   LKI OHHOTSE REG ON NORTH SAXHALIN
oARROR  I XE






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
KOMI EMERGENCY OIL SPILL RECOVERY AND
MITIGATION PROJECT
s.o- r                            -         -                                                   KHARYAGA-USINSK REGIONAL PIPELINE
.I|    t    I                                                         FRIAR,0,flI151NS-  RlI leIIN-I PIPNI,*N      R-ADS
y SWIMS. (    / I                 S'P a.^', . ^.>,  4                                lS     i  E'/MI- IF 0IB,l                         *. RAUOA.S
)           I                                                                 1 . ,  JwrISTRI AM 55.1101  IS, CI NIIAS           081451. 8861OR RIP0R, Oill80UF RDAhS
K            I                                                                                                                   6 FJIltil AllE AlfFI 11 D BY sPlil   AUIINV IMOUS OBIASI OKRUG OR RCPIBIIC BOUIRDARIES
IINIA6*I,                              I       I                                   (.) RI8ATIIIIt I  AlMAI
.'               r         RIS5AJ I-   DI              1 -  - -                *      oIIIrrSFI-IIIS                            ---  rIElRSAA-t.AI RCIRINiSARlFS
I                        I               -V IRI5
f1 -,                                                    / 1
tsmY    I: - -   f    _ _   _ _ >                                M                              SD^ T54MRN
Ih9 LeoLARAS NorE8-51
L  RAZAKIISIAN ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~       IA        YMA S1S1
on 8s ro> dh rol         0         50        100        ISD       200       iSC KIONOESERS                                                                       '                         -
nyky rx FCfflporf d   '      '          '         '.
0.. World 80ni Gr>p.                                                                                                                                                                   0I
1.5,.8.mby. d
vI,1                                                                                                                                                                     '-K l  f 
-  66~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
KOMI EMERGENCY OIL SPILL
RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
USINSK REGION OIL SPILL SITES
\KITARYAGA USIN5K REGIONAL PIPELINE
H*   WAITR SAMPLING STATIONS
# (, '' '                                           sITE 4  -,Oil SPILL SITES / IMPACTED AREAS
TEMPORARY SIPHON CONTAINMENT
STRUCTURES
o      SELECTED CITIES
NADPOIMENNY ENVIRONMENTAL
PRESERVE IZAKAZNIKI
.   RIVERS AND STREAMS
I      LAKES AND PONDS
________    WINTER ROADS
/  .  (,   |    SITEf2          R- TACKS
TRANSMISSION LINES
0 Io                52 0       75 KILOMETERS
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 1b W- b- G,-
KHARYAGA-USINSK : 
REGIONAL PIPELINE                        j'
itOlTR 'R \IECTE.YT&ft
\T \A 06 E/ flRCA0ES               S . R
'L  f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1   a\l 'm  m   
REiUC f l dOA'As
1S 9                                                                ,. {   0    S   o        l;f:     to   )  q   '   / ;
9> 4                            I . A)                I o~~~~~~~~~~ndtIl. IMs _         '     
\)  s  . > 8 ^ > r t s < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'1                                                                      I~st 
_S.IrTEtlAtus 9    -    '    gr    K    Al   A   K   L  5 1  
S..          I
StTE~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~1'  A,
A                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
SIIE7                                                         (                I S~~~~~'. IRRLf BE21701L



