Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3872 RU
                              Loan Agreement
           (Emergency Oil Spill Recovery and Mitigation Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated April 25, 1995
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3872 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1995, between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by OTJSC Komineft
(Komineft) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Komineft the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD
Loan) in an amount of $25,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and EBRD; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Komineft;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Komineft" means OTJSC Komineft incorporated under
its Charter dated, and registered on May 6, 1993 (the
"Charter"), as amended from time to time;
      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Komineft of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Komineft pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of ninety nine million dollars
($99,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
Page  3
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998  or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period  equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding  Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
    (i)         "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
    (ii)        "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
    (iii)       "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
    amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
    time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
    Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each
    of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
    the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
    amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
    calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
    Period."
          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
    Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
    commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
    calendar year."
Page  4
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May  1 and November 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. Komineft is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause Komineft to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
Komineft therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Komineft to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Komineft under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Komineft under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
include:  (i) fifteen years maturity with five years grace
period;  (ii) an interest rate at the Bank's rate as determined
according to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement
plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk to
be borne by Komineft.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by  Komineft pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Komineft shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that Komineft will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
Page  5
adversely the ability of Komineft to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of Komineft or for the suspension of its
operations.
    (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                proceeds of the EBRD Loan shall have been
                suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                part, pursuant to the terms and conditions set
                forth in the EBRD Loan Agreement, or (B) the EBRD
                Loan shall have become due and payable prior to
                the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower or Komineft establish to
                the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                Komineft to perform any of its obligations under
                the EBRD Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                for the Project are available to the Borrower
                from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of Komineft under
                the Project Agreement.
    Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;
    (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) of Section
4.01 of the Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
Paragraph (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EBRD Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
    (b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Komineft in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Komineft and is legally binding upon Komineft in
accordance with its terms; and
    (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Komineft and is
Page  6
legally binding upon the Borrower and Komineft in accordance
with its terms.
    Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower are designated as representatives of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          1 Ilyinka Street 9
          103097 Moscow
          Russian Federation
                                        Telex:
                                              112008
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                               64l45 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                By /s/ Anatoly Chubais
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
Page  7
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated         % of
                          (Expressed in      Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Management of            36,000,000     80% of foreign
    containment and                         expenditures
    clean up activities
    under Parts A.1
    through A.3 of
    the Project
(2) Pipeline replacement     12,800,000     80% of foreign
    works under Part B.1                    expenditures and
    of the Project                          62% of local
                                            expenditures
(3) Pipeline remediation     16,700,000     100% of foreign
    works under Parts B.2                   expenditures and
    and B.3 of the Project                  77% of local
                                            expenditures
(4) Goods                     5,300,000     100% of foreign
                                            expenditures, 100%
                                            of local
                                            expenditures
                                            (ex-factory cost) and
                                            77% of local expend-
                                            itures for other items
                                            procured locally
(5) Consultants' Services      9,100,000    100% of foreign
    under Parts A.4, B.2                    expenditures and
    and C of the Project                    77% of local
                                            expenditures
(6) Social Assistance         1,600,000     80% of foreign
    Sub-projects under                      expenditures and
    Part A.1 of the                         and 62% of local
    Project                                 expenditures
(7) Unallocated              17,500,000
    TOTAL                    99,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  8
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower, provided, however, that if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures."
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $20 million, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to stabilize the oil spill
area along the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline prior to the 1995
spring thaw to minimize the amount of oil released during
runoff and prevent ecological damage in the Pechora river
basin, continue the clean up in an environmentally appropriate
way and minimize, to the extent possible, damage to the
impacted areas, support safe pipeline operations in the near
term and evaluate the need for a replacement pipeline
investment project for the longer term, and identify and
implement other measures to mitigate against future oil spills.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Spill Containment and Clean-up
1.  Oil containment works, including site assessment,
construction of access roads, reinforcement of existing dikes
and construction of new dikes and other structures for oil
containment, recovery and processing of oil where possible and
pre-staging of equipment for recovery of oil that will be
released during spring flooding and implementation of social
assistance sub-projects (Social Assistance Sub-projects),
selected in accordance with criteria approved by the Bank, to
carry out emergency mitigation measures necessitated by the oil
spills in affected communities, as identified with state farms
and communities in the area, including emergency interventions
for public health, water supply interventions and provision of
forage for livestock.
2.   Oil  removal works, with the primary focus on removing as
much potentially mobile oil as possible at the existing oil
spill sites followed by site restoration and remediation
measures.
3.  Establishment of an emergency response capability for oil
releases on downstream rivers, including monitoring for and
collection of floating oil slicks, protection of water intakes
threatened by oil slicks, removal of stranded oil along the
river banks, and mitigation of impacts resulting from oil
contamination in the affected communities.
4.  Establishment of an environmental monitoring and management
program for the oil spill containment and clean-up activities.
Part B:   Pipeline Rehabilitation:
1.        Completion of the construction of 67.9 km of partially
constructed pipeline through the replacement of the southern
and middle sections of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline.
Page  9
2.  Carrying out of an integrity assessment and technical
inspection of the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline, and repair or
replacement of pipeline segments as required.
3.  Completion of water removal separation facilities to remove
corrosive brine from produced oil and installation of other
facilities along the Kharyaga-Usinsk pipeline to improve
operations efficiency and reduce the risk of failures.
4.  Establishment and carrying out of a pipeline maintenance and
emergency response plan and provision of equipment and
materials needed for its implementation.
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening of Komineft
1.  Carrying out of studies to review the pipeline operating
practices of Komineft, to establish guidelines for safe and
efficient pipeline operation, and to undertake feasibility
studies and strategic evaluation of options for future pipeline
investments.
2.  Training of Komineft personnel in oil spill counter
measures, emergency response, oil field and pipeline
rehabilitation.
3.  Preparation and execution of an environmental and social
monitoring program and strengthening of the institutional and
environmental management capacity of Komineft to mitigate the
effects of oil spills.
4.        Provision of monitoring services to assist in the
supervision of works under Parts A.1 through A.3 and B.1 of the
Project.
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
    beginning November 1, 2000
    through May 1, 2012                                4,125,000
____________________________________
Page  10
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the  respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions 3.04. and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
                                          The interest rate (expressed as a
                                          percentage per annum) applicable
                                          to the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                              0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                              0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                                0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                             0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                              1.00
    maturity
