                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              CONCEPT STAGE

                                                                 Report No.: AB7051


 Operation Name                   Second Development Policy Credit
 Region                           SOUTH ASIA
 Country                          Bhutan
 Sector                           Central government administration (45%); Roads and
                                  highways (25%); General industry and trade sector (20%);
                                  Vocational training (10%)
 Operation ID                     P128201
 Lending Instrument               Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                      ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN
                                  Royal Government of Bhutan
                                  Bhutan
                                  Tel: 975-2-326770
 Implementing Agency
                                  Ministry of Finance
                                  Bhutan
                                  Tel: (975) 232-4346 Fax: (975) 233-4994
                                  ndorji@mof.gov.bt
 Date PID Prepared                May 23, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal      July 31, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board          September 27, 2012
 Approval

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement


The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) has made significant progress in implementing its
medium-term program of institutional and policy reforms. The World Bank has supported the
RGoB’s development efforts through four budgetary operations in recent years. The First and
Second Development Policy Grants (DPGs) were designed as a programmatic series in support
of RGoB’s medium term reforms. They provided US$15 million in FY06 and US$12 million in
FY07 respectively, to help the RGoB meet selected development goals, and contributed to
deepening the policy dialogue. Following the Kingdom’s transition to democracy in 2008, and
based on progress on the medium-term reform program, a Development Policy Financing for
Institutional Strengthening (DPFIS) for US$20.22 million was approved under the FY06-09
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bhutan. Although it was designed as a stand-alone
operation, the DPFIS was anchored in a medium term programmatic framework to support the
attainment of Tenth Five-Year Plan (10FYP) (2008/09–2012/13) development goals, as
requested by the RGoB. The RGoB has requested further budget support to help meet its
development agenda. So the World Bank is providing policy based budget support to the RGoB
in the form of a programmatic series of two single-tranche Development Policy Credit
operations. The First Development Policy Credit (DPC1) was provided in October 2010 and this
Second Development Policy Credit (DPC2) is expected to go to the Board in September 2012.

Bhutan’s growth performance remains strong, with some moderation in the early years of the
10FYP. Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7.5 percent in the last 3 years, which while
still healthy, is below the 9 percent annual growth during the 9FYP. Growth was driven mainly
by the hydropower sector, which accounted for about 20 percent of the country’s value added
over the past 3 years. Macroeconomic management has been broadly satisfactory, but there are
recent signs of overheating. Inflation is on the rise, reflecting price developments in India as
well as domestic demand pressures. Fiscal policy has been accommodative, which has
contributed to the risk of overheating. Meanwhile, the Government debt is high and on the rise.
Due to a weak transmission mechanism, monetary policy has been less effective in managing
excess liquidity in the financial system. Meanwhile, the external position is deteriorating, with
strong demand for imports outstripping exports – resulting in the RMA imposing several
restrictions on availability of Rupees.

Bhutan’s short-term prospects are subject to downside risks. Growth is expected to remain
strong, underpinned by the construction of hydropower projects and donor support. However,
the realization of this growth scenario hinges on the authorities’ action to address the ongoing
macroeconomic challenges. Although the RMA measures may be able to lower recorded
imports of non-essential imports from India, improving the external account, there are risks that
informal trading may intensify, offsetting lower recorded imports. Should the rupee rationing
dampen private sector activity, growth could suffer and government revenue may fall as a result.
A medium to long-term solution to the current economic difficulties calls for prudent
macroeconomic policy mix and structural transformation of the economy.

The RGoB has requested further budget support from the Bank to: (i) strengthen its ongoing
program of institutional reforms; and (ii) provide resources for its development agenda. First, as
the first democratically elected government deepens its reform program, Bank assistance will
help highlight key development priorities to meet the challenges. Bank support through
budgetary operations has achieved significant success in recent years, and the RGoB would like
build on this momentum. Second, the projected resource gap in financing the 10FYP agenda is
significant. Budget support from the Bank will help address this gap. Although Bhutan receives
significant external assistance, more than 80 percent of this is project-tied — making
programmatic budget support valuable for its quick disbursement and the flexibility with which
it can be deployed. Support from the World Bank is also valued by the RGoB for its signaling
effect.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The overarching objective of the proposed DPC series of operations is to strengthen institutions
to: (a) promote government efficiency and effectiveness through sound fiscal and public
financial management and procurement, and strong public administration; (b) foster private
sector development by improving the policy environment and facilitating productive
employment opportunities; and (c) expand access to infrastructure (roads, urban, ICT) in an
environmentally sustainable manner. These are viewed by the RGoB as critical to sustain robust
development performance over the medium term. These development objectives are closely
aligned with the strategic priorities of the 10FYP. The operations will seek to consolidate the
reforms supported under the earlier Development Policy Operations (DPOs).

       Preliminary Description

The overarching objective of DPC2 is to: (a) promote government efficiency and effectiveness
through sound fiscal and public financial management and procurement, and strong public
administration; (b) foster private sector development by improving the policy environment and
facilitating productive employment opportunities; and (c) expand access to infrastructure in a
sustainable manner.

The preliminary key prior actions supported by DPC2 are: (i) The RGoB authorizes the
Accounting and Auditing Standard Board (AASBB) to notify Bhutanese Accounting Standards
from Phase I of road map; (ii) Amend Procurement Rules and Regulations 2009 to account for
priority short term recommendations from the Use of Country Systems Assessment; (iii)
National Assembly adopts a new Anti-Corruption Law, along with new rules on asset disclosure;
(iv) Approve revised Foreign Direct Investment Rules and Regulations; (v) Finalize eight
remaining rules and regulations on Occupational Health and Safety for approval by Ministry of
Labor and Human Resources; (vi) Present new Road Act to the Parliament; (vii) Adopt
Municipal Finance Policy (MFP), and apply selected priority measures Thimphu and
Phuentsholing City Corporations; and (viii) The Cabinet and the National Assembly endorse the
Disaster Management Bill.

These objectives are closely aligned with the strategic priorities of the 10FYP, and were
formulated in consultation with counterparts in the RGoB.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

The proposed operation is expected to yield several positive social impacts. Supportive
government policies have ensured that Bhutan is on track to achieve or has achieved most of its
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for which data are available. The RGoB is committed
to improving the living standards of the population as demonstrated by heavy public spending on
the provision of social services, especially in remote areas. The 10FYP’s overarching objective is
the reduction in poverty, and, by supporting 10FYP goals, the operation will contribute to
favorable social and poverty impacts.

Environment Aspects

No major environmental concerns are noted for the first two themes supported under DPC2. The potential
environmental concerns related to the third theme of improving access to infrastructure are more
significant in Bhutan’s environmentally sensitive and fragile mountainous terrain. Bhutan has a
reasonably sound environmental policy and legislative framework for environmental safeguard,
mitigation, and management. Projects or development activities are not permitted in the core zone of
protected areas. All development proposals are subject to environmental screening and assessment
processes, and procedures which result in the establishment of environmental management plans that
incorporate specific recommendations for mitigating negative environmental impacts. Adverse
environmental impacts of DPC2 are expected to be minimal, provided Bhutan’s environmental policies
and management systems are effectively applied.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                       0
International Development Association (IDA)                                       20 – 33 million
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                        Total      20-33 million

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Lalita M. Moorty
Title: Sr Country Economist
Tel: (202) 473-9462
Fax:
Email: Lmoorty@worldbank.org
Borrower
Contact: Nim Dorji
Title: Director, DPA
Tel:
Email: ndorji@mof.gov.b

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
