                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                          July 20, 2012
                                                                   Report No. AB7099

 Operation Name                    Bhutan: Second Development Policy Credit (DPC2)
 Region                            SOUTH ASIA
 Country                           Bhutan
 Sector                            General industry and trade sector (57%); Central government
                                   administration (36%); Sub-national government
                                   administration (7%)
 Operation ID                      P128201
 Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                       ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN
                                   Royal Government of Bhutan
                                   Bhutan
                                   Tel: 975-2-326770
 Implementing Agency
                                   Ministry of Finance
                                   Bhutan
                                   Tel: (975) 232-4346 Fax: (975) 233-4994
                                   ndorji@mof.gov.bt
 Date PID Prepared                 July 20, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal       July 31, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board           September 27, 2012
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision         Authorization to appraise granted. Negotiations following
                                   confirmation of adequacy of the macroeconomic framework.

       Country and Sector Background

The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) has made progress in implementing its medium-term
program of institutional and policy reforms. The World Bank has supported the RGoB’s
development efforts through three budgetary operations in recent years. The First and Second
Development Policy Grants were designed as a programmatic series to support the medium term
reforms. They provided US$15 million in FY06 and US$12 million in FY07 respectively.
Following Bhutan’s transition to democracy in 2008 and based on progress on the medium-term
reform program, a Development Policy Financing for Institutional Strengthening (DPFIS) for
US$20.22 million was approved under the FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Although designed as a stand-alone operation, the DPFIS was anchored in a medium term
programmatic framework to support the Tenth Five-Year Plan (10FYP) (2008/09–2012/13)
development goals, as requested by the RGoB.

The RGoB had requested further budget support to help meet its development agenda. In
response, the World Bank prepared the current programmatic series, in the form of two single-
tranche Development Policy Credits. These two operations would support the RGoB’s medium
term reform program as anchored in the 10FYP. The First Development Policy Credit (DPC1)
was approved in November 2010 and the Second Development Policy Credit (DPC2) is expected
to go to the World Bank Board, subject to adequate reform progress and a sustainable
macroeconomic framework.

       Operation Objectives

The objectives of the proposed DPC series are: (a) promoting government efficiency and
effectiveness through sound fiscal and public financial management and procurement, and strong
public administration; (b) fostering private sector development by improving the policy
environment and facilitating productive employment opportunities; and (c) expanding access to
infrastructure in an environmentally sustainable manner. The RGoB views them as important for
sustaining robust development performance over the medium term, in line with its strategic
priorities in the 10FYP. The operations in this programmatic series seek to build on the reforms
supported under the earlier Development Policy Operations.

       Rationale for Bank Involvement

The current two-operation programmatic series responds to RGoB’s request to support its
institutional reforms and to provide untied resources for its development agenda. As the young
democracy deepens institutional reforms in pursuit of its development goals, assistance from the
World Bank will be crucial. The RGoB has indicated that the World Bank’s budget-support
operations have helped in furthering the RGoB’s policy reform agenda and has requested its
support to carry this forward. While other development partners assist Bhutan, their financing is
mainly project specific and disburses over time. The DPC series are valuable because they are
quick disbursing that the RGoB can deploy flexibly. Most important, they provide support
during a critical transition in the Bhutanese economy, which is making massive upfront
investments in productive capacity in the hydropower sector to generate a perpetual stream of
significantly higher electricity export revenues. These resources are vital, therefore, to ensuring
the sustainability and growth of the Bhutanese economy and support the general welfare of its
people.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                               ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                       0
International Development Association (IDA)                                           36.00
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                       Total          36.00
       Tranches (not applicable)
                                                                                      ($m.)
First Tranche
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total
       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The Department of Public Accounts (DPA), Ministry of Finance, will be responsible for overall
implementation and monitoring of DPC2. The RGoB has already established an inter-ministerial
group of officials, headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, to provide overall coordination
for the DPC process. This group has worked with the Bank team since the inception of the
DPOs, and is familiar with Bank procedures.

The Bank team will supervise the project by monitoring actions and reviewing implementation
progress of the proposed operation. The Policy Program Matrix of the proposed operation will
provide a results framework that describes expected outputs /outcomes, as well as indicators to
gauge progress and monitor interim steps. Implementation support missions will be undertaken
at regular intervals, in consultation with the RGoB.

       Risks and Risk Mitigation

Benefits relate closely to the DPC objectives and to the 10FYP. In a generally well-managed
country like Bhutan, which is already making good progress in development and reforms, and
which is on-track for achieving most of the MDGs, the expected benefits of DPC2 in supporting
the government’s program are substantial. In the medium term, the program is expected to
contribute to improved use of public resources, decreased unemployment, economic
diversification, and better access to infrastructure. The funds provided to the RGoB through the
proposed operation will help to maintain the RGoB’s macroeconomic framework, and increase
availability of resources for development priorities.

There are three sets of risks: (i) Macroeconomic risks. Despite recent fiscal and monetary
tightening, high hydropower spending could cause aggregate demand pressures to linger (while
hydropower project costs are financed by grants and loans by the Government of India, there will
be some impact on the domestic demand). There is also a risk that restrictions on credit could
hamper private sector development. The IMF has also identified risks associated with debt
sustainability, potential overheating due to spillovers from hydropower spending, financial sector
vulnerabilities, and gaps in reserve management. Risks are mitigated by the recent fiscal and
monetary tightening measures by the authorities. The World Bank’s emphasis on establishing a
sound medium-term fiscal framework should also help ensure that the multi-year consequences
of investments and other decisions are taken into account. The focus on improving the general
environment for private sector development should also help the country realize more of its
potential. (ii) Capacity risks. The preceding DPOs identified risks related to technical capacity
constraints and put forward some mitigation measures, including the provision of appropriate
technical assistance to support the RGoB in implementation of the reforms. As in the case of the
earlier DPOs, the design accounts for capacity constraints through selectivity through a limited
number of prior actions. It will also seek to leverage technical assistance resources. (iii) Political
risks. Changes in government priorities and working officials could affect the relevance and
implementation of the program. The upcoming elections next year could give rise to populist
pressures and put further stress on the fiscal/external situation. Sustainability is helped by
ownership of the reform program by the current government (and civil service). The DPC
program is a response to a request by the RGoB, which is on board with the reform program
supported by the proposed DPC series as anchored in the RGoB’s own 10FYP. Key counterpart
officials have not changed, and the inter-ministerial group of officials steering the
implementation have already had experience in implementing the earlier DPO program.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

The proposed operation is expected to yield several positive social impacts. Supportive
government policies have ensured that Bhutan is on track to achieve or has achieved most of its
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for which data are available. The RGoB is committed
to improving the living standards of the population as demonstrated by heavy public spending on
the provision of social services, especially in remote areas. The 10FYP’s overarching objective is
the reduction in poverty, and, by supporting 10FYP goals, the operation will contribute to
favorable social and poverty impacts.

No major environmental concerns are noted for the first two themes supported under DPC1. The
potential environmental concerns related to the third theme of improving access to infrastructure
are more significant in Bhutan’s environmentally sensitive and fragile mountainous terrain.
Bhutan has a reasonably sound environmental policy and legislative framework for
environmental safeguard, mitigation, and management. Projects or development activities are not
permitted in the core zone of protected areas. All development proposals are subject to
environmental screening and assessment processes, and procedures that result in the
establishment of environmental management plans that incorporate specific recommendations
for mitigating negative environmental impacts. Adverse environmental impacts of DPC2 are
expected to be minimal, provided Bhutan’s environmental policies and management systems are
effectively applied.

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Lalita M. Moorty
Title: Sr Country Economist
Tel: (202) 473-9462
Fax:
Email: Lmoorty@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Nim Dorji
Title: Director, DPA
Tel:
Email: ndorji@mof.gov.bt

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
