               00a   ....••••••••



                 OFFICIAL
                DOCUMENT

                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 5163-BT



Financing Agreement


      (Second Development Policy Credit)


                                between


         KINGDOM OF BHUTAN


                                    and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




      Dated   U        C                  `1   3   ,   2012
                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated                              , 2012, entered into between KINGDOM
OF BHUTAN ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and (b) the Recipient's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
       constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
       set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
       twenty-three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
       23,900,000) (variously, "Credit" and "Financing").

2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
       Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
       Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
       annum.

2.04. The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
       shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05. The Interest Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
       shall be equal to one and a quarter percent (1.25%) per annum.

2.06. The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.
                                            2


2.07. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.08. The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                             ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
       To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program .

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
       situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
       significant part of it, will be carried out.

4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
        event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
        period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event shall have been given by the
        Association to the Recipient.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
       the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
        carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's
        macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.
                                           -   3


                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient's Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient's Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                Tashichhodzong
                Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan

                Facsimile:

                00975-2-323154


6.03.   The Association's Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:           Telex:                      Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)                 1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.
                                   4


           AGREED at yc-ik   .71       ,   as of the day and year first above
written.


                      KINGDOM OF BHUTAN

                      By

                                                            orized Representative

                                       Name: H.7v.c.:.             wc3„.<0.,

                                           Title:yt io      t c-                c4


                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                      By

                                                       Authorized Representative

                                       Name: \

                                           Title:   's.) ,„ c)c
                                          -5


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

Actions Taken Under the Program.         The actions taken by the Recipient under the
Program include the following:

I.      To improve government efficiency and effectiveness, the Recipient has:

        (a)     through the AASBB, and pursuant to pertinent authorization granted by
                MoF, through Executive Order ASBB/01/2011-2012/100 dated February
                 16, 2012, adopted, through Circular AASBB/01/2011-2012/130 dated
                April 6, 2012, phase I of the Bhutanese Accounting Standards and
                established appropriate criteria for its ensuing implementation by
                Bhutanese companies;

        (b)     enacted, through its legislative branch, the Anti-Corruption Act of
                Bhutan 2011 in accordance with accepted international standards and
                caused the Anti-Corruption Commission to issue the Assets Declaration
                Rules on the basis thereof;

        (c)     through the PPPD, in furtherance of increased transparency in public
                procurement: (i) issued Procurement Guidelines; (ii) strengthened the
                PPPD by expanding its human resource base with the addition of
                competent staff; and (iii) put in place a suitable PPPD website;

        (d)     amended, through Notification MoF/PPPD-08/2010/2011/646 dated June
                15, 2012, the Procurement Rules and Regulations 2009 to include
                provisions allowing: (i) requirements to publish contract awards within
                fifteen (15) days of the date on which the award was made; and
                (ii) revisions to the Recipient's standard bidding documents for goods
                and works; and

        (e)     established through Notification MoF/PPPD-08/2010/2011/467 dated
                June 15, 2012, an independent review body for procurement grievances.

2.      To promote private sector development and employment generation, the
        Recipient has:

        (a)     adopted, through the Minister of Economic Affairs, Foreign Direct
                Investment Rules and Regulations 2012; and
                                            6


        (b)     issued, through the Minister of Labor and Human Resources, suitable
                (i) Regulations on Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare for the
                Construction Industry, and (ii) Regulations on Occupational Health,
                Safety and Welfare applicable to all other sectors of the Recipient's
                economy.

3.      To expand access to infrastructure in a sustainable manner, the Recipient has:

        (a)     following endorsement by its Cabinet, caused a Road Bill to be
                submitted to Parliament for approval;

        (b)     following endorsement by its Cabinet, caused a Disaster Management
                Bill to be submitted to Parliament for approval; and

        (c)     endorsed through the Minister of Works and Human Settlement, the
                Thromde Finance Policy.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make multiple withdrawals of
        the Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set
        out in the table below:

                   Allocations                   Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                       (expressed in SDR)

         (1) Single Withdrawal                               23,900,000
             Tranche
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                        23,900,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition. No withdrawal shall be made of the
        Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied: (a) with the
        Program being carried out by the Recipient; and (b) with the adequacy of the
        Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts.          Except as the Association may otherwise
        agree:
                                        7


     (a)    all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
            Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
            to the Association; and

     (b)    the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
            Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
            Recipient's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
            Association.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is July 31, 2013.
                                         -8


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

              Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                     (expressed as a percentage)*
On each April 1 and October 1:
commencing April 1, 2018 to and including                        1.65%
October 1, 2027
commencing April 1, 2028 to and including                        3.35%
October 1, 2037


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid.
                                            9


                                      APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions


1       "AASBB" means the Accounting and Auditing Standard Board of Bhutan,
        established under MoF's Office order MOF/DPA/AASBB9619 of May 25, 2010,
        or any successor thereto.

2.      "Anti-Corruption Act of Bhutan 2011" means the new anticorruption law
        adopted on May 30, 2011, which came into force on July 5, 2011.

3.      "Anti-Corruption Commission" means the Recipient's Anti-Corruption
        Commission established pursuant to Article 27 of the Constitution of the
        Kingdom of Bhutan, or any successor thereto.

4.      "Assets Declaration Rules" means the rules issued by the Anti-Corruption
        Commission to provide for the effective and efficient administration of assets
        declarations.

5.      "Bhutanese Accounting Standards" means those accounting standards modeled,
        on international financial reporting standards issued by AASBB, to be
        implemented by companies incorporated under the Companies Act of the
        Kingdom of Bhutan 2000.

6.      "Cabinet" means the Recipient's council of ministers, making up its executive
        branch, or part thereof, as further set forth in the Recipient's constitution.

7.      "Companies Act of the Kingdom of Bhutan 2000" means the Recipient's
        Companies Act which entered into force on July 18, 2000.

8.      "Disaster Management Bill" means the Recipient's draft legislation providing for
        the establishment and strengthening of the institutional framework for disaster
        management in Bhutan.

9.      "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
                loan;
                               -10-


(b)   for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
      International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
      by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
      (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
      revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
      Recipient:

               Group            Sub-group            Description of Item
               112                                   Alcoholic beverages
               121                                   Tobacco, un-
                                                     manufactured, tobacco
                                                     refuse
               122                                   Tobacco, manufactured
                                                     (whether or not containing
                                                     tobacco substitutes)
               525                                   Radioactive and associated
                                                     materials
               667                                   Pearls, precious and
                                                     semiprecious stones,
                                                     unworked or worked
               718              718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                     thereof; fuel elements
                                                     (cartridges), non-
                                                     irradiated, for nuclear
                                                     reactors
               728              728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                     machinery
               897              897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                     platinum group metals
                                                     (except watches and watch
                                                     cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                                     silversmiths' wares
                                                     (including set gems)
               971                                   Gold, non-monetary
                                                     (excluding gold ores and
                                                     concentrates)

(c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
      consumption;

(d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
      which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
      agreements to which the Recipient is a party;
      (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
              Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
              United Nations; and

      (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
              collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
              Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
              Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
              action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
              occur.

10.   "Foreign Direct Investment Rules and Regulations 2012" means the Recipient's
      Foreign Direct Investment Rules and Regulations adopted by the Minister of
      Economic Affairs on July 18, 2012.

11.   "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010 with the
      modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

12.   "Labour and Employment Act 2007" means the Recipient's Labour and
      Employment Act 2007, adopted on January 4, 2007.

13.   "MoF" means the Recipient's Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.

14.   "Minister of Economic Affairs" means the Recipient's Minister of Economic
      Affairs, or any successor thereto.

15.   "Minister of Labor and Human Resources" means the Recipient's Minister of
      Labor and Human Resources, or any successor thereto.

16.   "Minister of Works and Human Settlement" means the Recipient's Minister of
      Works and Human Settlement, or any successor thereto.

17.   "Parliament" means the Recipient's legislature.

18.   "PPPD" means the Recipient's Public Procurement Policy Division under the
      MoF's Department of National Properties, or any successor thereto.

19.   "Procurement Guidelines" means the Guidelines issued by the PPPD in July
      2012.

20.   "Procurement Rules and Regulations 2009" means the Procurement Rules and
      Regulations issued by the MoF in 2009.
                                          -12-


21.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
        referred to in the letter dated August 22, 2012, from the Recipient to the
        Association declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the
        Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
        Program during its execution.

22.     "Regulation on Occupational Health and Safety for the Construction Industry"
        means the regulation prescribing the requirements that must be met by all
        workplaces engaged in construction industry within the coverage of the Labour
        and Employment Act 2007.

23.     "Regulation on Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare" means the set of
        regulations setting out occupational health, safety and welfare requirements that
        employers, other than those engaged in the construction industry, shall meet
        under Labour and Employment Act 2007.

24.     "Road Bill" means the Recipient's draft road legislation.

25.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

26.     "Thromde Finance Policy" means the Recipient's financial policy for delivery of
        services by municipalities, adopted by the Minister of Works and Human
        Settlements on July 19, 2012.


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      "Section 3.02. Service Charge and Interest Charge

        (a) Service Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association a service charge on the
            Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing
            Agreement. The Service Charge shall accrue from the respective dates on
                                      - 13 -


        which amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-
        annually in arrears on each Payment Date. Service Charges shall be
        computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.

     (b) Interest Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association interest on the
         Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing Agreement.
         Interest shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts of the
         Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each
         Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of
         twelve 30-day months."

4.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
     Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            "Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                    (c)       The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The
            Recipient shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
            records."

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

             "Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                     (c)    The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing."

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
                                - 14 -


alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
       follows:

       "'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in
       support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
       pursuant to the Financing Agreement."

(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the
       Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

(c)    The term "Financing Payment" is modified by inserting the words "the
       Interest Charge" between the words "the Service Charge" and "the
       Commitment Charge".

(d)    A new term called "Interest Charge" is added to read as follows:

       "'Interest Charge' means the interest charge specified in the Financing
       Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.02(b)."

(e)     The term "Payment Date" is modified by inserting the words "Interest
        Charges" between the words "Service Charges" and "Commitment
        Charges".

        The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
        modified to read as follows:

        "'Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
        support of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project"
        throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
        "Program".

(g)     The term "Service Charge" is modified by replacing the reference to
        Section 3.02 with Section 3.02(a).
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
