/--/\   -7 j (7- 7d;
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
rveport No. 11294-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 9, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Dapartment I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AT APPRAISAL
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
USSI = TL 7,000 (AppraisaL: June 1992)
US$1 = TL 8,200 (November 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imperial Units                           Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                   =          30.5 centimetres (cm)
1 square foot (ftMI                      0.093 square metres (mW)
1 cubic foot MftI)            =          0.028 Cubic metres (C)
1 mile (mi)                   =           1.609 kilometres (km)
1 acre (ac)                   =          0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mite (sq mi)         =          259 ha
1 pound (lb)                  =          0.454 kilograms (kg)
I Long ton (1 ton)            -           1,016 kg (1.016 metric ton)
I ft'/sec (cusec)             =          0.028 m/sec
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AGM              Department of Reforestation and Erosion Control (MOF)
APKKB            Research, Planning and Coordination Board (MOF)
DSI              General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works
FCPCPS           Farmer Centered Problem Census Problem Solving
FTE              Farmer Training and Extension Department of PDA
GEF              Global Environment Fund
GET              Global Environment Trust
GIS              Geographical Information System
GOT              Government of Turkey
ICARDA           International Centre for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
KHGN             General Directorate of RuraL Services
MARA             Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MC               Microcatchment
HIS              Management Information System
MOE              Ministry of Enviromnent
M-OF             Ministry of Forestry
0GM              General Directorate of Forestry
ORKOY            Forest Village Development Fund
PCSU             Project Coordination and Support Unit
PDA              Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
PUB              Project lplementation Unit
SMS              Subject Matter Specialist
TAGEM            General Directorate for Agricultural Research
TCZB             Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEDGEM           General Directorate of Organization and Support
TKV              Turkish Development Foundation
TMO              Turkish Grain Marketing Board
TUGEM            General Directorate of Production and Development
TYAUP II         Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
VGT              Village Group Technician
GLOSSARY
Kaymakam         County Governor
Nezra            Village Sub-unit
Muhtar           Village Leader
Stere            I om of stacked wood
Voli             Province Governor
GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December



FOR 0MCU USEONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~gu
ASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED RAILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .-iii
I.   PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A. Introduction  .1                                                  
B.  Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
C.  Bank Group Lending for Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
II.   PROJECT AREA AND RATIONALE  6. .                   .. a..   .6
A.  Definition of Area  .............. . .                        6
B.  Physical Characteristics  .................   7
C.  Social Characteristics  . . . ... .  .  .  .  .  . . .  . .   9
D. Infrastructure  . . . . . . .      . . . . . . .  . . . . . . 10
B.  The Institutional Setting. . . .             .    . . .    . . 10
F.  Project Rationale       . . . . . . . .         . . . .3  . 13
III.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . .             . . .   . . . . . . . 13
A.  Objectives  . . . . . . . . .                . .. . . . . . 13
B.  Summary Description .      . .       . . . .  .  .  . . . .. . 14
C.  Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Dn  Cost Estimates        . . . . .       . . . . . . . . . . . 21
S. Financing . . . . . . . . .          .  .  . . . .  . . . . . . .  21
F.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . 22
G. Disbursements          . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . 26
H.  Accounts and Audits . . .            . . . . . . . . . .  .27
I.  Project Supervision        . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . 27
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND I ANGMNAGE  lNT. ...... .....28
A.  Institutional Arrangements  . . . .  ....... . . . .28
S.  Micro-catchment Planning  .        3 . # . . . . .   .   . .         30
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
A.  Production and Marketing  .  . . . . . . . .         2 . . . . . .32
B.  Farm Income and Cost Sharing  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . 34
C.  Economic Analysis and Risks . . . . . . . . . . .   5 . . 35
D.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . 3  . . . . . . . 37
B.  Impact on Women  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   38
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization i



Table of Contents (cont'd)
1A    Agriculture
13    Rainfed Terracing and Small-Scale Irrigation
2     Rangelands
3     Treatments on Forest Lands
4     Guidelines for Micro-catchment Planning
S     Treatment Menu and Cost Sharing
6     Organization Chart
7     Monitoring MIS and Evaluation
8     Project Cost Estimates and Disbursement Profile
9     Economic Analysis
10     Sociological Characteristics
11     Training and Technical Assistance
12     Adaptive Research
13     Documents Available in Project File
14     Micro-catchment Plans for First Year Project Xmplementation
15     Implementation Program 1993
IRD No. 24166



- i -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPR
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
TURKEY
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries             Ministry of Forestry (MOF)
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA)
Ministry of Environment (MOE) GET co-financed
Amount:                   US$77 million equivalent loan
US$5.1 million equivalent GET grant (cofinanced)
Termss                    Seventeen years, with a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. GET
funds would be on a grant basis.
ProJect Obiectivess       The project addresses important problems of rural
poverty and natural resource degradation. It would
help restore sustainable range, forest and farming
activities in three provinces in the upper Euphrates
watershed, reducing soil degradation, erosion, and
sedimentation in reservoirs as well as increasing
productivity and incomes in this impoverished region
of Turkey. By using a participatory approach it
would strengthen farmers' planning and implementing
capacity, and improve the responsiveness of rural
services agencies to farmers' needs. A subproject
for jI-situ gene conservation supported by a Global
Environment Trust grant would establish, manage and
monitor sites for Ji-situ conservation of the wild
relatives of globally significant herbaceous and
woody species indigenous to Turkey.
Proiect Descriotions      The project would support development of a partici-
pato3ry approach to watershed rehabilitation in 54
micro-catchments in Malatya, Elazig and Adiyaman
provinces over a seven-year period. Treatments
would be integrated across a micro-catchment, and
selected and implemented with the participation of
the local population. Treatments would include
improved range management and enrichment,
reforestation and oak coppice rehabilitation,
improved crop husbandry and fodder production.
Supporting treatments would include small scale
irrigation, fruit tree cultivation and apiculture.



- ii -
The project would also strengthen provincial field
services and planning and coordination cayacity and
would provide for some applied research. The A&-
situ gene conservation subproject would support
surveys and inventories, selection and management of
jr-situ gene conservation areas, data management,
in-Alta gene conservation strategies, institutional
support, monitoring and training.
aenefits and Risks:       The benefits focus on poverty reduction and
sustainable resource management. The project would
increase vegetative cover and control soil
degradation. It would increase output of fodder,
fuelwood and other wood products, horticultural and
food crops. It would increase the incomes of poorer
farmers living in remote hilly areas in Easter&
Turkey. By supporting a participatory planning
approach it should make rural service agencies more
responsive to farmers' priorities. Its success
could prove a model for participatory natural
resource management and watershed rehabilitation in
Turkey and elsewhere. The ERR is estimated at 17%.
The GET subproject would protect Ji-situ the
biodiversity of wild relatives of globally
significant herbaceous and woody species.
Nevertheless, the project has technical and
institutional risks. Technologies are mostly well
confirmed but where this is not the case, treatments
are reduced to a pilot scale or phased. The project
requires coordination between provincial
institutions which do not have much experience of
working together. However, these institutions have
been closely involved in the project preparation and
are well-versed with and committed to an integrated,
participatory approach. Government has budgetary
constraints; project size has been adjusted so that
local budgetary commitments can be met. The project
is robust, to delays, cost increases and benefit
decreases.



- iii -
Costs. Financn. Disursemnt Sumert
Estimated Project Coits:
X Foreign      % Total
Loco fgryiun               Igtqj       Exchane       Be" Cost
Connont                                          .......- (USS million) -------
Strengthening Agency Capacity                           2.4           3.5           5.9          59              7
Watershed Rehabilitation                               40.5          18.2          58.7          31            67
Supporting Activities                                  14.7           8.1          22.8          36            26
Applied Research                                      .-7             0.1           0.8          17              1
Baseline Costs                                   58.3           22            Du            34           100
Physical Contingencies                                  5.8           2.8           8.6          32             10
Price Contingencies                                    9.7           3.3           13.0          25            1 
Total Project Costs                              73.8          36.0          109.8          33           125
GET subproject*                                         1.9           3.8           5.7          67            119
Grand Total                                      ZMJ7          39.8          115.
* Includes contingencies.
Finamcing PtanFoeg
Floreign
Total       Exchange
Source                                           LofForeimn                  Cid          Costs        _ osts
------- (US$ million) --------             (% of Project)
Goverinent                                            32.5            0.3          32.8          30              1
IBRO                                                                35 6 M.A0                    70            99
Sibtotal                                            73.8           35.9         109.8         100           100
GET Grant                                               1.3           3.8           5.1          89            100
Govt. Contribution                                     0.             Q0            0.           1
subtotal                                          1.9           3.8            5.7         100            00
Grand Total                                          _         39.8          115.
Estimated Comletion Date:              Watershed Project - March 31, 2000
GEt J.D-gj Subproject - September 30, 1996
Estimated IBRD and GET Disbursements:
IBR0 Fiscal Year
93 294    9S        525  6                          1  29    2000
----------------------------- .USS million) ---------------------
Watershed Prolect
Arnual                         0.75     11.7       13.5      11.1       13.6      14.3       9.4        2.6
Cumulative                     0.75     12.5      26.0       37.1      50.7       65.0      74.4       77.0
In-Situ Suborolect
Annual                         0.2       3.1        1.0       0.6        0.2
Cumulative                     0.2       3.3       4.3        4.9       5.1
Economic Rate of Return: 17X for Uatershed Rehabilitation Project. Not applicable for In-Situ Gene
Conservation Subproject
SAP: IBRD No. 24166 Turkey Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EASTEN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01     The Government of Turkey is attaching increasing priority to
sustainable environmental management, and in particular to natural resource
conservation. Soil degradation from erosion is one of the most serious
problems affecting long-term sustainability of agriculture; erosion affects 57
million hectares in Turkey, or over 70% of the land area of the country. The
Government has requested the World Bank to assis> in financing a project to
restore productivity through better soil and moisture conservation farming
practices in the Upper Watershed of the Euphrates River, in the three
provinces of Elazig, Malatya, and Adiyaman in Eastern Anatolia.
1.02     Soil degradation was recognized as a serious problem in the 1983
World Bank sector Report "Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth
with Exports" and confirmed in the draft report on Agricultural Resource
Conservation in Turkey (June 1992). This project was first identified by the
Turkish government in May 1990 and examined in a joint PAO/World Bank
identification mission which visited Turkey in April 1991. The project was
prepared by Consultants together with GOT from September 1991 to February
1992. It was preappraised by the World Bank in January 1992 and appraised in
June 1992. Post-appraisal took place in November 1992.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.03     Turkey has an area of 780,000 km2, including 78,000 km2 of lakes.
According to the latest agricultural census (1991) it has about 21 million ha
of cultivated land, 3.6 million ha of which are irrigated. Field crops
account for about 14.4 N ha, fallow land for 3.6 M ha, orchards and permanent
crops 2.3 m ha and vegetables for 0.6 M ha. Significantly, Turkey with a
population of 56 million is not only largely self-sufficient in food but has
considerable net agricultural exports. Agricultural GDP growth averaged 3.3%
annually over the 1985-90 period, contributing 17-18% of GDP. In addition,
clothing and textiles represented 37% of exports and other industries based on
agricultural raw materials about 16% of exports. About 4 million households
in Turkey are engaged in agriculture. Crops contribute about 56% of
agricultural GDP, animal products 32%, forestry 7% and fisheries 4%.
1.04     The country consists primarily of undulating plateaux rising
eastward from 800 m to 2,000 m, bordered by high mountains with fertile plains
next to the coast and in inland valleys. Much of the land is hilly, over one
third having slopes of more than 20%. Climate is characterized, except along
the coastal areas, by cold winters and hot dry summers. Much of the
precipitation, averaging from 350 to 600 mm (more along the coasts), falls in
winter and spring. This combination of climate and precipitation shortens the
growing season except along the coasts and increases the vulnerability of



- 2 -
soils to erosion, particularly if they are fallow or overgrazed, with sparse
vegetative cover.
1.05     The distribution of land-use, excluding lakes, urban land, national
parks and military reserves is indicated below in Table 1.
Table Is LAND USE IN TURREY
Cultivated Land                              Area {M ha)
Field crops:
Wheat                                           7.3
Barley                                          2.6
Rice                                            0.04
Sugarbeet                                       0.37
Sunflower                                       0.44
Oats                                            0.16
Chickpea                                        0.69
Lentil                                          0.48
others                                          2.35
of which cotton                               0.59
Of which tobacco                              0.24
Subtotal                                       14.43
Orchards & rermanent crops                        2.34
Vegetables                                        0.59
Fallow                                            3.63
Cultivated land subtotal                         20.99
Land suitable for farming but not in use          2.16
Permanent range and meadow                       12.37
Forest land                                      19.23
Area unsuitable for farming                      11.34
Total                                       66.09
Total Area of Turkey                             78.00
Source: 1991 Census (preliminary results subject to change).
1.06     Cultivated land is dominated by cereal production, which accounts
for nearly 50% of cultivated area. Forest land accounts for 25% of the land
area; however, over half of this is seriously degraded and unproductive for
forest purposes. Rangeland accounts for a further 16%. Range area has been
reduced by half since 1950 as low fertility, often steeply sloping land has
been brought into cultivation, while cropped area has increased by 60%.
Farmland is largely privately owned. Average farm size is 6.5 hal however 62%



of farms are under 5 ha. Fragmentation through inheritance is an issue; the
proportion of farms with 6 or more parcels increased from 31% to 41% between
the 1970 and :;980 censuses. Fragmentation increases the difficulties of using
soil and moisture conserving cultivation techniques across a sub-watershed.
1.07     In addition to cereals Turkey grows a wide range of crops;
particularly important are chickpeas and lentils for which Turkey ii a
significant exporter; area planted to legumes has increased significantly as
the result of a successful fallow-reduction project introduced by the Turkish
government in the early 19809. Fruit trees are also important and Turkey
exports large quantities of apricots, hazelnuts and raisins. In the west and
south horticulture and citrus are of importance, while cotton and tobacco make
an important contribution to industrial exports and meet local market demands.
Turkey, where three major phytogeographical regions converge, is unusually
rich in its range and variety of plants. More than 3,000 species are known to
be endemic, including wild relatives and landraces of the major crop species
that feed the world (wkeat, barley, lentils, chickpeas, pasture plants and
horticultural and forest plants). Plant breeders from all over the world use
these strains to develop enhanced varieties that are more productive and are
resistant to cold, drought, salinity and disease.
1.08     Livestoc% is a major resource in Turkey, accounting for 32% of
agricultural GDP, and comprising 16 million cattle and buffalo, 45 million
sheep, 11 million goats, 1.4 million equines and 64 million poultry. Mixed
farming is the predominant farming system, with 86% of farms producing both
livestock and crops. Animals feed on range and pasture grasses in the summer,
and crop residues, conserved forages and purchased concentrate in the winter.
The winter diet is often deficient, and animals are frequently put out to
graze on communally owned rangeland too early in the spring for vegetation to
be well established. Rotational grazing is rarely practiced, further reducing
range p:oductivity.  Increased fodder production on agricultural land would
reduce pressure on fragile rangelands. In the center and east vegetative
cover averages only 10-20% compared with the 40% that is necessary to control
erosion effectively and the 80-90% that could be achieved with proper
Aanagement; yields, currently 100 to 500 kilos of dry matter per hectare could
be tripled. Turkey has many indigenous legumes and grasses and the production
potential of the rangelands is good from a genetic standpoint. overgrazing,
however, is weakening the genetic resource base.
1.09     Forest land accounts for 25% of land area.  Forests vary from
productive, well managed coniferous and mixed deciduous/coniferous forests
along the Black Sea and Mediterranean coasts to the degraded oak coppice
forest, used and overexploited for fuelwood and fodder, that is characteristic
of Eastern and South-Eastern Anatolia. Poor management of rangelands has
incraosed grazing pressure on forest lands and also lowered their productive
potential. Approximately 40% of forest land is classified as productive and
60% as unproduct've. Annual production of fuelwood is estimated at 28 million
m3, and fuelwood accounts for about 20% of household energy consumption.
Approximately 8 million people live in villages in and around forest areas.
They have access to forest products at reduced prices and are employed in
forest management programs. While in some areas relations between foresters
and the local community have been good, in others there have been tensions.



- 4 -
Nevertheless forestry staff, of all the government rural support services,
have the most contacts with forest village populations and tsns most experience
In working to conserve soils in difficult upland areas.
1.10     Development obiectives.  GOT's agricultural sector development
objectives are to: (a) modernize production techniques to raise productivity,
yields, farmers' incomes and reduce dependence on the weather; (b) maintain
the food requirements of the population; and (c) promote agricultural exports.
1.11     Strategies.  Government introduced many key economic reforms in the
early 1980s whose aims were to encourage private sector and market forces for
increased efficiency and growth. In agriculture, although these reforms were
more limited, input trade and distribution was gradually liberalized,
regulatory restrictions were reduced and the privat sector played an
increasing role in crop marketing. Overall throughout the 1980s there was a
policy bias against agriculture compared with industry, though the degree of
"policy bias was limited. In 1992, however, the sector has been more favored
through price support and input subsidy policies. GOT plans to reexamine
these over the next years. in general, both the research and extension
subsectors suffered from declining government budgetary support, especially in
the late 1980s. This lack of support has been reflected in disappointing
progress in yields, further exacerbated by crop husbandry techniques which do
not emphasize soil and water conservation.
Bank's tricMltural Strategy
1.12     Agricultural lending has aimed at increasing output productivity and
exports, and supporting the necessary policy and institutional reforms in the
sector.  This has included:
(a)   Supporting institutional strengthening and particularly technical
support services of research and extension, improving irrigation
agencies' implementation capabilities especially at on-farm level
and reforming government enterprises involved in agricultural
marketing and input supply;
(b)   rationalizing the public sector investment program especiallv in
irrigation;
(c)   expanding credit supply, especially for medium and small farms,
together with increasing the efficiency of credit institutions and
improving financial sector policies to encourage greater private
investment in the sector;
(d)   reducing subsidies and price supports to prompt increased use of
market forces, interest rate reform and increased private sector
involvement in agricultural marketing;
(e)   increased focus on environmental concerns, to ensure that in the
long run Turkey preserves the resource base for sustainable
agriculture; and



- 5 -
(f)   increasing gupport for improving agricultural productivity in the
poorer Eastern provinces, which have been relatively neglected until
recently.
C. Bank Grout Lending for Argiculture
1.13     As of December 1991 the Bank group had supported 26 agricultural
projects in Turkey; however, 20 are closed and only 6 are under
implementation. Lending to the sector has declined through the 1980.. The
ongoing projects include an irrigation/drainage project, a credit project, an
agroindustries project and two extension projects with applied research
components. An Agricultural Research Project was approved in May 1992. This
project includes provision for support to Research Institutions in Eastern
Turkey, whose work programs focus on support to farming systems in cold,
drought-prone areas with soils vulnerable to erosion. 8ome of the provinces
receiving support under the Extension projects are also in Eastern Turkey.
Earlier Bank projects included support for Rural Development Projects, and two
such projects are currently ongoing with IFAD support. The Bank also
supported a Forestry Project in the 1970s. However, this would be the first
watershed management project, integrating activities on range, forest and
agricultural land to improve productivity by focussing on activities which
conserve soil and moisture and reduce erosion, and ensure the long-term
sustainability of farming in the watershed.
1.14     Experience with project implementation has been mixed.  The main
difficulties have included procurement delays and inadequate local funding.
Government is well aware of these difficulties and is no longer wil:ing to
agree to new projects unless counterpart funding will be available   The
Ministry of Forestry (MOP), which would be the coordinating agency for the
proposed project, hae in general suffered less than the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) from budgetary shortfalls since many of
its expenditures are financed from internally generated funds. It has also
retained a strong central management which has facilitated the making of
decisions and allocation of priorities.
1.15     Recent reviews of projects in Turkey include those of the Second
Agricultural Credit Project, the Erzurum Rural Development Project, and the
Northern Forestry Project. The Erzurum Rural Development Project Completion
Report (PCR) concludes that even in less developed areas in Turkey farmers
respond readily to an appropriate development package. It also highlights the
need for participation of beneficiaries in project preparation. The Northern
Forestry Project PCR emphasizes the importance of realistic project
preparation, and the need for technologies to have been tested in Turkey
before they are introduced on a large scale.
1.16     Watershed Rehabilitation projects are relatively new in the Bank,
and few have yet been completed. PPARs on two early ones, however, suggest
the following. For the Philippines Watershed Management and Erosion Control
Project (Loan 1890-PH, August 1980), the PCR (September 1991) emphasized the
need for a thorough understanding of prevailing legislation, simplification of
organizational arrangements, a reasonable time frame for project
implementation and the importance of securing the support of local communities



in project planning and implementation. For the India Kandi Watershed and
Area Development Project (Loan 18!"i-IN, September 1980) the PPAR (December
1991) emphasized the value of addressing man-induced environmental degradation
in upper watersheds, and the broader value of the project as providing the
starting point for other watershed management projects in India.
1.17     Government initially requested Bank assistance with financing a
project focussing on reforestation, improved range management and
environmentally sustainable farming in 17 provinces in Eastern Turkey. It was
realized that a project with such a wide geographical area would be difficult
to implement, and project size was reduced to the 10 provinces of the upper
watershed of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, where erosion problems appeared
to be particularly severe. Furthermore, because of poor endowment of natural
resources, compounded by a harsh climate, income levels in these areas are
relatively lower. Project area was further reduced, to the three provinces of
Elazig, Malatya and Adiyaman in the middle catchment of the upper watershed,
principally for logistical reasons, and partly because provincial government
officials in these provinces were most ready to work with local communities.
II. PROJECT AREA AND RATIONALE
A. Definition of Area
2.01     The project concerns the rehabilitation of ten highly degraded
subcatchments in the middle basin of the Euphrates river. These subcatchments
cover an area of about 1.5 N ha within the provinces of Elazig, Malatya and
Adiyaman and can be broken down into 214 microcatchments (MCs). They have
been selected to exclude plains areas which experience minor problems of
degradation. On the basis of an analysis of the implementing capacity of
concerned agencies 54 of these NCs covering an area of about 400,000 ha will
be treated during the seven year project period. The provincial forestry
department would in consultation with other agencies be responsible for
selection and MCs with a larger proportion of range and forest land would be
given priority. The criteria for selection of MCs will inr.lude judgements
about (i) the severity of problems in terms of vegetative degradation and soil
erosion including the imbalance between the supply and demand for fodder and
wood; (ii) the prospects for achieving an adequate return to the treatments
offered under the project; and (iii) the extent to which the problems are
recognized by the MC population and there is a willingness to explore
solutions. Eighteen NCs have been tentatively identified while the remaining
36 will be selected during the course of project implementation. The
definition of the project area is summarized in table 2.1 below (see also
Annex 1A, Table 1B).



Table 2.1s DEFINITION OF PROJECT AREA
PrOyte -C         amo           Ar..    A -sr;e   Avera    Niat -     ea
Etiri.fluNa#    - 0                          1 ,4..-00 ... 
,.'  ..                          "   .. ' *: ..... 
<~~T   (part 4x                       10,00 .
B. Phslcal Characteristics
2.02     The climate in the project area is semi-arid and harsh.
Precipitation averages between 350 to 600 mm and much of it falls in the form
of snow. Summers (June-September) are very hot and dry. The geology of the
area is extremely complex and soils are variable with a high proportion of
erodible materials (fine-grained sediments, acid igneous rock, and
unconsolidated parent material or 40ft rock).  The topography is characterized
by  steep  slopes interspersed by valleys of varying width.  The  0egetativ0
ooverage on forest and range lands is poor and 35PA of the project area (middle
Basin) is severely and 441 strongly eroded (both shoot and gully erosion).
The mean annual soil clmt in the project area is estimated at a very high 40-
50 tons per hectare. Erosion is particularly high during the snow melt and
intense rainfall in the spring.
2.03     Out of the cultivated area in the three provinces about 17.S5b is
irrigated, 7.5e i( devoted to orchards (mainly apricot) and the reoainong 7the
ia under rainfed cereal productions about one third of thig area io fallowed
under the prevailing cropping system. The main cereal crop is wheat which is
reported to yield 1.5 to 2 tons per ha under rainfed conditions and double
that under irrigation. Yields have not changed rignificantly during the lant
ten years.  other crops include barley, tobacco, pulses and vegetables.



Fodder production is rarely integrated into the cropping system. The pleins
which to a large extent are excluded from the project area, support more
intensive cropping and have a higher proportion of irrigation. The mid-
slopes, which lie between the plains and the ridges and have slopes between 8%
and 30%, are of major concern to the project. Crop production there is less
stable and mainly rainfed, although there is some irrigation in combination
with terracing. Orchards comprise a larger proportion of cultivated area than
on the plains. Even shallow soils and steep slopes have, wherever possible,
been brought under cultivation. Some mountain villages also practice
subsistence cereal production on the highland plateaux under marginal
conditions. Major problems identified by project area farmers include the
short growing season, lack of fodder and fuelwood, moisture stress and low
productivity in dryland farming systems. Inadequate drinking water supplies,
caused in part by the drying of springs due to excessive runoff, are also
identified as a problem.
2.04     Rangelands constitute, as noted above, 40% of the project area and
have yields varying from 100-500 kg dry matter per hectare. The opportunities
of conversion of range land to cultivated land have been more than fully
exploited. Land used for feeding of livestock is commonly classified into
three types:
-   highland range (yayla) i.e. rangelands with summer houses on the
high plateaux which are used for communal grazing by transhumant
herds during the summer months;
-   rangelands (mera) i.e. upland areas which are used for communal
grazing;
-   meadowlands (cayir) i.e. highly productive spring watered grasslands
which are used for hay production. They occupy a very small
proportion of the land area (only about 3,000 ha in the three
provinces).
The range- and meadowlands belong to the government ,Treasury) but villages
are reported to have exclusive usufruct rights (see also Annex 2 para 5). The
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs is responsible for overall range
management; this will be formalized in a Rangeland Law shortly to be
considered by Parliament.
2.05     Livestock production in the three provinces is based on some 1.4 M
sheep, 0.45 M goats and 0.45 M cattle.  The long winter necessitates stall
feeding for 5-6 months using scarce crop by-products, hay from meadows and
better rangelands, oak leaves from lopping of oak forest and purchased
concentrate. The number of livestock units has not increased significantly in
the last 20 years, but the productive range area has diminished. The
objectives of livestock keeping have changed with draught power diminishing in
importance. Due to the increasing shortage of labor, there is the beginning
of a trend away from large flocks of small ruminants, requiring much labor for
shepherding and milking, towards stall feeding and milking of improved dairy
cattle. The scarcity of winter fodder, which means keeping livestock outside
for as long as possible in the fall and releasing them early in the spring,



- 9 -
together with general over stocking has had disastrous effects on vegetative
coverage and species composition. The range lands are thus rapidly
deteriorating and are by now a major source of erosion. The decreasing
productivity of the range is fortunately recognized by farmers and, together
with the scarcity of winter fodder and labor shortages for shepherding, seen
as major problems in livestock production.
2.06     Forest land belongs to the government and is administered by the
Ministry of Forestry but is used on a controlled basis by villages for fuel
and fodder. Degraded rangeland may also be allocated to the Forestry
administration for rehabilitation, and this sometimes causes friction with the
villagers. However, by and large boundaries are respected and villagers do
not encroach onto land managed by MO0 for rehabilitation purposes unless
allowed to do so. Although the project area reportedly contained dense oak
forests some 30 to 50 years ago, exploitation before nationalization of these
lands and increasing pressure on natural resources have resulted in most of
the forest area (88%) now being classified as bush, rather similar in
appearance to the rangelands. Protection until recently has focused on the
small proportion of remaining forests and particularly on the areas which have
been rehabilitated or planted. Thin, often infertile soils and low and badly
distributed rainfall cause slow woody biomass growth averaging 1-2 cubic
meters per hectare per year.
C. Social Characteristics
2.07     Although socioeconomic data comparing the project area with the rest
of Turkey are not available, aggregated data indicate that the project
provinces are substantially poorer than Turkey as a whole, while incomes in
the rural mountainous areas of the project area are below the average for the
project provinces. Rural incomes in Turkey are lower than urban incomes, and
those in Eastern and South-Eastern Anatolia are lower than those elsewhere in
the country. According to the Household Income and Consumption Survey of
1987, per capita incomes in Eastern and South-Eastern Anatolia were 67% of the
Turkish average, while rural per capita income was 60% of urban. Food
absorbed 46% of household expenditure in rural Eastern and South-Eastern
Turkey (a money value was given to home produce) compared with 32% for Turkey
as a whole. Other significant indicators include fertility, 5 in the east
compared with 4 for all Turkey, and infant mortality which in 1985 averaged
66/1,000 for Turkey, compared with 95/1,000 in Elazig and Adiyaman project
provinces (including urban and rural areas). Female literacy averaged 50% for
the project provinces (again including urban and rural areas) compared with
62% for Turkey.
2.08     The average village in the three provinces has a population of about
600 people and embraces an area of roughly 2000 hectares. Settlement is
rather scattered and the village frequently contains a core and a number of
smaller settlement units. On average there are three units per village. The
microcatchment would normally cover an area with about 4 to 6 villages. The
village is administered by an elected headman (Muhtar) who executes the laws
and decisions of Government and by the Council of Elders which is an advisory
body containing elected as well as appointed members (teacher, religious
leader). Cultivated land is privately owned; a survey in Eastern Anatolia



- 10 -
indicated considerable fragmentation as the average farm contained about 6
parcels of land. In the project area, farm size is smaller than the national
average and some 13% of villagers have no cultivated land. The same survey
concluded that almost all households keep some cattle, sheep and/or goats.
Livestock is the main economic activity in some of the villages where
livestock producers tend to leave in May for the highland pastures and return
to the home village in October.
2.09     The rural population in the three provinces, 816,000 in the 1990
census, constitutes about half of the total. The population of the project
area is estimated at about 230,000. Annual growth of rural population between
1985 and 1990, according to the 1990 census, was 1.49% in Adiyaman but
negative in Elazig (-0.80%) and Malatya (-1.10%), compared with a national
average of 2.3% per annum and a national rural average of 0.67% per annum.
There is thus a clear trend of movement towards urban centers. Patterns of
population movement include dual residences, summers in the village - winters
in the city, releasing young male members to work in Istanbul while other
family member pursue farming, or seasonal agricultural wage labor by part or
the entire family. Agriculture and livestock are in some cases increasingly
becoming secondary sources of livelihood (less so in Adiyaman) and many
households in Elazig and Malatya have substantial non-farm earnings. There is
a strong cultural attachment to land and the home region and few families
appear willing to dispose of the land and move away permanently. Women play
an important role in agricultural production. Women are responsible for the
care of livestock in addition to their domestic responsibilities and child
rearing. With the male work force increasingly engaged in non-farm employment
the women have to take over most of the agricultural work and/or reduce the
farm operations.
D. Infrastructure
2.10     The project area has a well developed road network which permits
access during most of the year. While snow temporarily may block high
elevation passes principal routes are reopened within a matter of days.
Tertiary roads may occasionally be cut by erosion. Electricity and telephone
service is available in most project area villages. Electricity is used
principally for lighting; the preferred cooking fuel is gas while fuelwood is
used for heating. Markets and marketing organizations operate freely
throughout the project area and marketing should thus not be a constraint in
project implementation with the possible exception of fresh milk. There are
two main sources of credit, the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) and the
Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (TRK). The Forest Village Development Fund
(ORKOY) also provides credit to forest villages.
E. The Tnstitutional Setting
2.11     Administratively the state is represented at the provincial level by
a Governor (Vali) reporting to the Ministry of Interior. The elected village
leader (Muhtar) reports to the Governor through the Kaymakan (county governor)
at the county level. Almost all Ministries are represented at the provincial
level by provincial directors. The organizations relevant to the project are
the Provincial Forestry Directorates reporting to the relevant directorate in



- 11 -
the Ministry of Forestry (MOF), the Provincial Rural services Directorates
reporting to the General Directorate of Rural Services (1HGM) in MARA, and the
Provincial Agricultural Departments (PDA) reporting directly to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA). Provincial work programs for Rural
Services (i.e. roads, water supply and small-scale irrigation) and Forestry
are prepared provincially and approved at national level by the relevant
General Directorate. For agriculture they are prepared by the Provincial
Agricultural Directorates, and approved directly by the Ministry. Thus, no
single General Directorate in Ankara is responsible for agricultural
activities at provincial level. The responsibility for natural resource
preservation is fragmented although a Ministry of Envirornment (MOE) has
recently been established at the national level. Key ministries are well
established and functioning. An agricultural extension system has existed for
many years in Turkey at provincial, county and village levels, while the
Provincial Directorates of Forestry also have staff at county and village
level. The Ministry of Forestry also has a Forest Village Development Fund
(ORXOY), which finances various income generating activities in villages in
forest areas. The present staffing of the Ministries of Forestry, and
Agriculture and Rural Affairs in the three project provinces is given in Table
2.2 below. The administrations are for the most part well staffed, and the
project is expected to be implemented with existing staff resources. As
regards In-pitU gene conservation, research has a long tradition in Turkey,
with a research establishment of over 8,000.  MARA has experience in ex-_Jt
gene conservation while MOF has experience in land management. The project
would build on the complementary strengths of the two agencies.



- 12 -
Table 2.2x PROJEZLCT ROVINCES: STAFFING OF KEY MINISTRIES
F~~  ZMO ?AY OA
i_O _  E  _           *. _ E  E . .
212    esp$jan the                    103frihrsarh*tbihetthr  8n   rga
wihsubtomtlall  x1fi  aglnanmedwaaeetad
*rdc$iy DRPlyARTNENaact wtint  poec   re *                           h
For-st~~~ Rasear¢       w#6let  at3    107i (and tho Aprl4o  444ac   Insitue o
Malatya.  Ersuru*x*** R660na  Ro75ro     (62)t lies  in 9 the hih outan  on
wh.l th   serhloiu    tDyrai   arolue   n   aluf   si
an  atrreers)et   tutd  nth   owpaiszoe
2.3 AogoglBatltigl  h  he poicsteScn
2.12ec whehsptethe lang T991kish rsarc demostrablihmnt ther exeisenoe progm
whic Esystematiclly Rnexaie reangpeland Foagd meaow manageeint andeenedi
teproductity Thea,tof onl aesearchscapacit vTheinitetpryojec aoreastheanual
FoestcuResearc w Uastitut atg Blfi andl thnervpricot, resarch Institueof
andpwater reseabictai) are sitatednthelow plahinsth prone.tae.Ti



- 13 -
program reached a peak of 19,000 ha in 1987 but has in recent years stagnated
at an annual treatment of 11,000 ha. The General Directorate of Rural
Services (KHGM) within NARA has substantial experience in the three provinces
with small-scale irrigation schemes in hilly areas fed with water from springs
and streams, and with structural soil conservation. Rural service agencies
have not in the past, however, integrated their activities in a particular
geographical area.
F. Prolect Rationale
Rationale for Bank Lending
2.14     The project would conform to the Bank lending strategy for Turkey,
which includes increased focus on environmental issues, and increased
assistance to the poorer provinces of Eastern Turkey. By improving
sustainability of forestry, livestock and agriculture, the project would
contribute to increased productivity and higher rural incomes in these areas.
It would also strengthen coordination between the agencies responsible for
providing rural services. Because of the focus on poverty and natural
resource protection, GOT is fully committed to the project. Concerned
provincial agencies have been closely involved in the preparation process, at
central and provincial levels, and no other significant external funding
source is available. institutions are able to expand activities but financial
resources and equipment are limited. The In Situ Gene Conservation subproject
supports, for the first time, the conservation in their natural environment of
the wild relatives of globally significant food and forest species. This
innovative biodiversity activity could become a model for JR-situ conservation
elsewhere.
1In.  THE_OJECT
A.  Qbiectives
3.01     The project addresses important problems of rural poverty and
natural resource degradation. The project catchments embrace valleys, rolling
hills and rugged mountains. Close to 80% of the area is strongly to severely
eroded, vegetation is badly degraded, soils are shallow in many places, runoff
and soil loss are very high. The project would help to restore sustainable
range, forest and farming activities in the upper watersheds of the three
project provinces, reducing soil degradation, erosion and sedimentation in
reservoirs as well as increasing productivity and incomes in this impoverished
region of Turkey. These objectives would be pursued by efforts (i) to improve
productivity of range and forest land; (ii) to promote the production of
fuelwood, cultivated fodder, and more sustainable use of marginal farm lands;
(iii) to facilitate the adoption of treatments for range and forest land by
funding selected supporting activities designed to yield quick benefits; and
(iv) to ensure increased responsibility and involvement of local communities
in the planning and management of their resources. A key underlying objective
of the project is environmental rehabilitation of degraded land. The _n-Situ
Gene conservation subproject would initially focus on sites in Western, South-



- 14 -
Eastern and Central-Southern Anatolia. Its objective would be the
conservation in their natural habitat of the genetic resources of globally
significant species indigenous to Turkey.
3.02     Watershed development is a continuous process in which the main
rehabilitation phase is followed by a maintenance and management phase to
ensure that improvements are sustained and growth in productivity keeps pace
with population and the needs for income and employment. The main features of
the proposed approach include:
(a) Interactive microcatchment (MC) planning (see Annex 4) using a
"Farmer-Centered, Problem-Census, Problem-Solving" (FC-PCPS)
approach, involving discussion of farmers' perceptions of problems,
a menu of treatment options (Annex 5) as a basis for agreement on
possible solutions, and a flexible design to incorporate lessons of
experience, results of adaptive research and demonstrations. Plans
for each village in the microcatchment would be the building blocks
of the microcatchment plans and annual budget requests.
(b) Coordination of provincial departmental efforts within the framework
of the MC plans to ensure that the treatments of cultivated land,
rangelands and forestlands reinforce each other in restoration of
sustainable land-use and alleviation of constraints e.g. fodder and
fuelwood shortages.
(c) Strengthening the village capacity to organize management of
communal rangelands and to form a partnership with the Ministry of
Forestry for protection and resource sharing for forest lands.
(d) Emphasizing soil fertility management and vegetative means of soil
and moisture conservation rather than expensive terracing and
drainage line treatments.
(e) Emphasizing stallfeeding, forage production and conservation, and
upgrading of livestock to diminish pressures on range.
3.03     Large parts of Turkey face problems of natural resource degradation
similar to those in the project area. The project is thus expected to provide
a useful model for future efforts not only in the upper reaches of the Firat
(Euphrates) basin but also elsewhere in Turkey. The replicability and cost
effectiveness of the approach will thus be a major objective.
B. Summary Description
3.04     The means for project implementation would be through an interactive
planning process, whereby local implementing agencies work together with
villagers to prepare and implement a plan across a microcatchment, defining
interventions for improved range management, reforestation and improved soil
and moisture cultivation methods. These measures would bring a mix of short-
term and long-term benefits, and would lead to a sustained increase in
fuelwood, fodder and agricultural production. Since villagers will select
from a menu of interventions, the proportion of project costs devoted to each



- 15 -
activity cannot be determined in advance with any accuracy. The appraisal
mission has prepared a "best estimate", for the purpose of costs and benefit
calculations, based on field work during project preparation. Six
microcatchment plans, sufficient for the first year 's implementation, have
been prepared (see Annex 14), and the implementation plan for 1993 is
summarized in Annex 15. Activities would be initiated in two microcatchments
in each province in the first year, three in each province in years two and
three, four in years four and five, and two in year six. Microcatchments
treated in a particular year would be grouped within a subwatershed, in order
to facilitate the logistics of project implementation. The microcatchment
planning process is summarized in paras 4.08-4.10, and described in more
detail in Annex 4. The main components of the project would include:
(a) Rehabilitation of an estimated 54 microcatchments through a series
of treatments on cultivated, range and forest lands with the
participation of the local population. These include fallow
reduction, increased fodder production, soil and moisture conserving
farming techniques, improved range management and range enrichment,
oak coppice rehabilitation and afforestation;
(b) Supporting activities with short and medium-term income benefi..s to
the local population, including small-scale irrigation, horticulture
and apiculture;
(c) Support to project planning and management;
(d) Adaptive research and pilot work to supplement and improve the menu
of treatment opticns; and
(e) For the GEF subproject activities include survey and inventory,
management of selected sites, monitoring and data management,
institutional strengthening and preparation of a national plan for
gene conservation.
C. Detailed Features
(a) Watershed Rehabilitation (US$58.7 million)
3.05     The volume of treatments has been estimated from the size of the
project area, land uses (see Table 2.1 and Annex Tables 1A and 1B), the
physical characteristics of the project area and the general experience of
adoption of such treatments. As mentioned above, activities need to be
integrated across a watershed and among land uses in order to bring about
sustained improvements, and the right balance of short-term and long-term
benefits.
3.06     Improvements in Farming Practices IUSS3.4 million).  The project
would promote technical packages which increase sustainable productivity,
increase integration of livestock and cropping systems and control erosion.
Activities include:



- 16 -
(a) promotion of food and forage legumes (chickpeas, lentils, vetch) on
existing fallow land to enhance soil fertility and expand food
production and the availability of forage;
(b) introduction of conservation tillage using sweep tined cultivators
along the contour on slopes exceeding 4%;
(c) strengthening the present efforts to promote early planting, use of
high yielding cold tolerant cultivars, fertilizers and the use of
minimum tillage; and
(d) encouraging conversion of marginal land to perennial fodder banks
(planting of sainfoin).
3.07     The project would finance on a grant basis the seed and fertilizer
package for the first year for farmers who adopt the recommended treatments,
and would undertake demonstrations of improved tillage practices. For fodder
banks the project would also include the costs of preparing the seedbed and
broadcast the seed for the first year. Project costs include seed (vetch,
alfalfa, sainfoin, chickpeas, lentils, HYV wheat) fertilizers (DAP, ammonium
nitrate) and seedbed preparation. Activities are described in more deta-l in
Annex 1A.
3.08     Rangelands (USS4.5 million).  The objective would be to increase
sustainable productivity by promoting improved management systems over the
bulk of the rangeland and rangeland enrichment over a limited land area of
higher potential that would respond to such treatment. Activities include:
(a) improved management by farmers of communal rangeland, including
encouragement of rotational grazing, with a later start and an
earlier end to the grazing season, to allow recovery of vegetation.
Range management plans would be prepared with full participation by
villagers, and extension staff and farmers would be trained in
improved participatory range management techniques;
(b) enrichment seeding and fertilization of degraded rangeland capable
of increased production, initially on a pilot basis, through
improved soil nutrition combined with grazing management; and
(c) enrichment through fertilization of range and meadowland with
adequate seed population to increase hay production, initially on a
pilot basis, again combined with grazing management.
Project costs include training, seed and seed pelleting, fertilizer, soil
ripping where appropriate to increase moisture retention, and labor.
Activities are described in more detail in Annex 2.
3.09     Forest land (US$36.8 million).  Although forest land belongs to
Government it is frequently used by villagers. Sustainable rehabilitation
will require close cooperation between villages and MOP staff to determine the
best combinations of treatments according to village preferences and site
conditions. Emphasis will be placed on cost-effective measures which produce



- 17 -
early increases in production while maintaining at least 40% vegetative cover
over soils. Proposed treatments includes
(a) oak coppice rehabilitation which would comprisG folling existing
degraded oak stands prior to encouraging coppaiing, together with
enrichment sowing of acorns in open areasl
(b) fuelwood coppice plantations which involve oak planting and acorn
seeding sites which are manually prepared and/or mechanically ripped
to encourage moisture conservationj
(c) soil conservation afforestation which would comprise earth terracing
by mechanical means where necessary, planting trees along ripped and
fertilized terraces, planting acorns between the bulldozed earth
terraces, and broadcast seeding of the entire area with a mixture of
forage seed, grass seed and fertilizers. Gullies would be
revegetated, and small check dams constructed where necessary;
(d) establiuhment of conifer plantations by planting on mechanically or
manually prepared slopes;
(e) rangeland rehabilitation by broadcast seeding with a mixture of
forage seed, grass seed and fertilizers, and gully rehabilitation
with checkdams and tree planting; and
(f) riverbank protection through planting of poplars.
3.10     Project costs would include planting material (including acorns,
seedling trees e.g., robinia, fruit trees, nut trees, conifers etc., and
forage seed), survey, labor and machinery costs, fertilizer and initial
maintenance costs. Activities re described in move detail in Annex 3.
Strengthening Field Services (USS14.0 millon)
3.11     The project would provide technical assistance and training to
strengthen the provincial Forestry, Agriculture and Rural Services
directorates to enable them to carry out the above activities. Training would
be mostly in-country, but would also comprise short overseas courses. For the
Provincial Agricultural Departments the project would finance agricultural
equipment, vehicles and office equipment. For XGHG the project would finance
survey equipment, tractors, caravans, 4WD vehicles and office equipment. Most
of the work undertaken by hUGX would be executed by contractors. For the
provincial Forestry Departments the project would finance nurseries, labor,
4WD vehicles, bulldozers, caravans, tractors and related implements, and
office equipment (US$10.2 million).
(b) Income Supporting Activities (USS22.8 million)
3 12     The above activities, which bring a mix of short-term and long-term
benefits, would be complemented by supporting activities bringing short-term
increases in income. These would normally constitute about 2s% of the total



- 18 -
cost of rehabilitation activities in any one microcatchment. They would
include:
(i)  Beek2eling.  This activity has Important externalities in terms of
conservation of vegetative cover and resource rehabilitation.
Furthermore it has a long tradition in the project area. The
provision of modern apiculture kits is linked to individuals
adopting rehabilitation treatments such as perennial fodder banks,
fallow reduction measures etc. The project would provide
apiculture kits consisting of beehives and swarms and a set of
equipment to farmers in each microcatchment through the forest
village credit program of ORKOY (Forest Village Development Fund)
(see Annex IA Attachment 1).
(ii) Horticulture in gullies and along boundaries. High value fruit and
nut, robinia, willow and poplar trees would be planted in gullies
and along boundaries for participating households, the cost of the
seedlings being met through the project.
(iii)  UDarading of livestock.  The project would strengthen existing
services to upgrade the existing livestock, through natural and
artificial insemination, including provision of reliable supplies of
lolstein and Brown Swiss semen for crossing with local Anatolian
cows. Breeding bulls would be made available.
(iv)  Drvland terracing.  The project would finance construction of small
intervalled earth bench terraces on selected sloping dryland farming
areas, to reduce erosion and increase water infiltration. The
terraces would be mechanically prepared to promote moisture
retention and roct growth and planted to tree crops, with grapes,
sainfoin and votch, cereal and legumes grown between the terraces
(see Annex 1B).
(v) Small-scale irrication. The project would f'nance small irrigation
schemes through diversion of springs and streams, construction of
small water ponds and tertiary channels (Annex 1B). Higher value
crops particularly tree crops would be grown on the irrigated lands.
(c) Planninf and Management (USS5.9 million)
3.13     The project would provide training, technical assistance and
logistical support to the provincial authorities and to a small Project
Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU) which has been established in the
Ministry of Forestry in Ankara. An estimated 97 manmonths of international
and 39 manmonths of local technical assistance would be required, to assist in
project implementation, in watershed management, range management, local
participation, monitoring and evaluation/MIS and adaptive research and to
carry out specialized studies related to M&E. A total of 108 manmonths of
short-term overseas training/study tours, 30,000 mandays of farmer training
and 950 manmonths of on-the-job in-country training is envisaged. G6T agreed
at neaotiationg to sign the first principal Technical Assistance Contract for
assistance in project implementation by 1st October 1993 (para 6.02(h)). A



- 19 -
separate local Ta contract to assess p3ssibilities of adapting the project to
othor provinces is envisaged in years four and five. Short-term in country
training would be funded, as would office equipment and vehicles. A
geographical information (GIs) system and related technical assistance and
training to assist provincial staff in mapping and watershed planning would be
financed beginning in year 3.
(d) Anlied Research (USSO.8 million)
3.14     A flexible aprroach would be followed for adaptive research, with
new topics added as appropriate. The following programs are ongoing or
planned and would be supported in the project area (see Annex 12 for details).
3.15     Ministry of Forestry.  Research would examine: (a) the effects of
bench terracing and ripping related to success and cost-effectiveness of
afforestation, erosion control and soil and moisture conservation; (b) the
effects and cost-effectiveness of fertilizers on the s_rvival and growth of
oak seedings; (c) comparisons of survival and growth of seedlings after
different preparation techniques; and (d) community management of selected
rehabilitated forest areas.
3.16     Ministrv of Agriculture and Rural Affairs.  Research activities
would include: (a) run off trials to estimate soil loss from cultivated land
and range lands of varying slopes; (b) testing and demonstration of various
cold tolerant species and varieties of forage and food legumes for the fallow
reduction and rangeland enrichment programs; (c) equipment and methods for
sustainable seedbed preparation on slopes in excess of 4%; (d) Pilot aerial
seeding and fertilization program for 5,000 ha of degraded rangelands; and (e)
pilot assignment certificates for communal rangelands.
(e) In-Situ Gene Conservation Sub_roiect Activities (USS4.8 million)
3.17     Activities comprises
(i) Genetic resources survey of selected sites, and designation if gene
management zones;
(ii) Genetic resource inventory, preparation and implementation of
management plans for gene management zones;
(iii) Data management,
(iv) Preparation of a national plan for in-situ conservation of wild crop
relatives, woody species and landraces; and
(v) Institutional collaboration and strengthening.



- 20 -
Table 3.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY
watershed Rehabiltatfon ProJect
Eastern Aratolia
TLOOO                                 U$0
, _ _ ......     .........          .....    ... --.--- ... --.----......-...........  X Foreign
Local      Foreign         Total        Local Forelign    Total          Exhae
.. .. _...... ....... _...... _..........................    ................. ..........   ...................... 
A . Strengthnsg Ageney Cey
1. Plaming and Hamneemat            2096525      30712500      51674823         Z383      3491     5874               59
B . Watershed Rehabilitation
1  Cropland Soil Noist. Cons         6283          1694937      79781            714       193      907 
2. Croptand Faltow Reductlon        14124296       7596885     21721181         1606       864     2469               35
3. Range4eadcutand Enrichat          7834881       6880538      1471S419         891       782     1673               47
4. Ra   tlawd RehabjTedp/Tupn    17496977          721939      24768916         1989       827     2816               29
S. Fuetlvod Copples Pltntn.         74566468      3171248      77737716         8476       360     8837                4
6. Oak Copp1ce Rehabltitat'n        7884705        8541439     87126144         8933       97      ,904               10
7. Soil Cons. Afforestation         62031730      15719417     77771146         7054      1787     8840               20
8. Conifer Plantations              35792659       2829971     3862260          4069       322     4390                7
9. Rangeland Rehab.; MPO            33412227       9099371     42511S98         3798      1034     4832               21
10. River Bank Ptlanting               254154             0       254154           29         0       29                0
11. Strength. Fiold service          2581114      97039784    122850928          2934    11031    1396S                79
......... ..........................__.. ___.................    ...................... . ...    ................................_ ._.... 
Str-Total                              356213194    159845530    516058724         40492    18170    58662                 31
C . Supporting Activities
1. Smaltl Scae Irrigatifn           85494840     54930712    140425552          9718     6244    15963                39
2. Rainfed Terraces                 10682488      8558525      19241014         1214       973     2187               44
3. ApicuLture                       26030084       6507555     32537639         2959       740     3699               20
4. Norticulture                      7264164       1286493      8550657          826       146      972               15
........................................    ...................................................... ....... ............. _.. _ . ._.
SutrTotal                              129471576      7128326    200754862          14717     8103    22820               36
o) .Applied Researh
1. Forestry Research                   22248        1557S3       1T7960            3        18       20               88
2. Range & Agric Research            5829758       103M6        6866795          663       118      711               15
____.....___ ...................................... ....... ............ _..............................   ........ ..... ........_
Sub-Total                                582006        119769        7044m            66       16       801               17
.......__...................... .....................    ......................__. ....   ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS                   512499101    263034084    77553185          5827    29900    88157                 34
Physical Contingenies                51011        2478557       75511868         5801    2m         8584               32
Price Contingencies                1525384821    600762992   2126147813          9736      3313    13049               25
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                  208891723      888275633   2977192866        794    35996   10970                   3
...........  ................ ,,....___..__..........................................
In Situ Conseration of GenCetic Diversity
tLOOO                             tJSS000
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_............__._..........    ..-.---- ...............    X Foreign
Local    Foreign       Total       Locat Foreign    Total         Exchange
.................................    ................................................ ...................................... __..... .._,_
A. Inventory/Survey
1. Irventory and Survey           3927954   12411953   16339907            44r     1411     1857             76
2. Geropla   M      _aagemt        23253      2493208    4818592           264      283       548            52
..__....__. .. _.......... _................    ...........................   ............
Sib-Totsl                              6          14905161   21158499          711      1694     2405             70
B . DOesignation of Oun               1512122           0    1512822          172         0      172              0
C . Mot. Ptan for In Situ Con         2085989    2207779    4293768           238      250       488             51
0 . Institutionat Strenghth.          1952360    7124277    9076638            22      809      1032             78
E . Data Managemet                    1982377    4775598    6757975           226      543       768             71
,_.......... .................    ..................................._ .... .......... 
total 8ASELINE COSTS                  13786886   29012815   42799701          1569     3296      4865             6
Plrnfcat Contfrdencies              137        2901282    4279970           1        330      487             68
Price Contfneencies                2042069   30163561   S058s929            120      201       321            63
Totat PROECTS COSTS                   35585943   62077657     97663600        1846     3827      563              67
u.u.nuu_ UiU mn



- 21 -
D. Cost Estimtes
3.18     Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and are estimated at
US$88.2 million excluding physical and price contingencies. Costs include a
PPF (Project Preparation Facility) of U8S750,000 which is being used for
preparation of microcatchment plans for the first year's implementation. It
must be emphasized that actual costs will depend on village preferences and
priorities; there will be an expansion of some treatments and a contraction of
others. Present costs are based on overall estimates of the most likely
balance between activities and the outcome of the preparation of the first six
microcatclument plans to be implemented in the first year. A breakdown of
project cost and price contingency assumptions and detailed project costs is
presented in Annex 8. Total project costs including physical and price
contingencies are estimated at US$109.8 million. Taxes and duties are
estimated at 14% of project costs and foreign exchange at 33% of project
costs. A separate project cost summary has been produced for the A-8itu Gene
Conservation Subproject (see also Table 3.1). Base costs are estimated at
US$4.8 million and costs including price and physical contingencies at US$5.7
million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at 67% of total costs. Total
project costs, including the GET subproject are estimated at US$115.5 million
including all contingencies.
E. FinancinA
3.19     The proposed IBRD loan of US$77 million would finance 70% of total
project costs and be made available to GOT on standard terms and conditions.
GOT would thus finance US$32.9 million equivalent including taxes and duties.
Assurances would be sought at negotiations that GOT would make adequate
budgetary provisions to sustain ths project (para 6.02(b)).  The GET grant
would finance US$5.1 million, or 89% of total project costs. GOT would in
addition to its contribution of US$0.6 million contribute existing staff,
research capacity and use of laboratories.



- 22 -
Table 3.23  FINANCING PLAN (US$  ILLION)
World Bank  Goverrment      GTotal
A.  Civil works                   34.2         23.1                     57.3
B.  Goods                         30.1          4.0                     34.1
C.  Apiculture kit                 2.4          2.4                      4.8
D. Training and technical
assistance                    6.0          0                        6.0
B. Project preparation             0.8          0                        0.8
F. Incremental
operating costs               3.4          --.4                      6.9
Subtotal                      77.0         32.8                    109.8
G. In-Situ Gene
Conservation
Subproject                                 0.6         5.1          5.7
TOTAL                    2u           33.4         5 . 1LA.
F. Procurement
3.20     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.  As is usual
with watershed rehabilitation projects in other countries, the project has
only a small element of procurement of goods through ICS, and a large element
of civil works by LCB or force account, and direct purchase or purchase
through local shopping of materials such as seed. It is also more difficult
than in many projects to quantify precisely the civil works to be undertaken
or materials to be procured, since these will be determined on an annual basis
as part of the participatory microcatchment planning process. A further
feature of this project is the very large number of small contracts to be
expected over the life of the project, for civil works and purchase of
materials and certain goods. Goods manufactured in Turkey and procured
through ICB may be granted a margin of preference equivalent to the amount of
the customs duties or to lS of the cost of the item, whichever is lower.



- 23 -
Table 3.3s  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement --------                Total Cost
Procurement Element          ICB         LCB         Other           (US$M)
Civil Works                              22.5         34.8/I          57.3
(13.4)       (20.8)          (34.2)
Plant and Equipment           8.3                      O.9/£           9.2
(7.3)                    (0.8)           (8.1)
Apiculture Kits                           4.8                          4.8
(2.4)                        (2.4)
Materials                                             19.9/'          19.9
(17.5)          (17.5)
Vehicles                      5.0                                      5.0
(4.4)                                    (4.4)
Technical Assistance                                   6.0/1           6.0
and Training                                         (6.0)           (6.0)
PPF                                                    0.8             0.8
(0.8)           (0.8)
Incremental Operating                                  6.9'            6.9
Costs /I                                             (3.4)           (3.4)
Sub-total               13i.        27.3         69.2           109.8
(11.7)      (15.9)       (49.3)          (77.0)/"
GEF Subproject                1.9                      3.7             5.7
(1.7)                    (3.4)           (5.1)
Grand Total             15.2        27.3         72.9           115.5
(13.4)      (15.9)       (52.7)          (82.1)
/a Bank financing would be limited to operations and maintenance of vehicles
procured under the project.
/l Force account.
/c Local shopping US$20.2 M; international shopping US$0.6 M.
/A IBRD guidelines for consultants.
/o GOT procedures.
/I£ Rounded.
Note: Details of procurement by disbursement category for the GET subproject
are indicated in Schedule B of the MOD.
Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by IBRD and GET.



- 24 -
3.21     Civil works may be broken down into two principal categories.  The
firat category consists of small-scale irrigation and land terracing totalling
US$22.5 million, which will be undertaken using LCB procedures, under the
supervision of the KHGM. (All figures refer to the Eastern Anatolia Watershed
Rehabilitation Project). It is estimated that over the project life there
will be a total of about S4 LCD contract3, each averaging US$400,000 in value.
Given the cost of these contracts, and their widely scattered nature in hilly
terrain, the contracts would be very unlikely to appeal to international
bidders, although they would be allowed to participate. Turkish LCB
procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency
in project execution, and procurement w*ould follow a format agreed under
earlier projects regarding use of LCB procedures.  The first contracts for
each province in the fist year would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
In cases where no qualified bidder applies for the contract, the KOXM would
undertake the work on force account.  It has ample experience with such work,
with qualified staff, and an accounting and recording system for expenditures
which is subject to auditing.
3.22     The second principal category for civil works comprises
reforestation activities which would be undertaken by force account (total
valve approximately US$34 million) by the provincial staff of the MO0. It is
estimated that these would be scattered over about 250 sites through the seven
-ear project period, on high, steeply sloping terrain in remote mountainous
ireas requiring specialized knowledge both for earth moving and for planting
activities. Attempts to use LCE have failed in the past. Local labor is
available and would be hired for the manual element of the work. OF has
ample experience with carrying out such work, and maintains monitorable
standards of output. It has a commercial accounting and expenditure recording
system which is subject to auditing. Finally, about US$300,000 would be for
nurseries; they would also be widely scattered through the project area, and
would be built through force account also.
3.23     Plant and equipment totals US$9.2 million.  About US$7.5 million
would be for the purchase of earth-moving equipment, tractors and related
implements and would be subject to ICB. Approximately 6 contracts would be
required for this. A simple GIS system (estimated value US$0.35 million)
would also be procured through ICB, as would about US$0.45 million for office
computers, printers, etc. The remainder of the plant and equipment (totalling
approximately US$0.8 million) comprises office equipment and laboratory
equipmnt. These items would be grouped as logical into contractss contracts
under US$100,000 would be procured through local shopping involving at least
three price quotations, and above US$100,000 through international shopping.
It is unlikely that any contract would be above US$150,000 for the above
items; however, any contracts above US$200,000 would be subject to ICB. Also
subject to ICB would be about US$5 million for the purchase of vehicles,
mostly 4 wheel drive twin cab pickups, but including trucks, caravans and
mobile repair vehicles. About 6 contracts would also be required for this.
US$4.8 million would be for beehives and related equipment (veils, smokers,
knives, swarms etc). The quantities required would be determined annually at
provincial level, and procured through LCB in about 6 contracts (they are not
appropriate for ICB procurement).



- 25 -
3.24     Materials comprise fertilizer, seed, seedlings and small quantities
of other materials (sacking, pesticides etc). Quantities to be procured would
be determined annually by province through the microcatchment planning
process. It must be emphasized that the figures given below are estimates
only. Fertilizer is produced locally in Turkey, and also imported. It is
sold through the state input supply agency and private outlets. Quantities to
be procured (principally DAP and NPK) would be determined annually at
provincial level (in 21 separate packages through the project period, with
each package averaging US$250,000 in value), and the fertilizer would be
purchased through local shopping.
3.25     Most seed vetch, sainfoin, alfalfa (about US$5.5 million through the
project period) would be procured through local shopping, the amounts
determined annually by the provincial implementation units. It is important
to be flexible regarding seed procurement, since timely availability is
essential, and the most reliable source of supply varies from year to ear.
Acorn seeds and grass and certain forage seed (US$3.3 million) would be
purchased directly from individuals who have collected it locally; this method
has the advantage of ensuring a supply which is adapted to local agro-
ecological conditions. Fruit and forest tree seedlings (total approximately
US$4.7 million, again determined annually through the project period) would
mostly be directly purchased from Agricultural and Forest State nurseries
whose prices are reasonable. Attempts to purchase seedlings from private
producers have so far failed to provide disease-free seedlings in reliable
quantities. The remainder of materials comprise sacking, bags, fencing and
office materials, to be purchased annually through local shopping.
3.26     Consultants to provide technical assistance (total US$2.7 million)
would be recruited according to IBRD guidelines for use of consultants, and
all contracts would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The TA would
comprise three main contracts, for TA in watershed rehabilitation (about
US$1.8 million), for TA in GIS (about US$300,000 including local training in
GIS application), and for management of overseas training (management contract
about US$300,OCO). Local consultants are expected to participate either alone
or in joint ventures in the majority of TA assignments. The remainder of TA
(US$300,000) would be for small contracts for TA to be recruited from time to
time for specialized studies or tasks. Training comprises international
training (US$1.9 million) and local training (US$1.4 million). The detailed
local annual training programs (see Annex 11) would be determineid with the
assistance of TA provided for under the main contract, and carried out by line
agency staff. All arrangements for training would be subject to IBRD
approval. Project items in the category incremental operating costs (US$6.9
million) i.e. fuel and repairs for vehicles and earth-moving equipment
purchased under the project, would be procured using the normal GOT
procedures.
3.27     GOT agreed at negotiations to follow the procurement procedures
outlined above in paras 3.16 to 3.24. All procurement would be handled by the
NOF on behalf of the other implementing agencies, except for the civil works
for dryland terracing and small scale irrigation, which would be handled by
GDRS. MOF has substantial experience in procurement, including the
recruitment of consultants and is expected to be able to handle the workload



- 26 -
in a timely fashion. The situation will be reviewed, however, and any need
for revision in the proposed arrangements will be assessed at the proposed
project implementation review at the end of year 2 (para 4.15).  All contracts
for goods and equipment above US$75,000 equivalent would be subject to prior
Bank review. Other contracts would be subject to selective ex-post review.
It is expected that these review arrangements cover about 80% of total
procurement.
G. Disbursements
3.28     The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over seven
years (Annex 8). The pattern of disbursements corresponds to the historical
profile of agricultural projects in Turkey. Project completion is expected by
March 31, 2000 and Loan closing by September 30, 2000. The proceeds of the
GEF grant would be disbursed over four years. Subproject completion is
expected by March 31, 1997 and grant closing by September 30, 1997.
3.29     IBRD would disburse loan funds at the following rates for these
items:,/
Cateoorv
Civil Works               60% of expenditures             (US$31.1  million)
Goods                     100% of foreign expenditures   (US$30.1 million)
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90%
of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
Apiculture Kits           50% of expenditures              (US$2.4 million)
Technical Assistance
and Training            100% of expenditures            (US$6.0 million)
Incremental Operating
Cost                    50% of expenditures             (US$3.4 milliL.n)
PPF                       100% of expenditures             (US$0.75 million)
Unallocated                                                (US$3.25 million)
3.30     Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures for
incremental operating costs, civil works undertaken by MOP, goods procured
through direct purchases or prudent shopping, and training locally and abroad.
V GET grant disbursement arrangements are discussed In the In-Situ Conservation
of Genetic Diversity Technical Annex.



- 27 -
Implementing agencies would retain supporting documentation for these items
for review by IBRD and external auditors. Up to US$3 million of retroactive
financing would be possible, for expenditures incurred after November 1, 1992,
provided the appropriate procurement procedures are followed.
3.31     To facilitate project implementation GOT would establish a Special
Account with the Central Bank and would initially deposit US$4 M of loan
funds. Withdrawal of funds would be or the basis of SOEs as discussed in para
3.22. This account would be opened in accordance with arrangements for
existing Bank projects, and would be used for most disbursements except those
in excess of US$1 million (para 6.02 (d)).
B. Accounts and Audits
3.32     The Project Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU) of the Directorate
of Reforestation and Bro3ion Control of the Ministry of Forestry would prepare
reports on expenditures under the project on completion of each semiannual
period, i.e. by December 31 and June 30 of each year. Separate accounts would
be maintained for the In-gJ& gene conservation subproject by the General
Directorate for Agricultural Research (TAGEN) and would also be produced
semiannually. In addition, an annual audit would be carried out by the
Treasury inspectors (with knowledge of English), including specific reference
to, and comments on, SOEs and supporting documents and disbursements from the
special account, and submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained from GOT at neaotiations that
implementing agencies would follow these auditing practices (para 6.02 (g)).
I. Proiect Supervision
3.33     Two Bank supervision missions per year during seven years of project
implementation would be required. A "project launch" mission would be fielded
shortly after Board approval and an implementation review would be held within
two years of effectiveness (see also para 4.15). Flexibility in
implementation would be stressed to adjust to changing circumstances and
permit effective responses to participatory planning. During supervision the
Bank would agree with the authorities on lessons learnt from that experience,
on future modifications, and on the form and content of the next MC plans to
be implemented. A key element in supervision missions would be staff
continuity; missions would be expected to include natural resource management
expertise and, periodically, participatory range management, irrigation and
crops/soils expertise. Turkish expertise on missions will be important. The
implementation review would include a monitoring/evaluation specialist. Each
mission would spend adequate time in the project area to gain a realistic view
of field problems and achievements. Supervision would require about 20 staff
weeks per year in the first two years, 25 in the third and 16 per year in the
fourth and fifth, decreasing to 10 per year in the last two years.
Approximately 10 additional staff weeks per year would be required for
supervision of the GET In-SJit Gene Conservation Subproject.



- 28 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND  ANAflNU
A.  nstItuti=1nal kU*ngmnts
4.01     The project uses the strength of existing institutions.  The
Ministry of Forestry would be responsible for coordinating project
implementation.
Provincial Level
4.02     The Assistant Provincial Directors for Forestry (MOF), for Extension
(Provincial Agricultural Directorate (PDA)) and for Irrigation and Soil
Conservation (KHGH) would form a team (Provincial Project Implementation unit)
for each province, take major responsibility for project implementation and
assign staff for that purpose. The team would be responsible for the
identification of priority MCs, coordination of fieldwork, joint interactive
planning of selected treatment options in the light of experience and the
results of adaptive research. The Assistant Provincial Director of Forestry
would be assigned the task of liaison with the PCSU and with colleagues in the
other departments. One of the staff in his office would be trained and take
the lead in MC planning. A capacity to malntain and operate a data base for
future planning would also be established in his office and training provided
to the responsible officer. The Provincial Directorates of Forestry would
also have overall responsibility for selection of microcatchments, for
coordination of work, and for determination of the content of the
microcatchment plans. One of the officers servlg with each Assistant
Director of Extension (PDA) would be trained to assume the responsibility for
agricultural adaptive research and to coordinate with the agricultural
research institutes at Diyarbakir and Ersurum. A second would be nominated as
a microcatchment er.ineer, with fulltime responsibility for the agricultural
elements of the project. One of the officers from Elazig Forest Research
Institute would be trained to assume responsibility for project related forest
applied research in the provinces. The Provincial directors of the
departments would constitute a Steering Committee which would be chaired by
the Provincial Forestry Director.
Microcatchment Level
4.03     Provincial implementation units would appoint MC planning teams.
The composition of the MC planning group would vary according to the
characteristics of the particular microcatchment. It would include the
relevant county level agricultural and forestry staff, the Village Group
Technician (VGT) of the agricultural extension service, and the provincial
staff assigned to the project. The MC planning team in each province would be
responsible for the initial interaction with the MC villages and the resulting
indicative plan, and for the continuous contacts which are necessary to
monitor progress in implementation; the group would define annual work
programs and budget requirements. There are sufficient forest and extension
staff at the local level but no staff are expected to be permanently located
in the MCs. The PDAS have undertaken to allocate one agricultural engineer
with specific responsibllity for each microcatchment. The limited experience



- 29 -
of range improvement and management would be addressed through technical
assistance and intensive training.
Central Level
4.04     The PCSU within the Planning Department of the Directorate of
Afforestation and Erosion Control in Ankara would have the main responsibility
to assist the provincial authorities to build up a capacity for coordinated
watershed development, to review and approve indicative MC plans, to monitor
progress, to serve as secretariat to the National Steering Committee (see
below) and to provide certain logistical services such as arrangement of
training and study tours, procurement of goods and technical assistance, and
aggregation of accounts, reports and withdrawal applications. The unit would
comprise a team of full-time, seconded specialists and would work closely with
the responsible officers within General Directorates of Rural Services and of
Production and Development of MARA. Five senior staff have been nominated: a
watershed management specialist, an assistant watershed management specialist
with special responsibility for coordinating training and technical
assistance, a procurement specialist, a MIS/monitoring and evaluation
specialist with knowledge of computers, and an accountant in charge of
accounts and withdrawal applications. MARA's General Directorate of Rural
Services (KH6M) and General Directorate of Production and Development (TUGEM)
would also each nominate one staff member with responsibility for the project.
All of the staff were nominated before negotiations, and GOT has aareed to the
orcanizational arranoements outlined in these Paragraphs (para 6.02(a)).  An
Organization Chart is provided in Annex 6. Technical assistance would be
employed to support GOT with project planning and field services as described
in para 3.10 and Annex 11.
4.05     The MOP would be guided by a six member National Steering Committee
chaired by the Planning and Coordination Department of the MOP and consisting
of representatives of the Directorates for Afforestation and Erosion Control
(AGM), for Forestry and for Village Development (ORROY) of the Ministry of
Forestry; of TUGEM and KBGM of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs;
and of the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations within the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade.
4.06     Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) would be encouraged to
participate in project implementation. Because several NGOs have considerable
experience with community development, they could help in at least four ways:
(i) by extending informal advice to staff from the line agencies upon request;
(ii) by conducting training courses for line agency staff, under contract, to
teach methods of participatory assessment of village preferences; (iii) by
designing and implementing, under contract, systems for monitoring and
evaluation of baseline status and project progress; and (iv) by participating
in the development of village income-generating businesses where appropriate.
No NGOs are currently active in the project area, and under present
arrangements villagers work directly with line agencies; there are no funds
specifically allocated for NGO assistance in the current project budget;
however, project staff have agreed to explore possible NGO activities during
implementation. The Swiss-funded Community Forestry Pilot Project within the
MOF works with the Turkish Development Foundation (TKV): TKV and the Community



- 30 -
Forestry Project work jointly in some villages, and in others TKV is engaged
on contract to carry out Rapid Rural Appraisals and similar tasks. NGO
involvement would be a subject of the Project Implementation Review, and in
the light experience gained through the Swiss Community Forestry Project, the
possibilities of contracting with an NGO for certain activities would be
reexamined.
4.07     The organizational arrangements for the GET In-Si_J  Gene
Conservation subproject are summarized below. The principal implementing
agencies would be the Research and Environment Department within the Research,
Planning and Coordination Board (APKKB) of MOF, and the Breeding and Agronomy
Research Department within the General Directorate of Agricultural Research
(TAGEM) of MARA. These agencies would coordinate the field work (survey,
inventory, selection and management of gene management zones) of the relevant
forestry and agriculture research institutes based in Izmir, Menemen, Ankara
and Diyarbakir. The Ministry of Environment (Department of Protection of
Nature, Directorate of Protection of Environment) would be responsible for
production of extension material, publicity and coordination of the national
plan for .n-_itu gene conservation. A project implementation committee and a
steering committee are being established to coordinate activities between
agencies. Overall responsibility would be with TAGEM.
B. Microcatcbment Planninf
4.08     Microcatchment planning is the key element to interaction with the
local population and coordination of departmental efforts (Annex 4). The
building blocks of the NC-plan are the village plans. Where necessary the MC
boundaries would be adjusted to avoid dividing a village between two MCs.
After the selection of the MC, which includes confirmation of local interest,
the first step in the planning process entails the marshalling of existing
information (data and maps). Turkey is fortunate in having a very good basis
for such planning but on some points it may be necessary to verify, update and
or supplement available information through further surveying.
4.09     Active village participation is an innovative and essential feature
of this project. Using a "farmer centered - problem census, problem solving"
(FC-PCPS) approach, the MC planning process involves the following steps: (i)
village discussion of problems and constraints and presentation of the menu of
treatments funded under the project, including cost sharing arrangements
(Annex 5); (ii) village discussion of solutions and priorities (selections
from the menu); (iii) preparation of draft village plans; (iv) village
discussion of draft plans; and (v) finalization of an indicative MC plan
aggregating the village plans. The FC-PCPS process implies active village
participation involvement not only in approval but also in the formulation and
implementation of these plans. It also entails a joint effort by the
concerned departments to allow an integrated view of the role of forest, range
and farm lands in meeting village needs of fodder and wood, as well as income
and employment, within realistic cost constraints. The FC-PCPS process is
expected to ensure that the interventions respond to the perceived local needs
and priorities and that a genuine commitment to and responsibility for the
success of the project is generated. The scope for organizing improved
village management of rangelands and participation in the protection and



- 31 -
management of forest lands would be key topics for discussion. Training of
villagers in MC planning and in different treatment options would be provided
and study tours arranged to adjacent areas where alternative treatments or
organizational arrangements have been tried.
4.10     The outcome of this interaction would be agreements on an
"Indicative MC Plan" summarizing and aggregating the analysis of available
data, the results of the FC-PCPS process, the type, volume and phasing of
different treatments selected from the menu and the extent of cost and benefit
sharing for each investment (Annex S). The budget for each microcatchment
plan will obviously vary according to population and site characteristics, but
is expected to average US$1.5 million. Plans would be reviewed by the
provincial steering committee and submitted through the PCSU to the National
Steering Committee. After approval detailed implementation plans would be
agreed with the participating community members and groups and commitments
would be recorded in writing. The first six microcatchment plans, sufficient
for the first year's project implementation, have been prepared (Annex 14) and
an outline implementation plan for 1993 has also been prepared (Annex 15). At
necotiations. the Government agreed to review annually and approve with the
World Bank the form and content of the microcatchment plans to be implemented
the following aeason (para 6.02 (f)).
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) would be undertaken using existing
resources, augmented by some project funds. Project finance would cover
purchase of equipment, contracting external support and studies. The proposed
M&E system is designed to reflect staffing and financial constraints and
ensure close consultation between provincial and central project management.
A primary objective would be to generate management information to guide
project implementation and ongoing planning, and to provide the basis for an
accurate evaluation of progress during implementation (see Annex 7 and
attached progress chart).
4.12     Monitorino oroiect imolementation.  A calendar of key events would
be maintained to document issues arising and actions of central and regional
management. Topics would include: progress on institution building and
strengthening, staff (including performance of TA) training, procurement,
regional planning and objectives, budget preparation and disbursement,
microcatchment planning and implementation, cost and expenditure monitoring
and cost sharing activities. A Central Unit has been established in the MOF
to coordinate the M&E activities and this unit would discuss requirements with
provincial management. Information would be collated at provincial level, to
be used primarily as a management tool, and submitted to the Central Unit,
quarterly, following an agreed format. The submissions would be consolidated
into an annual report which would also include a short section on the
implications of findings for on going policy and planning. Government aoreed
at necotiations to review annually the microcatchment planning guidelines, and
to adapt them as appropriate in the light of experience (para 6.02 (f)).
4.13     Treatment adootion rates and measurement of project benefits.
Certain treatments benefit all villagers, certain others groups of villagers,



- 32 -
and others individuals. Basic technical and socioeconomic data against which
project impact would be measured would be collected concerning the community
in the microcatchment. Existing data on selected catchments which do not
ultimately benefit from the project would also be collected, for purposes of
comparison. An in-depth study of the community in selected microcatchments
would be commissioned to a university or consultants, as an aid to project
planners. Adoption rates and constraints would be measured at community and
individual level and would include impact on forest and rangeland vegetative
cover, species composition, improved yields and cash benefits, shifts towards
stall feeding, improved land use and range management. A more detailed impact
study would also be commissioned, as a guide to management. Analysis of
results of adaptive research would be undertaken by the regional research
institutions at Elazig (forestry), Diyarbakir (agriculture) and Sanliurfa
(ODRS). These would also guide any modifications to the treatment menu.
4.14     Organization.  The PCSU in the MOP would take responsibility for
coordinating the M&E activities in each Province to ensure that compatible
information is collected. The PCSU would also be responsible for contracting
technical assistance and institutions to implement studies. Project
management at provincial level would be responsible for the collection and
compilation of data in the microcatchments. Staff in the Ministry of
Agriculture provincial Projects and Statistics sections would play a key role
in compiling data for the monitoring and evaluation exercise.
4.15     An Implementation Review, managed by the PCSU, would be carried out
within two years from the date of project effectiveness (i.e. by July 31,
1995). The review would focus on: the experieace with the participatory
approach to MC planning; the institutional framework; initial results of the
applied research program; the potential for more widespread introduction of
low coat and cost sharing treatments; the responsiveness and potential for
amendment to the treatment menu to reflect the stated needs at village level;
institutional, financial and socioeconomic project constraints; the scope for
NGO involvement and for enlarging the project in terms of provinces or
microcatchments. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Ministry
of Forestry would organize the Review with full participation of MARA and that
recommendations would be communicated to the Bank and carried out as agreed
with the Bank (para 6.02(e)).
V.  PRG  1! BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production and Marketing
5.01     As mentioned in para 3.04, the scope and type of interventions and
hence incremental annual production at the end of the project period cannot be
determined with any accuracy; the balance between interventions will be
determined annually through the microcatchment planning exercise.
Difficulties in making estimates are compounded by widely varying
agroecological conditions between microcatchments. Nevertheless, an estimate
of likely incremental production was made in order to calculate benefits. It
must be emphasized, however, that the figures given below are highly tentative



- 33 -
,mee also paras 5.02 and 5.13). On current assumptions, production increases
are estimated as followas
(a)   57,000 ha of replanted or rehabilitated forest on average producing
annually:  first 10 yrs 50,000 i/year; next 5 yrs 38,000 m3; next 5
yrs 99,000 i3; years 20-30 155,000 m3; and 210,000 m%/year
thereafter;
(b)   117,000 tons (dry matter) of livestock fodder;
(c)   42,000 tons fruit (apricot, almonds, grapes, mixed fruit);
(d)   650,000 kg honey;
(e)   36,000 tons wheat;
(f) 2,700 cows benefiting from Al or improved bulls.
5.02     Secondary benefits of the rehabilitated or newly established forest
areas and range areas (erosion control, water retention etc.) are not directly
quantified in the ERR. They would manifest themselves in the form of improved
agricultural output in the lower catchment areas, and in decreased reservoir
sedimentation downstream of the project area.
5 03     Extraction and marketing systems for timber vary. MOP frequotltly
operates a system whereby the village adjoining the forest may extract a
certain amount of wood; the NO? may also license commercial timber cutters and
the product then is marketed either locally or to fuel merchants from the
urban centers   To achieve harmonious development with the participation of
the villagers, the project would encourage self policing. The wood produced
is largely firewood but fencing poles and commercial timber are produced from
the conifers. Commercial timber is expected to achieve a price equivalent to
US$100/m3 whilst other timber products, mainly fuelwood, would achieve US$30-
50/m3.
5.04     The incremental output of fodder from the project would lead to
increased production of meat and dairy products. Discussion at village level
indicates that there is, at present, little price differentiation between
natural fodders despite considerable variation in their nutritional (protein)
value. This is expected to change as the 'new' crops, sainfoin, vetch and
alfalfa, become more widespread and their value is recognized. For the
economic analysis, fodder is valued at a constant US$70 per ton of dry matter,
the current market price, a realistic basis for future prices where the demand
for animal protein in the diet would be expected to increase.
5.05     At present the rural marketing of livestock and dairy products
depends largely on traditional outlets which do not provide for sophisticated
means of transport and cold storage. Nevertheless, processing as yoghurt or
cheese prolongs the shelf life of dairy products and sales of livestock 'on
the hoof', mean that existing outlets, private and cooperative, would readily
cope with increased production resulting from the project. Prices would not
be adversely affected.



- 34 -
5.06     The projected annual incremental output of fruit (42,000 tons) is a
project benefit. It is, however, difficult to predict with any certainty the
expected composition of this output. Over half (55%) is expected to be fresh
apricots valued conservatively at US$500 per ton. Almonds are valued at
US$1,200 per ton; other fruit production has been valued at US$500 and grapes
at US$250 per ton, net of labor hired for harvesting. The increase in dried
apricot production would contribute less than 5% of total regional production,
much of which is currently exported. Incremental production due to the
project would not significantly affect local or world prices and would be
readily assimilated into the local marketing and processing systems.
5.07     The local domestic market would readily absorb the incremental
production of wheat. The price (US$110) in the economic analysis is the
import parity price as reported by the Grain Market Organization TMO. This
price allows for local transport (US$11), handling (US$2) and insurance (US$1)
per ton for imports through the port of Iskenderum. This price is
approximately 60% of the intervention price that has been paid by TMO to
farmers in the region over the last two years.
5.08     The incremental 650 tons of honey produced annually will find a
ready national market, since imports are currently required to satisfy local
demand. Existing producers are skilled in the extraction of honey and wax
but, when sold on the comb, honey commands a premium. The price used for the
economic analysis is US$4.9 per kilogram of honey on the comb which includes
the value of the wax.
5.09     The In-Situ Gene Conservation subproject would protect the
biodiversity in-situ of globally significant herbaceous and woody species. It
has the potential for significant global benefit through protection of disease
and climate resistant strains of key crops. It would also build up the
institutional capacity for comprehensive genetic resource management,
integrating in-situ and ex-situ programs.
B. Farm Income and Cost Sharing
5.10     Ignoring the considerable benefits which would accrue in the longer
term from forestry rehabilitation, the net annual incremental income per
village in the microcatchment is estimated at US$70,000 from fodder, cereal
and horticultural crop production increases. Estimated average annual
incremental income would be US$S25 equivalent per family in each of the
participating villages in the microcatchment. Analysis of the expected
pattern of distribution of this income would be speculative only but it seems
likely that most groups would gain. Overall, the project would increase
incomes in a seriously impoverished region of Turkey.
5.11     Cost sharing arrangements for watershed rehabilitation and income
generating activities are shown in Annex 5. The cost of demonstrations, pilot
work and adaptive research would be fully borne by Government. Forest lands
belong to Government and Government would be fully responsible for both
establishment and O&M costs but would also derive a substantial share of the
benefits from such investments. The project would provide for increased
village involvement in the management and protection of forest lands against a



- 35 -
larger share of the benefits. Range lands are also Government land but
villages have clearly recognized usufructuary rights. For both range and
cultivated land present cost sharing arrangements and the fact that part of
the benefits occur outside the intervention area in the form of reduced runoff
and sediment load result in Government shouldering the establishment
(investment) cost of watershed rehabilitation treatments. Under the project,
the individual and community share of the rehabilitation efforts would include
some labor for establishment but would be mainly contributed in the form of
operation and maintenance of the facilities and improvements created. In the
case of income generating activities, the government and beneficiaries would
share the investment cost equally while the beneficiary would be responsible
for operation and maintenance.
C. Economic Analysis and Risks
5.12     In a project of this nature, estimated economic rates of return are
best viewed as rough orders of magnitude. Lack of precision reflects in part
the difficulty in predicting the extent and scope of ameliorative
interventions. Communities in the microcatchments would be consulted and
would themselves choose from the "menu" of rehabilitation options; the choices
available may also evolve during the project period. The economic rate of
return (ERR) is estimated at 17% (see Annex 9) based on the most likely mix of
treatments. Each microcatchment would have a mix of treatments yielding
short-term and long-term benefits. Calculation of separate ERRs for each
activity was not considered useful since benefits from particular
interventions are frequently complementary to other interventions.
5.13     The analysis is considered conservative since it does not take into
account other benefits due to reduced runoff or resource conservation, e.g.
the likely increase in the economic life of the dams in the project area
through reduced sedimentation. Furthermore and perhaps more importantly, the
analysis does not take into account likely falls in productivity due to
declining soil fertility in the "without" project situation. Finally, costs
might well decrease rather than increase as lower cost solutions are adopted
more widely.
5.14     An analysis of switching values indicates that total benefits would
have to decrease by 41% or costs would have to increase by 68% before the rate
of return is unacceptable, given an opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
5.15     A number of sensitivity tests were carried out to assess the
"robustness" of the project to various risks. The table illustrates that the
rate of return is not overly sensitive to changes in likely costs or benefits,
nor is it seriously affected by delays. Only when costs are up by 20% and
beaefits are lagged by one or two years, does the ERR drop significantly, to
13% and 12% respectively.



- 36 -
Benefits                Costs               gm t
Central case            Central case          17
Constant                Up 20%                15
Up 20%                  Constant              20
Lagged 1 year           Constant              1S
Lagged 1 year           Up 20%                13
Lagged 2 years          Up 20%                12
Lagged 1 year           Down 10%              17
Risks
5S16     The project is not without technical and institutional risks.  Like
all watershed rehabilitation efforts, it requires the integration of
conservation and development, coordination of interventions in crop, livestock
and forestry production and revisions in the way land is managed. It involves
three institutions and requires a mode of operation where village perceptions
of problems and priorities constitute the starting point. Some of the risk
elements and how they have been addressed are discussed below:
(a)   The intervention technologies, while used successfully elsewhere,
have not always been proven in the project area. Where this is the
case, treatments are reduced to pilot scale or tested in adaptive
research trials. The interventions for improved range management
are perhaps the most "risky"; they require full participation by
villagers, and agricultural extension agents do not have much
experience working in high range. The problem has been addressed by
(i) provision of technical assistance and training; (ii) focussing
on low cost participatory approaches to range managemnt initially;
and (iii) allowing for a review of progress within two years and
modifying the approach if necessary, possibly contracting with an
NGO with experience in community organization at that time;
(b)   The provincial line agencies have little experience of working
together. Nicrocatchment treatments are expected to reinforce each
other and if some are not executed or are unduly delayed, this may
jeopardize other work and the total effort. The MC planning and
budgeting process provides the framework for the involvement of
different line agencies. Close coordination of the work has been
promoted by substantial involvement by all agencies in project
preparation and the planning of six microcatchments for the first
year's program. The record during preparation is encouraging. The
project organization provides for liaison comm4ttees at the national
and the provincial levels, and an implementing team drawn from
different agencies in each of the provinces. These teams are
already functioning. This arrangement will be monitored
continuously if necessary.



- 37 -
(C)   The difficult working conditions in the project area, in combination
with budgetary constraints, have resulted in low staff morale and
frequent rotations. The provision of adequate resources and a
meaningful work program under the project will improve the
situation. This will be further reinforced by efforts to publicize
the project as a major new initiative addressed at the problem of
resource degradation in Turkey. The project may thus be seen to
spearhead a future national program and provide valuable experiences
and career prospects; and
(d)   Experience 'rom other projects also points to implementation
difficulties caused by inadequate budget allocations. This has been
countered by careful Government review of resources that cani be made
available for this project, and by adequate Bank financing.
5.17     The GET Il-Situ Gene Conservation subproject is not subject to
economic analysis. It would be of long-term, possibly very significant,
benefit to the global community by conserving In-&ttu the genetic diversity of
crops and forest species whose qualities may provide essential elements to
high-yielding varieties.
5.18     In summary, reasonable efforts have been made to mitigate these
risks. Given the seriousness of problems being addressed and the potential
for positive spinoffs which might be applied elsewhere, the assumption of the
risks is warranted.
D. Environmental Imuact
5.19     The environmental impact of the project would be substantially
positive and the project has been given a *C" classification. Restoration of
sustainable natural resources is a principle objective. It will restore
natural vegetative cover and reduce runoff and soil loss. The reforestation
components will focus on indigenous species, in particular the native oak.
The GRF iji-situ gene conservation subproject will promote preservation of wild
relatives of forest and crop species in their natural habitats, and strains
with drought and disease resistant qualities.
5.20     Considerations relating to possible environmental side effects
includes
(a)   In cultivated land; the aim of treatments would be: (i) improving
soil fertility by replacing fallow with forage legumes and pulses;
(ii) changing use of marginal lands; and (iii) increasing
productivity through aoil and moisture conservation, agronomic
practices and minor irrigation. Some increased use of fertilizers
may be expected but is most unlikely to reach wasteful or
environmentally damaging levels. Some terracing would be undertaken
to increaee moisture retention but with careful design no negative
impact is expected.
(b)   Range and forest lands; the treatment objectives are: (i) enhanced
vegetative coverage for in situ soil and moisture conservation; (i)



- 38 -
improved management; and (iii) increased productivity. Chemical
fertilizers would be used in the vegetative rehabilitation efforts
but application would be mainly of a one shot nature and quantities
would be small and rapidly absorbed. The forest rehabilitation
would mainly focus on coppicing of rootstocks within the natural oak
forest and seeding of acorns in more denuded areas. Some terracing
in selected areas would be necessary to increase moisture retention
but efforts to minimize earth movement and the possible negative
effects would be minimized.
E. Impact on Women
5.21     Women traditionally are responsible for livestock, domestic chores
(including fetching water and fuelwood) and child care but now, in the absence
of many of the men, also play a major role in crop cultivation. The
afforestation and range improvement programs would in the long term reduce the
burden on women by providing larger quantities of fuel and fodder closer at
hand. Increased reliance on stall fed dairy production and reduced
participation in seasonal migration to tend dairy sheep and goats at highland
pastures is a positive development. The extent to which project activities
make it possible to earn a living locally and thus diminish male migration to
the cities would have a positive effect on the quality of family life and
relieve some of the drudgery of female labor. The participatory planning
approach has been designed to give the women an important role in the
selection of treatments.
5.22     Tha project should directly benefit women in the villages within a
framework wherebyt (i) every effort is made to reduce the time and labor
which women are forced to expend (and waste) on inefficient household and
agriculture tasks; and (ii) women are given a valid role through the
participatory planning process in selection of treatments, which will reliably
reflect what they themselves feel they would be able to handle. The project
will not design and implement activities specifically for women at this would
further complicate project implementation, and might impose on gender
relationships which are culturally sensitive. The nature of the involvement
of the women depends on the attitudes prevailing in each village. Experience
to date indicates that in some, joint sessions are held; in others, separate
sessions are held for women. In some cases, women lead the discussions. All
provincial staff will receive training on involvement of women in the FC-PCPS
process. Women agricultural extension agents have participated in the FC-PCPS
sessions during preparation, and will continue to participate under project
implementation.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     GOT met the principal condition of negotiations agreed after
appraisal, preparation of slx microcatcbment plans, sufficient for the first
year's project implementatLon. Their form and content was reviewed and found
satisfactory during a Bank post-appraisal mission in November 1992
(para 4.04).



- 39 -
6.02     At negotiations GOT:
(a)   agreed on the arrangements for project organization and management,
and provided evidence that the necessary staff had been nominated
(the National Steering Committee, PCSU and provincial project
implementation units have already been established) (paras 4.02 to
4.04);
(b)   provided evidence that sufficient budget allocations to meet GOT
contribution to the project have been made in the FY93 budget, and
agreed annually to make adequate budgetary provisions to implement
the project (para 3.19);
(c)   agreed on the procurement arrangements outlined in paras 3.18 to
3.26;
(d)   agreed to open a Special Account as outlined in para 3.311
(e)   agreed to arrange an Implementation Review by July 31, 1995 as
outlined in para 4.15l
(f)   agreed to review annually and agree with the World Bank the form and
content of the microcatchment plans to be implemented the following
season (para 4.10) and adapt the microcatchment planning guidelines
in the light of experience gained in project implementation and
analyzed through the monitoring proceas (para 4.12);
(g)   agreed to follow the reporting, accounting and auditing procedures
outlined in para 3.32; and
(h)   agreed to sign the technical assistance contract outlined in
para 3.13 by October 1, 1993.
6.03     With the above agreements and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$77 million equivalent at the standard variable
rate, for a period of 17 years, including five years of grace. The Borrower
would be the Government of Turkey.



- 40 -
Page 1 of 11
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKE-
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
BACKGROUND
CROP PRODUCTION CHARACTERISTICS
1.         Land Tenure and Distribution.  The most common type of tenure in the
project area is small landownership. Landholdings are highly fragmented, with
average farm size in the area at about 3 ha divided in some 6 parcels. The
majority of the farms are owner operated.
2.         Land  Use  and  Production  Systems.    Data  provided  by  the  1991
Agricultural Census indicate that although there are significant differences
among the project provinces, the principal land use is rangeland. It is followed
by agricultural use (Table la and lb).   In the last decade, fallow has been
significantly reduced in the project provinces. Currently, in the provinces of
Adiyaman, Elazig and Malatya, 10, 30X and 331 of field crop areas are left for
fallow, respectively. The largest area allocated for orchards and perennial
crops is in Malatya. Vegetable production is the most common in Adiyaman.
Table la
Current land use in the project provinces. 1991
Mlyim        Zlasla              t Fblatya         Total
I of                Z of                 X of
(ha)     total     (ha)      total      (ha)       total
area               area                  area
Field crop area            188,187      30.6   108,348      13.7     139,520     13.3    436,055
Fallow                      21,445       3.5    48,748       5.9      70,229      6.7    138,422
Orchards + pereidal crops   32,911       5.3    18,818       2.4      61,553      5.9    113,282
Vesetables                  10,172       1.7     5,382       0.7       5,842      0.6      21,397
Permanent meadow + rangeland  78,512    12.8   360,315      45.5     289,016     27.5    727,843
Unused land C')              9,108       1.5    48,146       6.0      61,024      5.8    118,278
Von-cropland C")            130,753     21.3    77,506       9.8     262,089     25.0    470,348
Forestland (forest + bushland)   142,919  23.3   127,383    18.0     159,504     15.2    429,806
TOTAL ARIA                 814,008     100.0   792,646     100.0   1,048,775    100.0 2,455,431
()  rb frsmbW  . be Ih min
S    am $=MP our.    E
Saw, i - I992 MWmimy tAma. d 1991 Apkdmd Cm=



- 41 -
ANlEX 1.A
Page 2 of 11
Table lb
Batimted land use iu total projoct area (3 provinces. 54 MEs) C")
Land Use             Adiyaman      1azi        Falatya        Total
(18 Has)    (18 WCs)     (18 KCs)      (54 MCs)
Field crops                      28,620       17,100       23,580        69,300
Fallow                            5,400        7,380       11,880        24,660
Orchards + perennial crops        8,370        2,970       10,440        21,780
Vegetable                         2,610          900        9,900        13,410
Permanent meadow + range         19,890       56,970       48,870       125,730
Unused land (M)                   2,340        7,650       10,350        20,340
Non-cropland (**)                33,120       12,240       44,370        89,730
Forest + bushland                36,270       20,160       27,000        83,430
jTAL                            136,620       125,370      186,390     448,380--
(M)  sn&b fS .eiag*mt um. bi IUR _ed do fo m    m  axdr  emipi. _bi sbuip 4_ )
(***) d  i   ofN igl oMam d)A a   iind n
"Note:    hw4, find mia,dnfl I 1 54 MW.WWaakm, Ia   3dun banid at an nmbay  f hk  in 54 pmugiM admatdnwimn in tto p am    _
3.        Rainfed agriculture is the dominant form of farming. According to 1991
statistics, around 80% of the total field crop area is rainfed (dryland) in the
project provinces.   Under these conditions,  crop rotation depends on the
ecological characteristics of the area as well as the socio-economic conditions
of the farmers. Usually wheat and barley are rotated with lentil or chickpea or
fallow. In some NCs continuous wheat and barley production is also practiced.
In the project area, 73% of the dryland field crop area is allocated to small
grains (wheat and barley), 11% to food legumes (lentil and chickpea), 16% to
other crops (mainly tobacco in Adiyaman, melon, bitter vetch, common vetch etc.).
Although livestock production is important, farming systems rarely include fodder
production.
4.        Under rainfed conditions, crop management practices and input use are
generally poor, particularly on mid-slopes and highland plateaux. Under existing
rotation systems seedbed preparation, seeding time, crop varieties and fertilizer
application are the major components of the crop management package that need
special attention and improvement. Average yields of wheat, barley, chickpea and
lentil are 2.0, 2.0, 1.1 and 1.0 t/ha in Adiyaman, 1.5, 1.8, 0.7 and 0.7 t/ha in
Elazig and 1.4, 1.5, 0.9 and 0.8 t/ha in Malatya, respectively. In MCs, the
yields are much below these provincial averages.
5.        Irrigated agriculture is carried out to a limited extent only.
According to 1991 statistics irrigated areas as a percent of total field crop are
12.7%, 26.3% and 26.8% in Adiyaman, Elazig and Malatya, respectively. In some
areas of the MCs where perennial streams and springs exist small scale irrigation
is possible. In the lowlands, wheat and barley are rotated with sugarbeet, bean,
sunflower, cotton and maize. Other irrigated crops are orchards particularly



- 42 -                            ANNEX 1.
Page 3 of 11
apricots, vegetables, and alfalfa. In addition, much lower lying irrigated land
is also used for poplar or willow production.   In MCs, the most important
irrigated crops are alfalfa, fruit trees, some vegetables, beans and maize.
6.        Due to inefficient crop management techniques, the full potential of
irrigated agriculture has not been realized. Irrigated wheat, bean and sugarbeet
yields are around 2.5 and 4.0 t/ha in Adiyaman, Elazig and Malatya. There is a
strong need for effective extension to improve the irrigation techniques and
agronomic practices.
7.        InRut sources and availability.  Certified cereal and forage seeds are
provided by General Directorate of Agricultural  Enterprises  (TIGEM).   In
mountainous areas, farmers produce their own seed from local varieties but
without seed treatment.  Seeds for other crops are usually provided from the
local markets.   In recent years, private companies have started to market
imported vegetable seeds but only on a small scale. Fruit seedlings are provided
by various agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and by the local market.
However, seedlings in the local market are not disease free and species and
varieties are not labeled.
8.        Commercial fertilizers are marketed by the State Agricultural Supply
Office (TZDK), Agricultural Sales Cooperatives (TKK) and private companies.
Since manure is considered as a valuable fuel source, its use as fertilizer is
limited. However, in Adiyaman, it is used for pistachio trees.
9.        Pesticide application is uncommon amongst the MC farmers except for
apricot and vineyard production.   Chemicals are provided from TDZK, TKK and
private commercial companies.
10.       In MCs where the topography is very rough, horse and oxen are widely
use instead of tractors. Farm machinery is limited to moldboard ploughs, field
cultivators and disc-harrows. Seed drills are very rare. The topography of the
MC and the field sizes do not permit the use of harvesting machines. In some
areas, where fields are not stony and rocky, grass-mower type of implements,
generally scythes and sickle are used to harvesting wheat and barley. Therefore,
harvesting costs are very high.
11.       For livestock production concentrated feed is provided principally from
state-owned feed factories. However, subsistence farmers of MCs can not afford
to buy concentrates in sufficient quantities. Razmol is available at the local
flour mills and straw is produced by the households or purchased from the local
market.
12.       Constraints.   There are climatic, edaphic (soil), topographic and
socio-economic constraints that limit the production in the project area. In
Elazig and Malatya uneven distribution of limited precipitation (av. 404 mm)
within the year and among the years, cold winters usually without snow cover,
freezing soil temperatures, and short growing seasons are the major limiting
factors in production. In Adiyaman, the long and severe drought period which
starts in June and continues through October presents serious limitations for
production. Other factors responsible for low productivity are the widespread
soil degradation and rough topography.



-43-                               ANEX 1.
Page 4 of 11
13.       Marketing.  In the area, the major marketing bottleneck is in fresh
milk production because of the long distance to large markets. Therefore, milk
is processed to cheese and yogurt which have a ready market.
EXISTING INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION AND PROGRAMS
14.       At  the  central  level  four General  Directorates  of Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) are responsible for the project activities:
*    Production and Development (TUGEM - Department of Crop
Production Development and Department of Feasibility Studies
and Projects);
*    Organization and Support (TEDGEM - Department of Extension);
o    Rural Services (KHGM - Division of Soil/Water Conservation
and Regional Research Institutes); and
o    Agricultural Research (TAGEM- Research Institutes).
15.       At the provincial level, with its seven supporting sections,  the
Provincial Directorate of Agriculture (PDA) provides services to the farmers.
Training and operation of the extension service is carried out by the Farmer
Training and Extension Section (FTE).  Adiyaman and Malatya which are being
serviced by the Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (TYUAP
II) are organizing to work with the T&V system. In Elazig extension activities
are carried out through the existing structures.
16.       At the county level, the PDA is represented by County Directorate of
Agriculture with several technical staff. In Adiyaman and Malatya, some counties
have an Extension Supervisor and a County Extension Group.
17.       At the village level, extension activities are carried out by Village
Group Technicians (VGT) in TYUAP II provinces; however, due to the lack of
infrastructure in the villages and/or lack of incentives, in many cases VGTs are
currently based in provincial and county offices and operate through daily visits
to the villages. In Elazig, outside the TYUAP area, extension services to the
villages are also carried out from the County Directorates through daily visits.
18.       There are a large number of agricultural staff (123, 315 and 175 in
Adiyaman, Malatya and Elazig, respectively) at the provincial/county level.
Generally, the extension staff appeared to be underemployed and there is
considerable scope to streamline and decentralize the provincial and even county
structures. Although TYUAP II provinces recently obtained new and sufficient
vehicles, transportation continues to be a problem in Elazig. It may to be noted
that, in spite of all difficulties and inadequacies FTE Sections are dynamic and
enthusiastic.
19.       Activities regarding rural infrastructure, small scale irrigation, on-
farm development, soil and water conservation are conducted by the Provincial
Directorate of Rural Services.  KHGM also has two Regional Directorates (in
Elazig and Malatya) which cover the project provinces.



- 44 -                            ANNE  1.A
Page 5 of 11
20.       Activities regarding agricultural research are carried out by TAGEM and
KHGM. Project provinces have linkages with the following research institutes:
Eastern Anatolia Regional Agricultural Research Institute (Erzurum), Apricot
Research Institute (Malatya), Southeastern Anatolia Regional Agricultural
Research   Institute   (Diyarkabir),   Plant  Protection  Research  Institute
(Diyarkabir), and KHGM Regional Research Institutes (Erzurum and Sanliurfa).
Overlapping responsibilities and lack of coordination among research institutes
create confusion in addressing problems that are critical to land husbandry. The
institutes generally lack experienced staff, transport, research eqaipment and
machinery. However, they will benefit from the Agricultural Research Project
Loan No. 3472-TU.
21.       The project provinces are included in several programs/projects carried
out by various General Directorates of MARA. These include: Crop Production
Development,  Crop Protection and Control and Livestock Development.   Some
programs cover only some of the project provinces: Fallow Reduction (Adiyaman),
Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia Meadow, Pasture and Forage Crops and Livestock
Development (Adiyaman, Elazig). Adiyaman and Malatya are under TYUAP II.
THE PRQJICI
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENTS
22.       Agricultural components form part of a menu of project interventions
from which communities, working with local PDA staff would develop and implement
rehabilitation and development plans for their MC. To achieve agricultural
objectives, the project would partly fund interventions, supporting activities,
demonstrations,  adaptive research and technical assistance.   Agricultural
components to be implemented in the MCs would:
o    promote  technical  packages  which  increase  sustainable
production and maintain the agricultural resource base;
*    increase integration of livestock and cropping systems on
dryland farms to bring about a better balance between supply
and demand for fodder and control erosion;
*    provide  village  communities  with  income  generating
activities to improve rural incomes and provide alternatives
to grazing and farming on marginal lands.   Supporting
activities would be used to facilitate the adoption of
treatments on range and forest lands.
23.       Since the scope of treatments will depend on the prevailing agro-
ecological conditions and the wishes and willingness of the participating
farmers, at this stage, the area of a particular treatment can only be
tentatively indicated.   Table 2 indicates the tentative scope and phasing of
agricultural components (treatments and supporting activities).



- 45 -                                AMEX 1.
Page 6 of 11
Table 2
Estimated scope and phasing of agricultural components (ha)
Components             Unit   1993   1994   1995  19D6  1997   1998    1999   Total
Treatments
Fallow reduction and forage production    ha   2791   4187   4187  5582   5582    3631      25960
Agronomic package                    ha   1667   2500   2500  3333   1667       0       0   11667
Supporting Activities                                       I             I
Rainfed horticulture + conservation  ha    125    187    187   250    250    125             1124
Rainfed terrace agriculture         ha    499    749    749   998    998    499              4492
Irrigated horticulture + conservation  ha    234    351    351   468    468    468    234    2574
Pistachio grafting & establishment  he    333    500    500   667    667    333              3000
Gully horticulture                  ha    190    208    390   680    964    814              3246
Trees along field boundaries        km    64    97    97   129    129          64             580
Irrigated forage                    ha      0    878   1316  1316   1755    1755    878    7898
Bee Keeping J/                      kit     0    180    270   270    360    360    180    1620
No. of MIs that will be treated annually over 6 years are 6, 9. 9, 12. 12, and 6 respectively.
I/ consists of 20 hives, 20 swarms and a set of equipment.
TREATMENTS
24.        All  treatments  will  depend  on  the  effectiveness  of  extension
activities. Development of a strong demonstration program will also accelerate
the adoption process.
a)   Fallow reduction and forage production.   Annual  and perennial  forage
production under rainfed conditions would be promoted by the project to
protect the soil with a vegetative cover, reduce grain cultivation on
marginal lands, bring about a better balance between supply and demand for
fodder and make more productive use of land.   These will  include  the
following:
e    Promotion of annual (Hungarian vetch and common vetch) and
perennial (sainfoin) forage crops into the fallow -
wheat/barley rotation under rainfed conditions;
*    Promotion of annual or perennial forage crops  into the
system where continuous wheat (barley) production is a
common practice in dryland farming; and
e    Production of perennial forage (as a grass - legume mixture
and a pure stand of sainfoin) on marginal wheat land.



- 46 -                             ANNEX LA
Page 7 of 11
Rehabilitation activities would lead to range and forest land being
temporarily unavailable for grazing which in turn would result in feed
shortages (feed supply is already well below present requirements). Forage
crop production on agricultural land will not only compensate for this loss
but will provide sufficient feed for improved livestock production as well.
It is estimated that feed loss (as dry matter) due to closure of moderately
degraded rangeland of about 100 ha could be compensated by producing
Hungarian vetch on 8 ha of dgricultural land.   In addition to forage
legumes, the hay from food legumes (chickpea and lentil) would be used for
animal fodder.  The project will finance on a grant basis the seed and
fertilizer for the first year that farmers adopt the new package. It is
assumed that over the project life feed and food legumes will be produced
on approximately 26,000 ha of land at a cost of US$95 per ha.
b)   Agronomic Packages.   Under the project, small grain production will be
reduced and other crops will be introduced and/or increased.   However,
subsistence wheat farmers of the MC population may be reluctant to convert
wheat area to forage crops or horticultural crops since wheat is grown for
subsistence. This difficulty could be overcome by reducing the number of
parcels that are allocated to wheat and by increasing the yield in the
selected parcels, through agronomic packages adopted to local conditions.
It is estimated that farmers will adopt improved packages on approximately
12,000 ha of existing wheat and barley fields at a cost of US$78 per ha.
The important components of the crop management package are as follows:
*    Timely and appropriate soil tillage (tillage along the
contours) and seedbed preparation that allows moisture and
soil conservation, early seeding and uniform emergence;
*    Early fall seeding that permits emergence and vigorous
growth before the onset of cold weather;
o    Economic seeding rates that permit uniform stands;
*    Economic fertilization; and
*    Use of cold tolerant high yielding varieties.
Measures such as timing of operations which do not need additional inputs
should be emphasized at the beginning. This would avoid or at least reduce
the fear of risk in the adoption process.   It is important that high
yielding varieties be recommended only after modifying the local crop
management package.   Otherwise,  the adoption process will be affected
negatively and 8.
SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES
25.         Supporting activities would be used to facilitate the adoption of
activities on range and forest lands. Supporting activities must therefore be
contingent on village agreement to adopt improved range management practices and
forest treatments. Project costs are given in Annex 5 and 8.



- 47 -                             A_NN    A
Pape 8 of 11
a)    Rainfed horticulture + conservation.   Under the project,  KHGM will
construct 5,616 ha of rainfed terraces on steeper agricultural land (Annex
1B).   The land would then be cultivated on the contour leading to
increased moisture conservation and erosion control. Local farmers are
keen to adopt this practice.  It is estimated that vineyard and almond
orchards would be established on 1,124 ha at an average total cost of
US$373/ha including a farmer contribution in the form of labor of 47% but
excluding the terracing costs. Total terracing costs amount to US$410/ha.
It is further assumed that the remaining 4,500 ha of rainfed terraces
farmers would prefer to produce field crops. In the establishment year,
planting material and fertilizers would be provided by the project, while
other inputs and labor would be provided by the farmers.   In the
succeeding years, farmers would carry out the production with their own
resources.
b)    Irrigated horticulture + conservation.   In areas where irrigation is
possible and conservation practices are needed, KHGM would construct
irrigated terraces (Annex 1B). Based on the keen interest expressed by
the farmers, it is assumed that apricots, applss, plums and some
vegetables would be produced on approximately 2,600 ha at an average total
cost of US$460/ha (62X farmer contribution) for crop establishment. This
establishment cost is to be added to the total terrace ane irrigation
construction costs of $1,622 per ha. It is estimated that on an area of
about 1,250 ha of irrigated orchards alfalfa production underneath fruit
trees would be adopted.
c)    Pistachio grafting and establishment.  In Adiyaman, there is great demand
from farmers for pistachio grafting.   Wild pistachio trees would be
grafted in an area of around 2,000 ha and pistachio seedlings will be
planted on another 1,000 ha where wild trees are sparse. The grafting and
binding material and seedlings would be financed by the project while
labor would be provided by farmers. Total costs amount to some US$50/ha
of which 20% consist of farmer contricution in the form of labor.
d)    Gully horticulture.  Horticulture production would also be carried out on
gullies  that  are  formed  at  the  outlets  of  the  terraces.    For
rehabilitation purposes, almond, pear and walnut trees would be planted in
gullies and vines on slopes. 't is estimated that gully rehabilitation
could be carried out on 3,2,3 ha of land depending on the demand by the
farmers at a total cost of US$400/ha, 40 percent of which the farmers
would provide in the form of labor.
e)    Trees along field boundaries.   It is expected that in each MC, fruit
trees, Robinia, willow and poplars could be planted along the field
boundaries of 5% of the total number of parcels for participating
households. It is estimated that approximately 580 km of field boundaries
could be treated within the project life at a total cost of US$300/km (66%
farmer contribution). Costs of seedlings would be met through the project
and labor would be provided by the farmers.



- 48 -                                   1.
Page 9 of 11
f)    Irrigated forage.   It is asoumed that around 7,900 ha of irrigated
terraces will be used to produce alfalfa at a total production cost of
USS206/ha (76% farmer contribution). Approximately 5,000 ha of this could
be sole cropping and 2,900 ha double cropping (beneath fruit trees).
g)    Beekee2ing.  This activity has a long tradition in the project area. The
provision of modern apiculture kits is linked to individuals adopting
rehabilitation treatments such as perennial fodder banks, fallow reduction
measures etc. The project would provide 30 apicu.-.ture kits to each micro-
catchment consisting of 20 beehives and swarms and a met of equipment at
a total cost of US$2,260 per kit.   In view of the importance of
establishing a strong link between the adoption of long-term natural
resource rehabilitation and short-term income generation, the project
would provide 50% of the investment cost on a grant basis, provided the
village demonstrated adoption of long-term measures.   Credit would be
available for the remaining 50% through ORKOY (Forest Village Development
Fund) at an interest rate of 12% p.a. ORKOY would also be responsible for
the logistics of this activity, while the PDA through the VGT would be
responsible for selection of eligible individuals and extension activities
(see Attachment 1 to this Annex).
DEMONSTRATIONS
27.         The need for demonstrations will be established during the FC-PCPS
process in accordance with the requests and the knowledge level of the village
communities. Defined problem areas wbere the participants lack experience can
be answered by designing on-farm demonstrations. Demonstrations would be carried
out by provincial agricultural extension and forestry staff working on the MC
plans (see Annex 12).
28.         There is considerable information on crop production developed by the
national research institutes. some of this information that is applicable to the
project area could be transferred to the farmers through the following types of
simply designed but effective demonstrations:
o     Conservation village
o     Fertilization
e     Agronomic packages (HYV + crop management practices)
o     Irrigated forage
*     Pulses in context of fallow reduction
o     Forage in context of fallow reduction
e     Perennial forage production
Annual results will be obtained with each type of these demonstrations with
the exception of perennial crops and fallow reduction demonstrations. There is
provision for inputs and support services for 3 ha of demonstrations per MC. The
number and size of each demonstration will vary.
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
29.         During FC-PCPS process the need for adaptive research trials will be
established. Demonstrations are effective tools to answer the problem areas



-49-                               ANNEX 1A
Page 10 of 11
where the farmers lack experience.   However,  if problems arise during the
implementation stage that cannot be answered by MC or provincial extension staff,
adaptive research trials would be conducted. These trials would be designed
based on the previous experience of the research institutes, would have a short
duration and kept simple in order to answer the problem on hand.
30.         Adaptive research would be carried out by the Adaptive Research
Specialist (ARS), one for each province, nominated from existing provincial
staff, who will act as the link between villages and the research institutes
mentioned below.   Logistical support would be provided to staff from these
research institutes to enable them to travel to the project area in order to
conduct these trials with the Adaptive Research Specialist.   The following
subjects have been identified for adaptive research programs (see also Annex 12):
e     Sustainable seedbed preparation on slopes ranging between 4X and 151 by
the Southeastern Anatolia Regional Agricultural Research Institute
(Diyarbakir) and Regional Institutes of KHGM (Sanliurfa);
Annual and perennial forage crop (sainfoin, Hungarian vetch, common vetch,
etc.) by the Eastern (Erzurum) and the Southeastern Anatolia Revional
Agricultural Institutes;
e     Use of herbicides as an improved management tool for minimum tillage with
field crops by the Southeastern Anatolia Regional Agricultural Research
Institute and Diyarbakir Plant Protection Research Institute; and
*     Runoff  and  erosion  measuring  plots  to  calculate  soil  loss  from
representative dryland farming soils, with slops exceeding 91 by the
Regional Research Institute of KHGM (Sanliurfa).
PRODUCTION IMPACT
31.         Yield benefits. The expected yield benefits are summarized in Table
3.   It should be noted that "without project yields" are lower than the
provincial averages due to various reasons such as poor crop management practices
and poor access to inputs, unsuitable soil and topography in the MCs.



- 50 -                           ANNEX  .A
Page 11 of 11
Table 3
With and Without Project Yields
Yields (t/ha)
Crop                              without project     with project (estimated)
Wheat                                 1.1                     2.6
Wheat straw                            1.6                    2.75
Barley                                1.0                     2.5
Lentil                                0.7                     1.1
Chickpea                              0.9                     1.0
Comnon vetch                          2.5                     3.0
Almond                              n. applic.               4.5
Grape                               n. appllc.               4.0
Apricot (irrigated)                 n. applic.               12.0
Alfalfa (irrigated)                 n. applic.               4.0
PROJECT STAFFING REQUIREMENT
32.         The agricultural components of the project would be implemented by
the existing MARA staff. Some reallocation and training of staff is needed (see
Annex 11). The Director of the FTE Division would be the responsible officer
within the PDA. In each province, there would be two staff allocated fulltime
to the project (Micro-catchment Agricultural Engineer and Adaptive Research
Specialist) with new responsibilities as follows below.
33.         Micro-catchment Agricultural Engineer (MAE).   This would be a
existing staff member of PDA who would be retrained to take responsibility for
coordinating and supervising the activities in the MCs. FDA will in addition
nominate one agricultural engineer for each micro-catchment (MCs; Micro-catchment
Specialist); this person is likely to be based at the closest county agricultural
office, or possibly at provincial headquarters if these are easily accessible to
the microcatchment.
34.        Adaptive Research SRecialist (ARS). An existing staff member of PDA
would be retrained to facilitate the establishment and management of adaptive
research and demonstrations. The ARS would act as the technical link between
provincial field staff and research institutions relevant to each adaptive
research  topic.   This person would facilitate research in agricultural,
irrigation, soil conservation and forestry related topics.



- 51 -                          ANNEX 1A
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAXSAL REPORT
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES,
APICULTURE
1.        Apiculture has a long tradition in the project area and interest in
beekeeping is keen. The project will provide apiculture kits and finance 80%
of the investment cost (50% IBRD, 30% ORROY) to individuals in villages
adopting resource management activities in the microcatchments. Farmers would
finance the remaining 20% (see para 2 below). The objective of this income
generating activity is to ensure the lasting adoption of longer maturing
treatments with respect to improved farming practices and rangeland and forest
land rehabilitation. In particular, apiculture will allow villages to capture
benefits in the short run from (a) the conversion of marginal cultivated lands
to perennial fodder banks, (b) the introduction of food and fodder legumes in
the context of fallow reduction, (c) the temporary cessation of grazing of
degraded range, and (d) the implementation of soil conservation afforestation.
2.        The project will provide some 30 apiculture kits consisting of 20
beehives, 20 swarms and a set of equipment (including drugs and sugar for the
first year) at a unit cost of US$2,256 to each microcatchment or some 1,620
kits to the 54 microcatchments at an overall cost of US$3.65 million. The PDA
through the VGT and ORKOY will jointly implement this component at village
level. The VGT will be responsible for (a) the selection of beneficiary
farmers which will be conditional on the adoption of rehabilitation measures
by the beneficiary; and (b) the provision of extension services. ORKOY will
be responsible for providing the apiculture kits to the villages and for
establishing credit and payment procedures. Farmers will receive the
apiculture kits directly from ORKOY who will procure in bulk on the basis of
LCB. The farmer will receive a credit worth 80% of the purchase value of the
equipment on present (1992) ORKOY terms. These consist of a 20% downpayment
and an 80% credit at 12% p.a. with one year grace period during which
capitalized interest; repayment takes place over the three consecutive years
during which 25% of the initial credit amount (including capitalized interest)
is repaid in the first year, 35% in the second and 40% in the third year.
3.        This credit element is justified by the importance of establishing a
strong link between the adoption of long-term natural resource rehabilitation
and short term income generation. Targeting of apiculture support is an
essential element of the rationale and will be ensured by the following.
First, the provision of apiculture kits will take place in the second year and
onwards of the development of a given microcatchment in order to allow for
demonstration on improved agricultural practices and range and forest land
treatments as well as for extension in beekeeping. Secondly, in view of



-52- A-=  1, A
Attachment
PFge 2 of 2
ensuring adoption the final decision to provide a village within a
microcatchment with beekeeping kits will be with the PUB based upon the
meeting of minimum adoption rates. Lastly, after the PUB has taken a pooLtive
decision, the VGT will be responsible for allocating apiculture kits to
individuals that can demonstrate effective adoption of treatments.
4.        ORKOY is the recently established Forest Village Development Fund
under the MOF which provides subsidized credit for a number of activities,
including the purchase of beehives, stoves, sheep and cattle. ORIOU normally
operates in forest villages (i.e. villages located in areas declared as
forests). Though the majority of villages in the microcatchment do not
qualify as forest villages, ORKOY has declared to extend its services to all
villages within the project area starting in 1993, and is presently making the
administrative arrangements in this respect. Close coordination will be
required between ORKOY and the PUB in order to avoid activities to be premoted
which run against the aim of the project, in particular the provision of
cattle, sheep and goat where overgrazing is a major concern. Possible
conflicts arising in this respect which cannot be settled at the provincial
level would be referred to the PCSU at central level. The arrangements
related to apiculture, in particular the effectiveness of the link betweea
adoption of resource management activities and recipient of apiculture klte
and the institution involved, will be evaluated during the Project
implementation Review.



- ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     -3
- 53 -                            ANNEX 1.B
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
RAINFED TERRACING AND SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
1.        Rainfed terraces with subsequent plantation of orchards are a means
of erosion control using physical and biological measures (see Attachment 1 to
this Annex) which offer the possibility of considerable income generation in
:.the medium term. Small-scale irrigation permits an increase in the
productivity of agricultural land and income from farming and thus reduces
pressure to utilize marginal lands. Both activities will be instrumental in
linking long-term resource management with shorter term income generation.
KHGM (General Directorate of Rural Services) of MARA will be responsible for
planning and implementing these activities (including check dams) in the
micro-catchments of the project area. KHGM, which is in charge of
construction of public irrigation works involving water source with less than
500 l/s outflow (DSI for above 500 l/s), has considerable experience in the
design and construction of small-scale irrigation infrastructure either on a
contract or a force account basis.
2.        The scope of rainfed terracing and small-scale irrigation within a
micro-catchment will be determined within the framework of the participatory
planning process (FC-PCPS) involving villagers and the concerned institutions
(see Annex 4). Subsequently, provincial KHGM will a) update existing and
provide supplementary surveys (e.g. soil and cadastral maps); and b) design
and cost the individual works. Designs will then be approved at central KHGM.
Tenders will be issued and contracts awarded by central KHGM on a micro-
catchment basis. As civil works are scattered in remote areas, there may be
insufficient response from contractors and works would then be carried out on
force account. In both cases, provincial KHGM staff will supervise the works.
3.        During project implementation the participatory planning process
will run parallel to the survey and design work as well as to supervision of
works under construction in the different micro-catchments. KHGM has
allocated 3 staff members in each of the provinces to the project; more staff
would be made available if necessary. Sufficient staff are available at
central KHGM to appraise designs and carry out the bidding process.
4.        Works to be carried out under KHGM consist of:
(a) Terracing of rainfed agricultural land as well as establishment of
gradoni terraces (6-8 m wide, small sloping bench terraces) and
pocket terraces. These terraces would be constructed on sloping
dryland areas (some 5,620 ha) at an average total cost of US$410/ha
(including 5 farmer contribution in the form of labor) and would
reduce soil erosion and increase water infiltration. In the case of
pocket terraces, farmers would contribute by providing the stone
material and constructing the walls;



- 54 -                             ANNEX-1.B
Page 2 of 2
(b) Construction of some 270 tanks and small basins at a unit cost of
US$4,000;
(d)  Installation of tertiary (approx. 432 km at a cost of US$7,000/km)
and diversion canals (some 162 km at a cost of US$2,000);
(e) Establishment of 10,530 ha of irrigation terraces at a total cost of
US$1,622/ha which includes a 13% farmer contribution in the form of
labor; and
(f) Construction of some 5,600 check dams using farmer labor and stones
cleared from surrounding land.
The areas indicated are tentative. The final scope of terracing, irrigation
and check structures will be determined in the context of the participatory
planning process.
5.        In accordance with GOT practice, government will finance the
investment costs of these schemes. Operation and maintenance will be the
responsibility of the village communities. New constructions will be subject
to villagers having maintained existing irrigation infrastructure in an
operating condition. KHGM will inform the village communities of this
responsibility.
6.        Rainfed terraces will reduce soil erosion and water runoff and
increase water infiltration and moisture conservation. In addition, terracing
will lead to contour ploughing. Almords and other tree crops would be grown
on the terraces. The irrigated area would be used to grow apricots and other
fruit trees, alfalfa and other fodder crops as well as wheat and vegetables.
These irrigated areas are expected substantially to contribute to farmers'
income and the additional fodder produced from irrigation would encourage
stall feeding and help to relieve the pressure from rangelands.
7.        A key element is close coordination between institutions, in
partizular between KHGM and PDA with regard to extension and demonstration
(e.g. irrigated fodder production, establishment of fodder banks) and the
procurement of seedlings. In addition, the link between long term resource
management carried out by the village community and the provision of income
generating infrastructure will be stressed by KHGM and PUB.
8.        Environmental imipact.  Soil erosion is by far the most important
environmental problem found in the sub-catchments of the project area. The
physical and biological conservation measures described above (rainfed and
irrigated terraces including plantations) are specifically designed to
counteract this problem. These measures will supplement other project
activities such as reforestation and rangeland management which will lead to
the rehabilitation of the selected micro-catchments. Soil salinity and
waterlogging are not likely Lo be problems in the areas to be irrigated within
the project.



- 55 -                             ANNEX 1.B
Attachment
Page 1 of 3
SOIL EROSION IN THE PROJECT AREA
1.        The project area is made up of that part of the catchment of the
Euphrates River which lies in the three provinces of Adiyaman, Elazig and
Malatya. Altogether the project covers an area of approximately 2.4 million
ha.
2.        The catchment covers a complex landscape which varies from rolling
plains to steep mountains. Much of the area is geologically unstable and most
of the natural vegetation has been removed by overgrazing and deforestation.
These factors combined with harsh climatic conditions have led to extensive
soil erosion.
3.        Little soil loss data are available but estimates by the Directorate
of Rural Services (KHGM) show that most of the project area is strongly or
severely eroded. KHGM consider moderate rates of erosion to be from 1 to 10
tons per ha, strong erosion to be from 15 to 50 tons per ha, and severe
erosion to be from 35 to 100 tons per ha.
Table 1                    SUB-BASIN SEDIMENT YIELDS
Sub-basin                                        Mean sediment yield
(T/km2/a)
Upper (Keban Reservoir)                                 3,948
Middle (Karakaya Reservoir)                             5,222
Middle (Ataturk Reservoir)                              4,390
4.        Mean annual soil loss in the project area averages about 40 tons per
ha. Although this is high, large catchments offer opportunities for sediments
to settle and be trapped. Because of this, not all the eroded material is
being transported into the downstream dams. For example, it is estimated that
as much as 88X of the eroded material from the catchment of the large Murat
river, in the upper Euphrates, is retained within the sub-basin -- only 12X
will reach the Keban Reservoir. On smaller streams, the opportunity for
sediment storage is less and more sediment will remain in flux.
5.        The Keban, Karakaya and Ataturk are very big dams with very large
catchment areas and a recent study has indicated that they will all take over
1,000 years to silt up even if the present high rate of erosion is allowed to
continue. As the project is not expected to deal with more than about 400,000
ha, or 17X of the total catchment area, it will not have a great impact on the
rate of siltation or life expectancy of the larger dams. However, excessive
runoff and erosion are seriously reducing the productivity of the forest,
range and agricultural lands of the project area and the general environmental
conditions are deteriorating. Unless land rehabilitation and conservation



- 56 -                             ANNEX 1B
Attachment
Page 2 of 3
measures are introduced, the agricultural productivity of the area will
continue to decline, and farm incomes in this poor region will decrease.
Land Rehabilitation and Conservation
6.        Two important factors were considered in planning the rehabilitation
and conservation measures. First, rehabilitation and conservation measures
can only be effectively introduced and maintained if they are accepted and
wanted by the local communities. This means that the measures must not only
aim at reducing erosion and runoff, but must also lead to increased yields and
incomes. Secondly, soil conservation research is now conclusively showing
that the most effective way of controlling erosion is by protecting the soil
with a vegetative cover. A ground cover of 40% or more can reduce erosion to
acceptable levels.
7.        Consequently, the rehabilitation and conservation works of the
project will concentrate on measures aimed at increasing and maintaining
vegetative cover over the soil.. This will be done through reforestation, and
promoting rangeland rehabilitation and management and better crop husbandry
practices. All the proposed measures are expected both to control erosion and
to increase agricultural production.
8.        Because of the severely eroded conditions of much of the project
area, the steep slopes and difficult climatic conditions, some physical
erosion control measure will have to be used but these will be kept to a
minimum. Physical erosion control measures to be used will consist of the
following:
i.   Forestry land
Widely spaced, bulldozed, bench terraces would be selectively
constructed on steep, highly degraded areas which are to be
reforested. The terraces will then be ripped to allow moisture
penetration. In selected places gradoni terraces will be built by
hand. Technical details are given in the Forestry Annex 3.
ii.  Rangeland
Rangeland would be rehabilitated by fertilizing or by fertilization
and seeding. About 25%, will be contour ripped or contour furrowed.
The rip lines and furrow will reduce runoff and erosion and at the
same time create conditions conducive to the reestablishing of
vegetation (Annex 2).
iii.  Arable land
Small terraces would be built on the steeper agricultural land to
reduce erosion and increase the infiltration of water into the soil.
The construction of the terraces would also lead to the land being
cultivated on the contour - a practice which by itself will help to



- 57 -                             ANNEX 1.
Attachment
Page 3 of 3
conserve moisture and reduce erosion. The terraces would be spaced
according to the degree of slope. After construction, the terraces
would be ripped to promote root growth and planted to almonds and
other tree crops. The inter-terrace area would be used to grow
grapes, alfalfa, cereals and legume crops. This terracing would be
done mechanically as this is four to five times cheaper than manual
construction.
Much of the agricultural land is dissected by gullies. It is
planned that these gullies will be reclaimed where it is
economically viable to do so. Reclamation works would consist of
building small check dams which would catch silt, conserve moisture
and help in reestablishing vegetation. The gullies would then be
planted to fruit trees, poplars or Robinia pseudoacacia.



- 58 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
RANGELANDS
BACKGROUND
1.     More than 50% of the Euphrates Basin is rangeland.  Although extensive
livestock production is potentially the most economically and ecologically
sustainable way of using this rangeland, most of it is now badly degraded and
eroded as a result of overgrazing.   Technical solutions to rehabilitate
rangelands exist and have been demonstrated on a small scale. The large-scale
rehabilitation and improved management of these lands will depend on the
development of economically and socially acceptable technical packages and the
active participation and support of the rangeland managers - the villagers of the
Euphrates Basin.
THE RANGELANDS
2.     An important opportunity to raise production,  control erosion and
generally improve environmental conditions for the project area lies in the
rehabilitation of rangeland. As can be seen from Table 1, about 30% of the total
area is currently productive range; however, a further 430,000 ha in the project
provinces is forest land, much of which is degraded range, and of the 470,000 ha
classified as noncropland, much is also degraded range (see Table 1A of Annex
1A).
Table 1   RANGELAND IN THE EUPHRATES BASIN ('000 ha)
Land Use           | AdiyamanT   Elazig  I Malatya
Total Ag. Land                     252         179         278
Estimated Productive Range          79         360         289
% Productive Range/Total           13%         45%         27%
Area
Total Area                         614         793       1,049
(Soure: ProvinciAl Dirctorates of Agriculture and SIS 1991)
3.     Grazing land in Turkey  is generally classified into three types:
rangelands (mer a), meadowlands (cayir) and highland grazing (yayla). Rangeland
(mer'a) conditions vary from moderately productive, but overgrazed, to severely



- 59 -                               ANNEX-2
Page 2 of 6
degraded and significantly eroded, depending largely on the type of material from
which the soils are derived. Annual dry matter production per ha is estimated
to vary from 500 kg from rangeland lying on igneous derived materials, 300 kg on
sedimentary material and 150 kg or less on skeletal soils.  These rangelands
support a wide variety of resilient plant species which have the ability to re-
establish themselves quickly. Upland (yayla) rangelands are only grazed in the
summer months. They also support a wide range of plant species and have been
shown to respond well to good management and fertilizers.
4.     Covering a relatively small area, the spring fed meadowlands (cayir) are
important as they are relatively productive - typically producing 2 tonnes or
more of dry matter/ha per year - cut for hay. Besides this hay, crop residues
and the lopped branches of oaks are dried and used for winter feed.
TENURE CONDITIONS
5.     Only rangeland lying within the proclaimed forestry areas is considered
to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Forestry (MOF). Other rangeland
belongs to the State ('Treasury Land").  The Ottoman Land Law assigns usufruct
rights to villages and groups that have historically used the rangelands;
however, this Law is now technically abolished. The Land Reform Law of 1973
provides for the State the power to confirm usufruct rights through the granting
of assignment certificates for particular rangelands, but it is not yet being
applied in Eastern Turkey.   It also provides wide powers to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) to develop detailed, annual grazing plans.
Degraded Treasury land can also be allocated to the MOF for rehabilitation. A
new rangeland law is at present being considered by parliament under which the
MARA would become legally responsible for the rangelands.
LIVESTOCK
6.     Livestock husbandry is important in eastern Turkey accounting for more
than 40% of the regional agricultural GDP. However, conditions are difficult.
Extreme winter conditions necessitate housing animals for up to six months of the
year and degraded rangelands, combined with reduced winter forage supplies, means
that many animals are poorly fed for much of the year. Red and Black Anatolian
cattle are well adapted to the harsh conditions but have low productivity and
poor genetic potential. This problem is recognized by the MARA which has been
introducing exotic breeds over the last ten years; these breeds must be well
nourished and cared for, however, to realize their genetic potential.
7.     The number of livestock units in the project area has not changed
significantly in the last 30 yoars but the composition has changed, principally
as a result of agricultural mechanization and migration of family labour. As
tractors have become widely used, most oxen have been replaced by cows and sheep,
particularly in the lowlands.   Goat numbers have dropped as they have been
replaced by more profitable sheep.   Cows have replaced small ruminants in
households with labour (shepherding) constraints.   The changing social and
economic conditions have not only affected the livestock composition but also the
way in which it is managed - this is changing from a mostly transhumant to
sedentary system.   This state of change provides opportunities to introduce
improvements, particularly for the better integration of livestock, cropping
systems and stall feeding to reduce pressure on the rangelands.



- 60 -                               tNE  2
Page 3 of 6
POSSIBILITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT
8.     A number of measures have been successfully identified and demonstrated
which increase livestock production, improving rangeland cor.ditions and control
of soil erosion in this area. These include the use of fertilizers, reseeding
of badly degraded range, controlled grazing, stall feeding, the cultivation of
fodder crops and trees and the introduction of improved animal breeds. Some of
these measures, such as community rangeland management programmes, have been
voluntarily introduced by some villagers without outside help. The technology
and interest therefore exist to bring about the desired changes. The challenge
is to implement what is required on a large enough scale to have an impact.
Preparatory work indicates that most village communities see rangeland
degradation as a high priority problem and are willing to work with the MARA and
MOF to find a solution. A participatory approach has been developed (see Annex
4) through which NARA and MOF staff together with village communities to plan and
implement integrated catchment rehabilitation and development.
THE PROJECT
9.     The central theme to all rangeland components is village participation.
FCPCPS techniques will be used to help villagers to identify, prioritize and
solve their own problems.   It is assumed that the project will help to
rehabilitate and improve a total of 109,000 ha of rangeland.   The proposed
schedule for this work is given in Table 2 and costs are shown in Annex 5. The
project will:
(a)    Develop and use a participatory approach to rangeland management
planning and implementation in 54 selected micro-catchments in the
project area.
(b)    Strengthen the institutional capacity to work with farmers in the
project area by improving rangeland extension capabilities; training
adaptive research assistants; providing equipment and vehicles for
rangeland work; training provincial staff, village group technicians,
farmers, pastoralists and shepherds in integrated catchment
development and range management techniques. This will include herd
size management as well as range management, in order to keep herd
size optimal as range improves.
(c)    Increase  sustaiasble productivity   on  rangelands  by promoting
technical packages and management practices which include:
Development and implementation of rangeland management plans
on approximately 59,000 ha at a total cost of US$10 per ha
focusing on range management groups and using delayed start
and early end to the grazing season, rotational grazing and
temporary cessation of grazing on selected severely degraded
land;



- 61 -                            ANNEX-2
Page 4 of 6
*     Fertilizing  rangelands  and  meadowlands  plus  improved
management of 30,500 ha at a total cost of US$73 (25% farmer
contribution) per ha to increase hay production and to improve
the quality of the hay;
o     Enrichment seeding and fertilization of severely degraded
rangeland of about 20,000 ha at a total cost of US$132 per ha;
o     Pilot trials of aerial fertilization approximately on 5,000 ha
at a cost US$63 per ha and aerial seeding + fertilization of
about 2,000 ha at a cost of US$123 per ha.
(d)    Increase the integration of livestock and cropping systems in the
project area. This will be achieved through production of annual and
perennial forage crops on agricultural land.
(e)    Develop  supporting  activities  to  facilitate  the  adoption  of
treatments of range and forest lands which are discussed in more
detail in Annex LA.
Table 2   ESTIMATED VOLUMES OF RANGELAND REHABILITATION ACTIVITIES
!     Itervention     Unit  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 | Total t
RN it                ha     0   6500  9775  9775  13050  13050  6500  58650
RM + fertiliser      ha  3389  5083  5083  6778  6778  3389         0  30500
RM+seeding + fertltiser    ha  2222  3333  3333  4445  4445  2222   0  20000
Total                ha  5611  14916  18191  20998  24273  18661  6500  109150l
1/ Range Managemnt Alone
10.    The need for enrichment and fertilization of only part of the rangeland
reflects the resilience of much of the rangeland in the project area and its
ability to regenerate quickly without inputs other than good grazing management.
DEMONSTRATIONS
11.    In order to accelerate the adoption of range rehabilitation treatments
simple demonstrations will be carried out on the rangelands by the Adaptive
Research Specialist (ARS). The demonstrations, as shown in Table 3, will be
funded by the project and labor will be provided by the farmers. Demonstrations
are summarized below:
o  Rangeland grazing management
o  Rangeland fertilization
*  Rangeland seeding and fertilizat'on
There is provision for inputs and support services for 3 ha of demonstrations per
MC. The number and size of each demonstration will vary.



- 62 -                              ANNEX_2
Page 5 of 6
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
13.    Adaptive research work will be carried out by the ARS (see para 30 of
Annex 1A). The following subjects have been identified:
* Assessment of seeding and fertilization treatments under grazing
conditions on rangeland and meadowland by Eastern and Southeastern
Anatolia Regional Agricultural Research Institutes;
o Determination of the impact of different fertilizer regimes on
livestock  productivity  and  soil  management  by  Eastern  and
Southeastern Regional Agricultural Research Institutes; and
* Measurement of runoff and erosion on ungrazed range, fertilizer and
seed enriched range and perennial forage production field by Regional
Research Institutes of KHGM.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
14.    The range management component of the project is expected to have a very
important and positive social and environmental impact on the project area. The
main environmental impact will be the effect on runoff and soil erosion. Modern
research indicates that the most effective way of reducing erosion and excessive
run-off is to increase ground cover. Erosion rates usually drop to acceptable
levels once a minimum of 40X ground cover has been achieved. This degree of
cover should be obtained on at least 109,000 ha if the plans outlined above are
put into practice. The proposed range management activities will also increase
the wildlife habitat and help to conserve the important botanical biodiversity
of the region.
BENEFITS
15.    Besides the considerable environmental benefits mentioned above, the
project is expected to result in a considerable increase in available fodder,
improved livestock production and greater possibilities for productive local
employment. Expected increases in range and meadow production are shown in
Table 3.
Table 3   RANGE AND MEADOW YIELDS WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
Yield without    Yield with
project         project
(kg/ha)         (kg/ha)
High quality range            300             700
Median range                  180             380
Poor range                    100             250
Meadowland                  2,000           5,000



- 63 -
Page 6 of 6
16.    Benefits will depend upon the rate at which farmers adopt the technical
packages advocated by the project but, based on the projections given in the
Rangeland Component report, the meadows will produce an incremental 1,500 tonnes
of dry hay per year by the end of the project. Also, the rehabilitated and
improved rangeland will produce an additional 26,000 tonnes of dry matter per
year by the end of the project.
RISKS
17.    With the exception of aerial seeding and fertilization, no untested
technology will be introduced under this component. The widespread acceptance
and implementation of the rangeland components will depend on the FCPCPS
participatory approach being effectively applied by extension staff.   The
availability of extension staff, training and facilities will, in turn, depend
largely upon the effectiveness and commitment of provincial management, and upon
the availability of inputs, particularly forage seeds to farmers when required.



- 64 -                             AMEX 3
Page 1 of 17
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
TREATMENTS ON FOREST LANDS
1. INTRODUCTION
The objective of the project's forestry interventions is to rehabilitate
degraded gazetted forestry lands in order to improve soil productivity, soil
water storage and resistance to erosion, sustained production of woody and
non-woody forest outputs.
2. BACKGROUND
2.1 General characteristics of forests
The three provinces in which the project will operate contain 430,000 ha of
gazetted forest land (15.2% of total land in the provinces) much of which is
regarded as unproductive forest, mostly oak species (Quercus infectoria, Q.
brantii, Q. libani). The oak forests respond strongly to cutting at ground
level and subsequent coppice growth and management. Within living memory
large areas of forest have been removed for fuelwood, timber and forage, and
soils have been severely degraded.
Geological conditions, soils and topography are extremely heterogeneous, and
any management interventions must be closely matched with actual site
conditions.
2.2 Tenure and encroachment
Proclaimed forestry land contains productive and unproductive forests, and
also rangeland indistinguishable from adjacent Treasury rangeland. There has
also been supervised management and utilization of forests under arrangements
for concessional supplies of fuelwood, timber and forage to villagers.
Cadastral boundaries of proclaimed forest lands are not always clearly defined
on maps or recognised on the ground.
2.3 Management objectives and systems
Current management systems aim to (i) supply some rural populations with
domestic wood on a subsidised concessional basis; (ii) allow grazing on
rangelands and within forests on proclaimed forestry lands; and (iii)
rehabilitate forestry lands (see Table A3.1). The peaks of activities up to
1989 depended upon funds from a Revolving Fund which are no longer available
for most of this work, and most rehabilitation and reafforestation now has to
be funded from very limited regular forestry budgets.



- 65 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 17
2.4 Outputs of woody and non-wood forest products
Proclaimed forestry lands in the project area produce, or are capable of
producing, the following products: timber (poles, sawlogs, peeler logs) from
broadleaved and coniferous species, fuelwood, tree foliage fodder, fodder from
grasses and shrubs, bee fodder for honey production, edible and marketable
nuts (pistachios, walnuts, almonds) and fruits (apricots, grapes, plums,
pears) and mulberry leaves for silkworms. Among the very wide range of non-
wood forest products produced in Turkey, the project area may also be able to
produce, with careful management, small quantities of some edible herbs
(thyme, sage, oregano) and perhaps bulbs of ornamental species.
2.5 Past development activities
The project area has had regular forestry development programs (see Table
A3.1) and in addition several foreign-aided projects (for example a WFP
Afforestation, Erosion Control and Range Improvement Project) in related areas
have produced or will produce results directly or indirectly applicable to the
project area.
2.6 Constraints
Proclaimed forestlands in the project area suffer from extreme constraints on
biological productivity: generally low precipitation, poor eroded soils over
some 80X of the area, poor soil water retention rates, extreme cold and heavy
snow cover in a long winter, high summer temperatures with little rain, and
steep slopes with shallow rocky soils. These conditions produce very low
growth rates, probably averaging 1 m3/ha/an of wood volume and less than 300
kgDM/ha/an of rangeland fodder.
Forestry interventions must aim to improve soil organic matter contents and
soil water retention, and to achieve and maintain vegetative cover at 40X or
more.
3. MODELS FOR PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT
3.1 Farmer Centred Problem Census Problem Solving (FCPCPS)
Forestry interventions will be employed as, when, where and how the iterative
processes of FCPCPS indicate so that the optimum rehabilitation of each
microcatchment (MC) occurs within the mandate of the Ministry of Forestry and
in ways socially-acceptable to the villagers.
3.2 Planning and design
Following selection of a MC for project activities, forestry interventions
will be planned and designed based on an updated inventory of MC geology,
soils, slopes, existing forests and erosion status. Alternative types of
treatments from the "menu' of possible interventions will be costed according
to available resources, and benefits assessed so that optimum outcomes can be
achieved.



- 66 -                             ANNEX_3
Page 3 of 17
3.3 Site matching and activity specifications
It will be important to match the selected interventions (and consequent on-
site activities) with existing site conditions. In particular, interventions
requiring mechanical land treatments such as terracing and ripping should only
be employed when appropriate combinations of hydrologic soil group, land
erodibility type, slope and soil depth are found. These are outlined in
Tables A3.2 and A3.3, and are subject to change based on further field
research and observations.
4. PROJECT INTERVENTIONS
4.1 Proposed interventions
There are six types of interventions, most with several sub-treatments,
briefly described below (Table A3.4':
(a)   Soil Conservation Afforestation which would comprise mechanical
terracing, planting acorns on prepared gradoni terraces between the
bulldozed terraces, and broadcast seeding of the entire area w4th a
mixture of forage seed, grass seed and fertilizers. Gullies would
be revegetated, and small check dams constructed;
(b)   establishment of conifer plantations by planting on ripped or
manually prepared slopes;
(c)   rangeland rehabilitation by broadcast seeding with a mixture of
forage seed, grass seed and fertilizers, and gully rehabilitation
with multipurpose tree planting (robinia, willow, poplars, fruit and
nut trees) and check dams when needed;
(d)   oak coppice rehabilitation, comprising cutting of degraded oak
stands to encourage coppicing, and acorn sowing in open areas;
(e)   fuelwood coppice plantations which involve oak planting and acorn
seeding on mechanically ripped and manually prepared sites;
(f)   riverbank protection along unstable banks between low and high flood
levels by planting poplars and willows.
These activities would be undertaken by the Forestry Department, employing
local laborers. The local population, in accordance with current practices,
enter rehabilitated areas to cut and carry fodder, and to participate in
thinning operations.
4.2 Costs
Estimated costs of these interventions with their constituent treatments are
tabulated below and in Annex 5 and 8. Labour costs (ranging from TL45,000 to
TL90,000 per day) comprise a high proportion of treatment costs. The labour-
intensive Oak Coppice Rehabilitation is costed at TL40,000 per day.



- 67 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 17
4.3 Outputs and impacts
Numerous quantifiable and non-quantifiable outputs can be expected from the
forestry interventions. The former include fuelwood (from boles and
branches), tree fodder, grass and forage species fodder, poles, sawlogs,
peeler logs, and honey, nuts and fruits. Paid labour contracts inject cash
into village economies, and income-generating activities (bees, silkworms,
fruit products, livestock production) will have beneficial early economic
effects. Non-quantifiable impacts include better land management
capabilities, improved cooperative planning between OB and villagers, and
gr3atly improved environmental conditions expressed as better soils, soil
erosion and soil moisture conditions. Estimated outputs are tabulated below
(Table A3.5), and in summary these estimates show that over 60 to 75 years
about 600,000 t of fodder, 7.5 million m3 of fuelwood, 1.0 million m3 of
branchwood, 220,000 t of leaves and twigs, 0.8 million m3 of sawlogs, 275,000
m3 of poles and 680,000 m3 of peeler logs will be produced.
4.4 Nurseries
The project will supply equipment, watering systems and civil works to develop
6 new nurseries under Forestry management, to produce plant materials for the
various interventions. Village nursery development will not be directly
supported, because it is too difficult to assure villagers of long-term
production contracts for high-quality seedlings of desired species for
broadscale planting. However, small village nurseries for fruit tree
seedllngs, if desired by villagers, will be supported with advice and limited
supplies.
5 RESEARCH
Although considerable forest research capability exists in Turkey, activities
in the project area will be strengthened by providing some equipment. Current
review topics include oak coppice operations, acorn storage, windbreak species
composition trial and provenance trials. Numerous topics require adaptive and
focussed field research including, in particular: (i) the cost-effectiveness
and effects of mechanical site preparation on growth of trees and forage
species; (ii) costs and benefits of fertilizers; and (iii) effects of site
preparation techniques on erosion control, and soil and water conservation.
The project would provide logistical support principally for data analysis.
Provincial forestry authorities will also assign improved forest areas on a
pilot basis to local communities to manage, adapting from the experience of
the Swiss-funded Community Forestry Project. Precise arrangements will vary
according to agreements reached with particular communities. Programs will be
reviewed at the NTR, and the activity expanded if appropriate.
6. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
6.1 Organisation, staffing and operational funding
The forestry components of the project do not require incremental staff and
will not support any additional staff members, but it is expected that the
organisational framework in which the whole project will operate will improve



-68-                               ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 17
staff allocations and work methods, improve inter-agency cooperation and
concentrate development cooperatively onto limited areas - the microcatchments
- such that agency-villager relationships are made more productive.
As the project lead agency, the Ministry of Forestry, and its constituent
Directorates, is highly experienced in all the field operations required for
the proposed forestry interventions (see Table A3.1), and is staffed and
organised for the proposed tasks of project management, inter-agency and field
liaison, nursery development, field implementation of treatments, and
monitoring.
6.2 Existing forestry programs and responsibilities
These have been greatly inhibited by the loss of most funds previously
allocated from the Forestry Revolving Fund. Now that forestry programs have
to be largely funded from regular budgets, which are severely restricted,
planned (without-project) programs would be much constrained. The experience
exists, however, to carry out programs on a substantial scale.
6.3 Nursery civil works and plant materials production
As discussed above, 6 new dispersed nurseries will be developed with
strengthened equipment and facilities. Research on plant materials production
will be undertaken, and nursery offices/stores, sheds and housing will be
provided.
6.4 Training
Training will include 64 pm of study tours in Turkey, 86 pm of international
short-term training, and on-the-job training for technicians (bulldozer
operations and nursery persons).
6.6 Vehicles
Field services will be strengthened by the provision of 21 small vehicles
(mostly 4WD) for field liaison and field operations in microcatchments
(distributed about one-third to each province), six 3-5 tonne tipper trucks
for transport of nursery soil, fencing supplies and other field materials (2
each province), six 10 tonne trucks for bulldozer transport (2 each province)
and 6 mobile repair vehicles for bulldozer field maintenance (2 each
province).
6.7 Field equipment
The project has budgetted for items of forestry field equipment, particularly
including: ten 160-180hp bulldozers (about 3 each province, or 1-2 per
current MC doing terracing and ripping under SCA treatments); nine 120-140hp
bulldozers (3-4 per province, or 1 per current MC doing ripping under other
treatments); 6 caravans for on-site supervision; 6 farm tractors (1 per
nursery) and other items of farm equipment for each of the 6 nurseries
(tipping trailers, ploughs, disc harrows, bed formers, seeders, root cutters).



- 69 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 17
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.1 Benefits
The forestry component particularly targets degraded lands in the
microcatchments. Benefits will ultimately include reduced soil erosion,
improved land management procedures, better soils and soil water retention,
and tangible outputs including fuelwood, timber, fodder, livestock, honey,
fruits and nuts. An important benefit would be the development of better
cooperation and trust between forestry authorities and villagers - which will
in due course act as a model for future operations in areas outside the
project's immediate zone of influence.
7.2 Justification
The forestry interventions can be amply justified by the expected benefits in
(i) land management and planning, (ii) rehabilitation of currently-degraded
lands, (iii) increased outputs of numerous woody and non-wood forest products,
(iv) increased trust between villagers and Ministry of Forestry, and between
Ministry of Forestry and other GOT agencies, and (v) improved social and
economic conditions in villages.
7.3 Risks
The normal risks inherent in any forestry project - such as failures, or lower
than expected production rates, due to fires, diseases, poor management, weeds
and so on - will be minimised due to the widely dispersed nature of
operations. The major risks are institutional and organisational - within
agencies, between agencies and between villagers and agencies - such that
cooperative procedures for planning, implementation and maintenance might not
be effectively and sustainably developed.  In particular, villagers must
become more self-reliant and must fulfil their sides of any actual or implied
contractual relationship with MoF.
These socially-related risks will be minimised with full and effective use of
the FCPCPS methodology, and subsequent development of sound village-based
initiatives for operations and maintenance.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
8.1 Ecological impacts
The project will not promote or utilise large quantities of substances harmful
or toxic to ecosystems. Provided forestry interventions are carefully planned
and matched to site conditions, soil erosion and hydrological conditions will
not be degraded and should be improved over wide areas. To the extent that
management of the forestry interventions succeeds in maintaining sustainable
vegetation cover and soil organic matter contents, the environmental impacts
will be wholly positive. Wildlife and biodiversity will be improved, and
exotic grasses and other species will not be used.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 17
8.2 Social impacts
These should also be generally positive and beneficial to the extent that
village incomes are sustainably improved, income-generating activities are
created and maintained, women's burdens are minimised and stable village
demographic structures are realised.
9. AREAS TO BE ADDRESSED DURING IMPLEMENTATION
9.1 Areas for interventions
The FC-PCPS procedures to be followed will ultimately define the exact
locations and extents of areas for the various treatments which comprise the
"menu" of interventions. The areas predicated above (Table A3.4) are
indicative only and will be refined as the project continues. As work
proceeds MC by MC, suitable areas for inteventions will become better
understood, which will allow extrapolation with some confidence to the
remaining MCs.
9.2 Wage levels and other treatment costs
The labour content of most forestry interventions is high, and the selected
wage rates have a severe impact on project costs. Provincial forestry staff
will use contracted labors for forestry activities whenever possible, since
wage rates for contracted labor, paid through the Revolving Fund Budget, are
lower than for labor employed under the General Budget.
9.3 Maintenance of planted areas
Costings for most of the forestry interventions include large sums for
maintenance of seedlings for several years after planting. The necessity for,
and cost-effectiveness of, expenditure on these activities will be re-examined
during implementation.
9.4 Mechanical land treatments
Costings for most of the forestry interventions also include large sums for
terracing and ripping. Careful matching of treatments to site conditions will
minimise the areas required to be mechanically treated. The proposed field
research on the cost-effectiveness of these mechanical treatments should
evaluate them and elucidate their environmental impacts.



-71 -                                    ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 17
TABLE A3.1: FORESTRY ACTIVITIES COMPLETED AND SCHEDULED
(without project scenario - '000 ha)
[Acivity                    |-iPre*87  1987  1988   1989 |       1990     1S912        L 1
Soil conservation             2.74    2.73   4.54   8.23    4.62    1.83    1.40    26.09
Range improvement                     1.03   1.35    1.95    0.85    1.10    0.70    6.98  l
Energy coppice                5.50    7.10   7.10   7.39    4.80    6.05    6.15   17.00  I
Energy coppioe renovadion             1.40   1.00   0.80    0.50    0.41    0.41    4.52
Plantation                    3.02    9.55   3.60   5.90    4.87    4.05    3.93   34.92
TOTAL                         8.52  1 19.08114.741  18.37   11.02 [ 11.61  | 11.19   94.53
Developed from replies to questionnaires by provincial authorities.



- 72 -
Page 9 of 17
TABLE A3.2: SELECTION CRITERIA: MECHANICAL LAND PREPARATION
Hydrologic       Slope                           Land erodibility type
soil group      (percent)          I                     1I                   Ill
A             >30         Agroforestry          Agroforestry           Virtually no
tree crops            tree crops            dass A soils
<30         Agricultural          Range
field crops          rehabilitation
B             >30         Agroforesty            Agroforestry          Virtually no
tree crops            tree crops            class B soils
<30         Agricultural          Range
field crops          rehabilitation
C             >30          Virtually no        Forestry terrace        Rangeland
class C sois        (SCA) or range           rehabilitation
rehabilitation
<30         Virtualy no          Forestry ripping        Rangeland
dass C soils                                 rehabilitation
D             >30          Virtually no         Range                 Protection and
class D soils         rehabilitation        rangeland
rehabilitation
<30         VituWly no           Forestry dpping          as above
class D soils
Hydrologic Soil Groups vary In permeabilify and rate of water infitraton. They range from highly permeable In
Group A to vituly Impermeable In Group D.



- 73 -                                          A EX 3
Page 10 of 17
TABLE A3.3: SITE SELECTION CRITERIA
Forestry Activity
Land       Hydrologic        Slope           Soil           Other
Erodibility    Soil Group     (percent)     Depth (cm)    Constraints
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ T yp e   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __            _ _  _ _ _
Soil conservation aforestaffon       2             C         30 to 70 (1)       >35        Environmental
30 to 70 (2)                   Economic
Great Soil
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ___________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________ _  G roup
Conifer plantations
Mechanical preparation             2            C,D             <30            >35       Environmental
Manual preparation                 2             C          30 to 70 (1)                   Economic
30 to 64 (2)                   great soil
___________                          ~~~~~group
Oak coppice rehabilitation          _
Rangeland rehabilitation
Broadcast sowing                                  .             >30            >5
Fuelvood coppice plantions
Mechanical preparation             2            C<D             <30            >35       Environmental
Manual preparation                 2             C             30-70                       EconomIc
River bank protection                .                               -                       Hydrauric
(1) Elazig and Malatya Provinces. (2) Adiyaman Province



- 74 -                                    ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 17
Table A3.4: ESTIMATED PROJECT BASE COSTS OF INTERVENTIONS
Intervention          cost       Area         Base Costs tl    Cost/ha "
Table      (ha)       (US$)   (000)       (US$)
Soil Conservation Afforestation  121        10,000             8,840          884
Conifer Plantations              123         4,800             4,390          896
Oak Copppice Rehabilitation      124        17,800             9,904          556
Rangelarid Rehabiliaon           125        17,800             4,832          271
Gulley Rehabilitation            125           240                95          396
Fuelwood Coppice Plantatons      126        11,800             8,838          749
Riverbank Protection             132           140                29          205
TOTALS                                     62,680            36,928
I/ Project costs excluding farmer contribution.



- 75 -
Page 12 of 17
TABLE A3.5: ESTIMATED OUTPUTS
INTERVENTION          TYPE OF OUTPUT            AREA      NO. OF     OUTPUT AMOUNT     UNIT/VALUE
(ha)     YEARS OR                         (USS)
ACTUAL
_______________________________  ________   YEARS
SCA "           FODDER                                  _
(loss of 300kgDM/halyr) "      10000         5           ( 15 m kg) _
______________  increm. of 200kgDM/ha/yr        10000        55             110 m kg
| _____________   ____________________________  ____=___-_                   95    m     kg  0.07/kg
FUELWOOD (terraces, gullies)
1 m3 at yr 10                  10000       yr 10           10000 n3
26 m3 at yr 20                  10000      yr 20          260000 n3
1 m3 at yr 30                  10000       yr 30           10000 m3
40 m3 at yr 40                  10000      yr 40          400000 m3
40 m3 at yr 60                  10000      yr 60          400000 m3
__________  1080000     38/m3
BRANCHWOOD
______________  0.25 m3 at yr 10                10000       yr 10            2500 m3
6 m3 at yr 20                   10000      yr 20           60000 m3
0.5 m3 at yr 30                10000       yr 30            5000 m3
10 m3 at yr 40                 10000       yr 40          100000 m3
____________   10 m3 at yr 60              10000      yr 60           100000 m3
267500 m3       24/m3
__________    LEAVES, TWIGS
0.8 t/DM at yr 20               10000      yr 20             8000 t
1.28 t/DM at yr 40             10000       yr 40            12800 t
1.28 t/DM at yr 60             10000       yr 60            12800 t
33600 t       8/ton
___  FUELWOOD (Oaks)
_   0.5 m3 at yr 5                  4000        yr 5             2000 m3             _
5 m3 at yr 10                  4000        yr 10           20000 m3
50 m3 atyr2                    4000        yr 20          200000 m3
/ Soil Conservation Afforestation



-76-                                           ANNEX3
Page 13 of 17
INTERVENTION           TYPE OF OUTPUT            AREA      NO. OF      OUTPUT AMOUNT      UNIT/VALUE
(ha)     YEARS OR                          (US$)
ACTUAL
_________________________________            YEARS     _
_____       _   °0.5 n3 at yr2S                  4000           25             2000 m3
5 m3 at yr 30                   4000        yr W             20000 n3
50 n3 at yr 40                  4000        yr 40           200000 m3
0.5 m3 at yr 45                 4000        yr 45             2000 m3
5 m3 at yr 50                   4000        yr               20000 m3
____        _   50 n3 st yr 60                   40Ca        yr 60 0         200000 m3
666000 m3       431/3
.    BRANCHUOOD (Oaks)
3 m3 at yr 20                   4000        yr 20            12000 M3
0.5 .3 at yr 30                 4000        yr 30             2000 .3
6 63 at yr 40                   4000        yr 40            24000 m3
0.5 m3 at yr 5o                 4000        yr 50             2000 n3
8 n3 at yr 60                   4000           60            32000 m3
72000 m3      24/m3
LEAVES, TWOIS (Oaks)
1.0 t/DN at yr 20               4000        yr 20              4000 t
0.25 t/DN at yr 30              4000        yr 30              1000 t
2.0 Ot/DN at yr 40              4000        yr 40              8000 t
0.25 t/DM at yr 50              4000        yr 50              1000 t
2.0 t/Dn at yr 60               4000        yr 60              8000 t
22000 t    8/ton
CONa            FODDER
(Loss of 200kg/hl/yr)           4900          75         (-94.5 m kb)      0.07 kg
SAULOGS                                   _            .
__________         20 .3 at yr 4S                4900        yr 4S            98000 m3
18 m3 at yr 55                  4900        yr55             88200 m3
120 n3 at yr 75                 4900        yrl 75          588000m3
774200 m3       187/m3
PEELER LOGS                              _      _           _     _    _        _
90 3 at yr 55                   4900        yr5S            4410003 m
48 m. at yr 75                  4900        yr 7            235200 m3
'A/  frnunifer PlAnt*tf in



- 77                                            A JNNEXK 3
Page 14 of 17
INTERVENTION            TYPE OF OUTPUT            AREA       NO. OF      OUTPUT AllOUNT     UNIT/VALUE
(ha)     YEARS OR                           (USS)
ACTUAL
_____ ____ ____   ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ ____YEARS
676200 m3       1161m3
POLES
9 m3 at yr 35                    4900         yr 35            44100 m3
10 m3 at yr 45                   4900          r 45            49000 m3
4 m3 at yr 55                   _. 00_        yr 55            19600 m3
24 m3 at yr 75                   49'1         yr 75           117600 m3
230300 m3       151/m3
.    FUELWOOD                            =
13 m3 at yr 34                   4900            35            63700 n3
20 m3 at yr 45                   4900         yr 45            98000 m3
_________           13 .3 at yr 55                 4900        yr S5             63700 m3
48 m3 at yr 75                   4900         yr 75           235200 m3
=           .__________                                                         460600 m3        46/m3
OCR              F fODDER                                                                  _
(loss of 200kgDM/ha/yr)          17800          2           (-7.1 m kg)
incren. of 200kgDM/ha/yr         17800         58              206 m kg
198.9 m kg       0.07/kg
FUELWOOD
(w/o project, total over 10      17800    (by yr 10)       (-534000 n3)
year a 30 m3/ha, then 0)
Cw/project, asswe standing
stock -
20 m3/ha  cut in yr 1            17800        yr  1           356000 m3
0.5 m3 at yr 5                   17800        yr 5              8900 m3
5 m3 at yr 10                    17800        yr 10            89000 M3
50 m3 at yr 20                   17800        yr 20          890000 m3
0.5 n3 et yr 25                  17800        yr 25             8900 m3
_  m3 at yr30                    17800        yr 30            89000 m3
50 m3 at yr 40                   17800        yr 40           890000 m3
_  0.5  3 at yr 45                 17800        yr 45             8900 .3
I_ 5 m3 at yr 50                   17800       yr 50             89000 .3
j/ Oak Coppice Rehabilitation



-78-                                           ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 17
INTERVENTION           TYPE OF OUTPUT            AREA      NO. OF      OUTPUT AMOUNT      UNIT/VALUE   1
(ha)     YEARS OR                          (USS)
ACTUAL
YEARS
50 m3 at yr 60                  17800       yr 60           890000     __
3319700 m3       50/m3
BRANCHWOOD                                                                             ||
(w/o project, total output      17800    (by yr 10)      (-178000 m3)
over 10 yrs. * 10 m3/ha,
then 0)                           _
tu/project, assume standing
______ ______ stock   a                                           1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
5 Mn/ha, cut in yr 1            17800        yr 1            89000 m3
3 m3 at yr 20                   17800       yrZ0             53400 m3
0.5 3atyr 30                    17800         r 30            8900 .3
6 m. at yr 40                   17800       yr 40           106800 .3
0.5 3 at yr 50                  17800       yr 50             8900 m3
8 m8   at yr 60                 17800        yr 60          142400 m3
409400 m3       35/c3
LEAVES. TWIGS        _
Cw/o project, total output      17800    (by yr 10)        (-17800 t)
over 10 yrs. = It DM/ha,
then 0)
(w/project, assume standing
______ ______ stock   a                              1 _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _
0.25 t DM, cut in yr 1          17800        yr 1              4450 t
1.0 t at yr 20                  17800       yr 20             17800 t
0.25 t at yr 30                 17800       yr 30              4450 t
2.0 t at yr 40                  17800        yr 40            35600 t
0.25 t at yr 50                 17800        yr 50             4450 t
2_0 t at yr 60                  17800          60             35600 t
102350 t       8/m3
RANGE LAND      FODDER
RENASILITAT.                                                                                            II
(toss of 200kgDM/ha/yr)         17800         5          (-17.8 m kg)
increm. of 200kgDN/ha/yr        17800         55           195.8 m kg
178 m kg      0.07/kg



- 79 -ANIIEX  3
Page 16 of 17
INTERVENTION            TYPE OF OUTPUT             AREA      NO. OF      OUTPUT AMOUNT      UNIT/VALUE
(ha)     YEARS OR                           (USS)
ACTUAL
YEARS                   _  _
FUELUWCD
From gully rehabilitation,
assume all branchwovd
3 m3 at yr 20                    240          yr 20              720 m3
3 m3 at yr 40                    240          yr 40              720 m3
3 m3 at yr 60                    240          yr 60              720 m3
2160 m3        38/1m5
FCP "            FODDER
(toss of 200kgDM/ hafyr)         11800          2           (-4.7 m kg)
incren. of 200kgDM/ha/yr         11800         58            136.9 m kg
____________  _132.2 m kg                     0.07/kg
FUELWOOD
0.5 m3 at yr 5                   11800                          5900 m3
5 m3 at yr 10                    11800        yr 10            59000 m3
50 m3 at yr 20                   11800        yr 20           590000 m3
0.5 a3 at yr 25                  11800        yr 25             5900 m3
m5 3 at yr 30                    11800        yr 30            59000 m3
40 n3 at yr 40                   11800        yr 40           590000 m3
0.5 m3 at yr 45                  11800        yr 45             5900 m3
5 m3 at yr 50                    11800        Yr 50            59000 m3
50 m3 at yr 60                   11800        yr 60           590000 m3
1964700 m3        50/13
BRANCHWOOD                                                                       -
3 m3 at yr 20                    11800        yr 20            35400 m3
_  0.5 .3 at yr 30               11800        yr 30             5900 Mn
_____ __   6 m3 at yr 40                     11800         ° _             70800 m3
0.5 m3 at yr 50                  11800        yr 50             5900 m3
______ __   8 m3 at yr 60                 11800       yr 60             94400 m3
______________  ______________________________         ___________        212400     m3    35/m3   _
LEAVES, TWIGS
__  1.0 t Dh  cut in yr 20       11800        yr 20             11800 t
F/ uelwood Coppice Plantation



- 80-                                           AME  3
Page 17 of 17
INTERVENTION            TYPE OF OUTPUT            AREA       NO. OF      OUTPUT AN"UNT      UNIT/VALUE
(ha)     YEARS OR                           (USS)
ACTUAL
_______________                                ~~~~~~    ~~YEARS   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_____________  0.25 t at yr 30                     11800       yr 30              2950 t
2.0 t at yr 40                   11800        yr 40             23600 t
0.25 t at yr 50                  11800        yr 50              2950 t
2.0 t at yr 60                   11800        yr 60             23600 t
64900 t        8/ton
RIVER BANK       POPLAR
PROTECTION       Sawlogs and poles, assume
150 ml   at yr 15                120         yr 16             18000     _        _
100 nt at yr 25                  120         yr25              12000 m3
150 m3 at yr 40                  120         yr 40             18000 .3
100 M. at yr 50                  120         yr 50             12000 3
150 m3 at yr65                   120                           18000 m3
100 m3 at yr 75                  120         yr 75             12000 m3
90000 m3        35/mA
WILLOW AND OTHER SPECIES
Assume all is fuelwood in
small sizes             __                          _              ___
60 6.  at yr 10                  20           yr 10             1200     _        _
60 m3 atyr 20                    20           yr 20             1200 m3
60 m3 at yr 30                   20           yr 30             1200 m3
60 3n at yr 40                   20           yr 40             1200 .3
60 mm3 at yr 50                  20           yr50              1200 .3
60 m  at yr60                   20           yr 60             1200 on_
90 m3 at yr 75                   20           yr75              1200 m3
= _                             9000 m3        35/m3



- 81 -                              ANBZ 4
Page 1 of 9
£M[FAPPRAISAL REMOR
EASTERN ANATOLIA VATERSHED REHABILITATO  PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR NICRO-CATCEXENT PLANNING
A. Project Area
1.          Ten sub-catchments in the middle part of the Firat basin, covering
an area of approximately 1.5 m ha have been identified to be in urgent need of
treatment. Close to 80X of the area is strongly to severely eroded, vegetation
is badly degraded, soils are shallow in many places and soil loss is very high.
The main cause of this degradation is overexploitation of range and forest
resources by, until recently, a rapidly expanding rural population. Of t1.e ten
sub-catchments, three are located in Adiyaman province (Goksu, Kahta, Ziyaret),
three in Elazig (Baskil, Kusova, Uluova) and four in nalatya province (Kuru Cayi,
Malatya, Siro Cayi, Thoma Cayi). The project would, during a seven year period,
plan and initiate works in 54 (about 251) of the 214 micro-catchments which
constitute these 10 sub-catchments. The 54 micro-catchments are estimated to
embrace an area of approximately 400,000 ha.
S. Objectives
2.          The main objective of the project would be the attainment of
sustainable systems of resource use in the upper catchments (i.e. bringing about
a better balance between supply and demand for fodder and wood, controlling
erosion, and enhancing income and employment) through:
(a)   improved productivity of range and forest land (treasury land);
(b)   promoting cultivation of fodder and wood and conversion of marginal
farm lands to fodder banks to enhance production and conserve soil
and moisture;
(c)   selected supporting activities designed to increase income and
facilitate the adoption of treatments of range and forest lands;
(d)   increased responsibility and involvement for local communities in
planning and management of their resources.
3.          Although  the rationale  for the project  is the need  to halt
degradation of natural resources, the realization of tangible and immediate
benefits for the farm families in the project area is of vital importance for



- 82 -
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 9
adoption of treatments and for subsequent protection and maintenance of
investments.
4.          As project resources only suffice to treat a fraction of the
identified needs in the project area (para 1) and degradation of natural
resources is a major problem also in other parts of Turkey, the replicability
i.e. the cost effectiveness of the treatments will be a major concern. Priority
should be given to degraded lands which will give an adequate return to
investments. Where there is a choice between more or less expensive but still
viable treatments, a judgement about the return per dollar spent should guide the
choice.
5.          Treating degradation frequently involves changing the ways people
manage the land resource. The communal use of rangelands offers a particular
challenge. Micro-catchment development must be seen as a process of gradual
improvement. People may not accept improved management on the total range area,
and even if they do it may be advisable to test the capacity and the commitment
of the village on part of the area.  The interaction with people thus often
dictates phasing of activities and looking at the development efforts an the
start of a more continuous process. One of the principal tasks of the technical
experts in watershed management and participatory planning to be recruited will
be to guide the MC planning and implementation process and provide on-site
training to staff.
C. Selection of Micro-catchments
6.          The Provincial Forestry Department would (in consultation with other
agencies) be responsible for the selection of MCs and those with a larger
proportion of range and forest land would be given priority. The criteria for
selection of MCs include judgements about:
o     the severity of problems in terms of vegetative degradation and soil
erosion including the imbalance between the supply and demand for
fodder and wood;
o     the prospects for achieving an adequate return to the treatments
offered under the project; and
o     the extent to which the problems are recognizea by the MC population
and there is a willingness to explore solutions.
7.          The  selection process  thus  involves  assembling  and analyzing
available information about population, livestock and land use etc, observing
conditions in the area, and an initial presentation of project objectives and
interaction about problems of natural resource degradation in MC villages. This
assessment of potential interests would have to be based on discussions with the
Muhtar, Council of Elders and individuals in each MC village.
8.          The project envisages initiating work in total, over a six year
period, in 18 MCs in each province. To facilitate implementation, it would be



- 83 -
AMMl 4
Page 3 of 9
advisable to concentrate the selection of the three MCs in any given year in one
sub-catcbment (see para 1).
D. The Treatment Menu
9.          The interventions (treatments) that can be funded under the project
are summarized in Annex 5. This menu is a basic tool in the MC planning process
and the provincial planning team will determine on technical, economic and
institutional grounds which treatments are applicable to the situation in a
particular MC. These remaining treatments would need to be explained to the MC
population in the course of the problem solving discussions (see below). More
detailed descriptions of each treatment are included in Annexes 1-3.   The
provincial MC Planning Team cannot by itself add to or change these treatments
but can make suggestions to the Project Coordination Unit. The menu would be
revised annually in the right of experience with project implementation.
10.         The cost sharing arrangements between the government and the
beneficiaries during the establishment (investment) phase are also indicated for
each treatment in Annex 5 and will be explained to the villagers in the course
of selecting priority treatments during the problem solving discussions. The
subsequent recurring costs of operation, maintenance and management are generally
the responsibility of the farmers concerned.
11.         The benefits of the different treatments generally accrue to the
person(s) adopting the intervention in question.   In the case of the forest
treatments, they are, however, shared with the government in the way described
in Annex 5, Attachment 1. The aim should be to establish a partnership between
the forestry department and the village in question, in which such benefits are
matched by village contributions, for example to protection or thinning etc.
12.         The adoption of supporting treatments such as irrigation development
(ponds, terraces) and rainfed terraces in combination with orchards, grapevines,
almond, pistachio, beekeeping and agro forestry must be dependent on village
agreement to range management practices and forest treatments (the village
should, however, be free to choose among these forest treatments). At most, one
third of the total MC cost should be devoted to such supporting treatments.
E. The Preparation of Indicative MC Plan
13.         The officers responsible for project implementation in the three
provincial departments (Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Services) will each
appoint one or more members to the MC Planning Team.   The member from the
Provincial Forestry Department would be the team leader. Their staff in turn
would nominate staff to form a MC group for each particular microcatchment.
Subject matter specialists as required and local field staff (Agricultural and
Forest Engineer) where available,  should form the group.   The PDAS have
undertaken to nominate one agricultural engineer for each microcatchment. In
view of the joint objectives and links between different types of treatments, it
is of crucial importance to ensure that the planning becomes a joint effort (as
opposed to three parallel efforts). Following selection of the MC, the following



- 84 -
ANEXL 4
Page 4 of 9
steps in the preparation of the Indicative MC Plan may be distinguished and will
be discussed below. A rough indication of time required is given.
(a)   Assemble relevant data                                  2 weeks
(b)   Village discussion of problems and constraints          1 week
(c)   Rapid Resource Appraisal                                1 week
(d)   Village discussion of solutions and priorities          1 week
(e)   Preparation of draft village plans                      1 week
(f)   Discussion of draft village plans                       1 week
(g)   Finalization of indicative MC plan                      1 week
(h)   Approval of indicative MC plan
14.         Present operational procedures obviously include discussion with
villagers.   These discussions frequently take the form of obtaining village
consent to plans drawn up by respective departments. This project, however, aims
at not only involvement in approval of plans but active village participation in
the formulation and implementation of these plans.  Such participation would
ensure that the interventions respond to the perceived local needs and priorities
and that a genuine commitment to and responsibility for the success of the
project is generated.   The method used to achieve such participation is the
Farmer Centered - Problem Census Problem Solving (FC-PCPS) approach described
below.   The village is the management unit for rangelands and for resource
sharing arrangements with respect to forest lands. The building blocks of the
Indicative MC Plan are the village plans formulated through close interaction
over problems and solutions (chosen from the treatment menu) in each of the MC
villages. The MC boundaries may have to be adjusted to avoid dividing a village
and thereby complicating data collection and interaction. Highland pasture areas
(yayla) outside the MC cannot be included in the treatment proposals but need to
be considered when calculating fodder supply. The time required to prepare the
Indicative MC Plan will, to a large extent, depend on the number of villages
embraced by the MC but an average estimate of 8 weeks is given above.
15.         Assemble relevant data.  In preparation for village discussion, the
planning group would mobilize available information and survey conditions in the
MC villages. An indication of the required information and analysis is provided
in Attachment 1.
16.         Problem census meetings.  Armed with the relevant data and analysis
a problem census meeting would be arranged in each MC village in consultation
with the Muhtar. Problem census meetings involve all villagers with livestock,
land or other agricultural activities. Men and women participants record their
individual problems and form small groups to discuss and prioritize these
problems. Each small group then reports its prioritized list of problems to the
village group in a plenary session which determines and prioritizes a list of
problems for the village as a whole. No problem is excluded at this stage. The
process is structured and non threatening.   Importantly,  it initiates the
relation between village participants and the provincial planning team by
listening to villagers. Once the village group has identified and prioritized
problems, the treatment menu suitably adjusted to MC conditions (para 9) is
presented to them and the objectives of the project explained.  The linkage



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
between project activities and priority problems are explored and appointments
made for problem solving discussions.
17.         RaRid resource appraisal.  Problem solving activities are initiated
with a field assessment of village resources. The appraisal is an attempt to
observe resource problems and discuss solutions in the field through a combined
effort by the provincial planning team and village participants. Using copies
of a 1:25000 topographical map important landscape features are recorded and
areas which do not respond to treatment (e.g. areas with unstable geology), which
do not need treatment (areas with sustainable production systems) and areas which
have already been treated are identified. In remaining areas the main land use
features (forest, range and farm land) are noted and problems of degradation and
erosion are observed and discussed (livestock trends, fodder and fuelwood
shortages, cultivation practices). Having identified target areas it will be
important to clarify the users/owners of these areas (e.g. users of range and
forest land, owners of marginal crop land, farmers who could benefit from
conservation practices).   Field appraisal offers an opportunity to explore
solutions with such target groups and to explain to participants the linkages
between priority problems and possible project treatments. Problems of declining
water supply may for example be remedied by efforts to improve vegetation and
infiltration. Marginal land may be released from crop production if the owner
can enhance productivity elsewhere. Range degradation may be reversed if the
stall feeding season can be prolonged through project activities to enhance
cultivated forage production. The target areas and groups would be recorded on
field maps as a basis for further discussion of solutions.
18.         Village discussions of solutions and treatment priorities.  On the
basis of the outcome of the problem census and the rapid resource appraisal and
having given the village a chance to consider the treatment menu the next step
in the interaction would be:
(a)   Discussion of fodder situation (objectives - subsistence or sale -
and trends in livestock keeping; constraints in the form of scarcity
of labor and fodder; investments in livestock if fodder constraints
were removed; sources of winter fodder and opportunities to enhance
availability; range management);
(b)   Discussion of fuel wood situation (different sources of energy;
quantities used; sale of wood; decreasing inventory);
(c)   Agreement on range and forest areas needing treatment; excluding
areas which are beyond repair and those that appear to be in
relatively good shape or which have already been treated;
(d)   Selection of treatment options for selected range and forest areas
with due consideration to the needs for fodder and wood;
(e)   Discussion of management practices for the selected range and forest
areas, the benefit sharing arrangements for forest treatments and
phasing of interventions;



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
(f)   Discussion of treatments to promote fodder and wood production on
farm land (irrigation, fallow reduction and agro forestry);
(g)   Discussion of treatments to transfer marginal farm land to perennial
forage production;
(h)   Discussion of supporting activities (beekeeping, horticulture in
combination with irrigation and rainfed terraces) and how they can
be used to facilitate for target groups (range and forest land
users, owners of marginal land, etc.) to accept key treatments;
(i)   Agreement on a program of demonstrations and pilot work.
19.         It should be made clear to the villagers that they will need to
choose among treatments to meet their priorities. The resources available under
the project for the 54 MCs amount for an average MC of 7,000 ha to US$1.5
million. If more is spent in a particular area, it means either that less will
be spent in another MC or that the total project area will be reduced.  The
latter option would be unfortunate in view of the widespread nature of the
degradation problems and the need to find cost effective and replicable solutions
(para 4).   Viewing watershed development as a continuous process, there is
considerable scope to make a good start within this indicative cost frame by
varying the area treated,  the phasing and selection of treatments.   The
supporting treatments (irrigation, rainfed terraces, horticulture, beekeeping,
trees on field boundaries, etc.) would be linked to the adoption of treatments
of the range and forest lands and would be subject to a ceiling of 33X of total
treatment cost (para 12).
20.         Preparation of draft village plan.  Guided by the problem solving
discussions (paras 18-19), the MC planning team would prepare the village
treatment plan showing the recipients, volumes, phasing and location (map) of
different treatments. The phasing of the works may be spread over at most a five
year period. Applying the unit costs indicated in the treatment menu the total
and average per hectare cost can be calculated (cost would be updated on a annual
basis) and the responsibilities of the three implementing agencies determined.
The responsibilities of the village and its individual members in terms of
management practices and cost sharing should be indicated. A check should be
made to ensure that the average cost of supporting treatments per village
household does not deviate too much from one village or MC to another.
21.         Discussion of draft village glan. The draft will be presented to and
reviewed in the village as the frame for the collaboration during the following
five years (detailed work plans would be prepared each year in the light of
progress and experience - see below). Amendments would be made where necessary
and the village should be asked to indicate its agreement by the signatures of
the Muhtar and the Council of Elders (range and forest land) and the individual
recipients of treatments.
22.         Finalization of Indicative MC Plan.  An outline of this report is
provided in Attachment 2.   The report would summarize the results of the



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
interactive planning process described in the preceding paragraphs and would thus
contain sections provided the general characteristics of the MC, the results of
the problems census discussions, the rapid resource appraisal and the problem
solving discussions as well as a summary of the agreed treatments. The report
would provide an aggregation of the village plans and would give the framework
within which the three departments would operate.   It would also given an
indication of the size and phasing of the work of each agency.
23.         Approval of Indicative MC Plan.  The MC planning team would submit
the Indicative Plan via the Provincial Steering Committee to the Project
Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU) in Ankara, which would be responsible for
quality control (responsiveness to guidelines, completeness and depth of
analysis, adequacy of proposed treatments and cost implications) and for approval
of the Plan. The approved plan would be submitted to the members of the National
Steering Committee for information.
F. Preparation of Annual Work Plans and Budgets
24.         The Indicative MC Plan would be elaborated to provide the work
program and budget for the first year of implementation. In subsequent years,
it would be necessary to review progress made and experience gained as well as
possible results from pilot work and demonstrations and the provincial MC
planning team would need to interact and agree with the MC villages on the
appropriate modifications to the original Indicative Plan. The activities would
need to be planned in detail and village workplans and budget requirements would
be aggregated for the MC and broken down by Agency. These annual plans and
budgets would be reviewed by the Provincial Steering Committee and forwarded to
the Project Coordination Unit in Ankara. The provincial budget requirements for
each agency would be the sum of the MCs under active implementation and would
need to be checked against the availability of funds. This may resudlt in a need
for further village consultations and modifications of the MC annual work
programs and budgets or alternatively in reallocation of funds between agencies
if the National Steering Committee so decides. The Provincial budget request is
forwarded by each agency through normal channels. The annual budget process
would need to begin in June and requests submitted in August.
G. Implementation
25.         The Indicative MC Plan and subsequent annual work programs and
budgets would define the role of each agency which would proceed with procurement
of necessary equipment and materials (generally through PCSU), assignment of
staff, mobilization of machinery services, arrangements for training of staff and
villagers (with help from PCSU), and interaction on detailed implementation
schedules and the organization of the village contribution to the treatments in
question. The agencies are being strengthened under the project to fulfill their
planning and implementation tasks.



- 88 -
ANNX4
Page 8 of 9
H. Nonitoring and Reporting
26.         Leading on from initial FC-PCPS,  which will have generated a
substantial volume of basic data concerning the MC and the village, a continuous
process of monitoring and management information systems will be established.
Regular meetings with the village leaders will monitor the progress towards
physical and participatory objectives determined during the planning process.
A database will be assembled, geared towards measuring progress and assisting
future planning. To assist further in the monitoring project impact, selected
villagers participating in the project would be asked to maintain their own
records through a new system of auto recording introduced by the Provincial
Directorate of Agriculture (PDA) with the help of short term TA. Records would
include:
e     yields, agronomic practices and weather observations;
*     livestock management practices;
o     water yields from springs; and
Results should be regularly reported by the PDA to the monitoring unit in the
Provincial Forestry Directorate. Quarterly summaries would be submitted to the
PCSU Ankara, as part of the management information systems. An annual report
would be prepared by October each year to assist future planning and
implementation.
27.         Each provincial agency would monitor physical works and investment
costs in each MC against the Indicative MC Plan and against subsequent
modifications of this plan introduced during the annual budgeting process. A
report providing and commenting upon this information would be submitted
quarterly to the provincial monitoring unit with the village-level observations.
28.         Each  agency  would  provide  a  simple  quarterly  summary  of
demonstrations, pilot work and adaptive research in the province to the
provincial monitoring unit. By November each year they would produce an annual
report and suggest possible amendments to the treatment menu and project
implementation procedures.
29.         The monitoring unit in Provincial Forestry Directorate would maintain
the database of information assembled in connection with the original planning
as well as information generated subsequently (e.g. through observation, dialogue
and the auto recording effort).   The monitoring unit would aggregate the
information received from the implementing agencies and produce an annual
progress report to be submitted to the Project Coordination Services Unit in
Ankara through the Provincial Steering Committee by December each year.
30.         The PCSU would aggregate the reports from the three provinces and
produce a annual progress report for the project as a whole by January each year
to be submitted to the National Steering Committee and subsequently to the World
Bank.



- 89 -
ANNEK 4
Page 9 of 9
31.         The Regional Research Institutes of Elazig (Forestry), Diyarbakir and
Erzerum (Agriculture) and Sanliurfa (Rural Services) would be contracted, if
necessary,   to monitor the adoption of treatments (technical execution of
treatments, the yields, vegetative composition and density in rangelands with and
without the different treatments, input use, the effectiveness of protection and
management of forest and rangelands, external factors influencing the outcome
(e.g. weather, fire, disease, etc.)) for one MC in each of the three provivses.
Results should be reported by October each year to the provincial monitoring unit
and incorporated in the annual report.



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
DATA FOR MC PLANNTNG
A.    GENERAL INFORMATION
Topographic map 1:25 000
Soil erosion hazard map 1:1 000 000 (KHGM)
Geological map 1:500 000 (KHGM)
Soil map 1:100 000 (KHGM)
Land use capability map 1:100 000 (KHGM)
Climatic data (PDA)
Agricultural calendar (PDA)
Rainfall erosivity map and tables (KHGM)
B.   VILLAGE INFORMATION
Map indicating MC and village boundaries
Population data and trends (employment outside the MC)
Livestock data and trends
Land use (forest, range and farm lands ) - area and map
Crop production (rainfed, irrigated ) - area and yields
Characteristics of forest lands - vegetation and yields
Characteristics of range lands - vegetation and yields
Highland pastures outside MC - area and yields
Irrigation, Sources - wells, springs/ponds etc. - potential for
further development
Livestock production and marketing
Erosion problems (areas threatened, cultivation of marginal lands
etc.)
Assessment of fuelwood demand and supply
Assessment of winter fodder demand and supply
Assessment of grazing demand and supply



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
MC INDICATIVE PLAN - OUTLINE
1.    Introduction
2.    Basis for selection
3.   MC characteristics
3.1 Physical resources
3.2 Land use and crop production
3.3 Human resources
3.4 Livestock resources
3.5 Summary table
4.    Project Framework (treatment menu adapted to MC conditions)
S.    Problem census
6.    Rapid resource appraisal
7.    Problem analysis and solutions
7.1 Analysis of key problems in utilization of natural resources
7.2 Linkages between priority problems and project framework
7.3 Selection of treatments
7.4 Linkages between key treatment and supporting activities
7.5 Management of range and forest land
8.    Indicative plan for villages and MC as a whole
9.    Summary of forest activities
10.   Summary of agricultural activities
11.   Summary of village affairs activities



- 92 -
Page 1 of 1
TREATENST MENU AND COST SHARING
Treatment              Cost        Unit           Investment Unit Cost        Volume      Elpacted
Table                  Total    Project   Farmer                   Investmeat
Cost       Cost     Shareu                 Balance for
I                  8     ~    ~~       ~~~ 8  2               Average MC
8 000
1. Forest Land (MoF)                                                                                   825 (551)
Soil Cons/Affo                   121t       ha        884         884           0       10000
Conifer Plant.                    123       ha        896         896           0       4900
Oak Coppice                       124       ha        556         556           0       17800
Range Rehab.                     125         h ha     271         271           0       17800
Fuelwood Coppi.                   126       ba        74g         749           0       11800
Riverbank Prot.                   132        ha       410         205          50          70
2. Range Land (TEDGEKSTUGE)                                                                             120 (81)
Range Management                  128       ha         10          10           0       58650
R.M.+fertiliza.                   127       ha         73          55          25       30500
R.M.+fert.+seed                   128       ha        132         111          16      20000
Pilot aer. fert                   160       ha         63          63           0       5000
P.aer.fert+seed                   160       ha        123         123           0       2000
Demonstrations                    162       ha       300w         200          33        162
3.  Arable Land (TEDGEM/TITNM)                                                                           75 (52)
Agronomic pack.                  129        ha       100          78          20       11667
Fal.Red.+For.pr.                 130       ha        120          95          20      25960
Demonstrations                   162       ha       300S         200          33        540
4. Supporting Activities                                                                                105 (71)
(TEDGXM/TUGEM)4'
Rainf.hort+cons                  149       ha        373         179          52        1124
Irrig.hort+cona                  149       ba        460          51          89       2574
Gully horticult                  144       ba        397         240          40        3246
Trees field bou.                 151       km        297         101          66        580
Irri8. forage                    149       ha        206          50          76       7898
Pist.graft+est.                  151       ha         50          40          20       3000
Beekeepine"                      142      unit      2256        1128          SO        1620
5. Supporting Activities                                                                               375 (251)
(KEHGM)4
Small irrig.                     131       ha       1622        1407          13      10530
Rainfed terrac.                  133       ha        410         390           5       S616
Total     1500 (1001)
1/ Farmer contribution to investment usually includes management of range land the cost of which we have been
unable to estimate, labor and in the ease of horticulture cultivation and fertiliser. The responsibility for
subsequent follow-up including operation and manutenance rest wlth the farmers except for forest treatmet for which
farmers only contribute same protection.
?/ Includes gully revegetation in forest lands.
3/ The cost of demonstrations only include material and farmer contribution of labor. The extension incremental
recurring costs of approx. a further $200 per demonstration is included In cost table 112.
4/  The sum of supporting activities TEDGIWTUGI and KM16 sbould not exceed 33X of the total investment cost for
the MC. A check should also be made to ensure that the average cost of supporting treatments per viUlage household
does not deviate too mich from one village or MC to another.
V/ A unit includes 20 hives. Credit from Ork8y or sce other source may be available to cover 75X ($846) of the
farmer contribution.



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment
Page 1 of 1
BENEFIT SHARING IN FORESTRY TREATMENTS
1. Soil Conservation Afforestation
Fodder:           After 5 years open to cut and carry management or grazing
(depending on circumstances). 1001 to people.
Fuelwood:         First thinning (year 10) - 1001 to people
Subsequently: People receive 501 of harvest at 25X of market
price.
Branchwood:       1001 to people.
Leaves/Twigs:     100% to people.
2. Conifer Plantation
Sawlogs:          People receive 20X of output at 401 of market price
Peeler logs:      People receive 20% of output at 401 of market price
Poles:            1001 Government
Fuelwood:         1001 Government
3. Oak Coppice Rehabilitation 50-70%
Fodder:           After 2 years - cut and carry management
After 7 years - grazing
1001 people
Fuelwood:         First thinning (year 10) - 1001 people
Otherwise: People receive 501 of output at 251 of market
price.
Branchwood:       1001 people
Leaves/Twigs:     1001 people
4. Range Rehabilitation
Fodder:           After 5 years cut and carry management or grazing depending
on circumstances - 1001 people
5. Riverbank Protection
Mod_. 1:          Main stream - Government provides free seedlings only -
people get 701 of the benefits.
Model 2:          Small stream - Government pays total cost - people get 501
of benefits.



-94-
Figure 1
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PRojECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
National Level
M1inistry of Forestry                                        Ministry of Agriculture
APKKB                                                            APK
I l        -- National Steering I/ --
OM    ORKOY                  Committee                 KHGN        TU i        TEDEN
AN
Planning
Project Coord. 2/ ............                        Provincial           Prov ncial
Unit (Ankara)                                          Off  lal             Off cial
Provincial Level
Provincial Director .......... Provincial 3.         ........ Provincial ...... Provincial
Steering Committee                Director            Director
Forestry
F tryM        r       AgriculIure
Responsible Officers 4/ ....... Responsible .......          Responsible
Provincial                       Of icers 4/                  Off cers
Implement on Unit.
Local Level
Subject matter
Forest                                                            specialists are
Engineers                                                          Village 6royp
Techniciansi
MC Villagers!
1/       Budget Reallocations. Annual Progress Report, Review Sample of HC Indicative Plans.
2/       Review and  approval  of the MC Plans/Budget  reallocations.  Training.  Procurement.  Monitoring.
Preparation of Annual Progress Report
3/       Review of Indicative NC Plans. Annual MC Workplans and Budget. Annual Provincial Progress Reports.
Key meetings would be chaired by the Oeputy Director.
4/       Preparation of Indicative MC Plans; Anuual MC Work Plans and Budgets.



- 95 -
ANltEX 6
Figure 2
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
MMR OF INSPECTION
tNOERtSERTY
DEPUTY UNDERSECRETARY (2)
ADVISORY AND AUDITING UNITS                                AUXILIMAY UNITS
RESEARCH PLANNING AND COORDINATION COUNCIL             DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
LEGAL CONSULTANCY OFFICE                              |DEPT. OF ADNINIST. AD FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
CONSULTANTS OF THE MINISTRY                            DEPARTMENT OF PUBLICATION
SECRETARIATE OF CIVIL DEFENCE
NAIN SERVICE UNITS                                         AFFILIATED UNITS
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF FORESTRY             |EN. DIRECTORATE OF FOREST PRODUCTS INDUSTRY
-GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF AFORESTRATION AND
|EROSION CONTROL                            I
- SEN. DIR. OF NATIONAL PARKS AND SANE
GEN. DIR. OF FOREST AND VILLAGE
RELATIONSHIPS



-96 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
NONITORING MIS AND EVALUATION
1.          Arrangements for the monitoring and evaluation component would be
coordinated by the Project Coordination Support Unit (PCSU) which has been set
up in the Ministry of Forestry based in Ankara. PCSU will rely on provincial
staff to fulfill the monitoring, MIS and evaluation program, supported by
contracting external bodies (e.g. TKV) to undertake special studies as required.
2.          The objectives of the exercise would be, firstly to act as a
Management Information System (MIS), secondly to document the project in such a
way that, should it be replicated in some form in the future, information will
be available to improve the planning process; thirdly, it would monitor and
attempt to explain the response (adoption rates) of the villages and participants
in the project micro catchments; finally, the impact of the project would be
measured in terms of the improvements in resource management, yields and income
changes resulting from the adoption of the various treatments on offer. At the
same time data would be collected for treatments to establish whether they should
continue to be included (or modified) in the menu on offer (e.g. pistachio
grafting, beehives, woodlots). At all stages, the results of applied research
programs also would be closely monitored to see whether the menu should be
modified. Detailed data as out migration and other socio-economic indicators
such as work patterns, education, health and nutrition would be examined through
a series of ad-hoc surveys contracted to outside bodies. The measurement of
secondary benecits in terms of run off, soil loss, stream flows and sediment
discharge is btyond the scope of the project at this stage.
Actions by the Project Coordination and Support Unit (MOF)
3.          Technical assistance would be recruited at an early stage to provide
support to the unit: a total of 12 man-months short term input is envisaged over
the life of the project. The Project Coordinator would be supported in the work
of M&E by existing staff who would be trained in the use of computers for
database operation and MIS procedures. A general framework would be drawn up at
the PCSU for discussion at provincial leve'. to determine the most appropriate
systems to be adopted along with the range of data to be collected.  Emphasis
would be given to the coordination of data collection between the various
agencies aqd provinces involved in project implementation and individual
responsibilities carefully specified. A program of activities would be drawn up
together with review and reporting procedures.   This program would include
regular field visits by the Project Coordinator to provide support and direction
to the provincial staff. The Central Unit would be respC.ilsible for the collation
of information supplied by the Provincial Implementation Units (PUBS) and for the
presentation of an annual report with commentary. The PCSU would be responsible
for contracting outside institutes or consultants to implement specific
requirements of the M&E Program. Specifically, studies would likely be required



ANNEX 7
97                            Page 2 of 3
prior to the Project Implementation Review and thereafter for ad hoe surveys into
specific issues. Towards the eand of the project surveys may be necessary in
anticipation of a further project phase.
Actions by the Provincial Imnlementation Units (PUBS)
4.          The basis forc monitoring by the PUB would be the outline annual work
program and budget for each micro catchment against which progress would be
measured and appropriate revisions made for future plans.
(a)   PUBS would maintain a data bank of information  assembled in
connection with all micro catchment planning - both those included
and those opting out of the project.   The data collected would
include characteristics of the community as a whole plus data on
individuals compiled through auto-recording procedures discussed
below;
(b)   PUBS would monitor the progress: institutional development (staffing
levels and trairing), MC planning, physical works, invesitment
expenditure per MC and per treatment (inputs and outputs). Simple
reports (Activity Monitoring Schedules) would be compiled quarterly
to provide management information both to provincial and central
management;
(c)   PUBS would identify additional data required to improve project
planning and implementation and agree with the PCSU how best to plug
these gaps.  Surveys would be arranged to cover such aspects as
attitudes and aspirations, technical constraints, prices and
marketing and other issues found to be important for smooth project
planning, implementation and impact analysis. These surveys would
be contracted to local consultants or institutes who would report to
the PUB and PCSU;
(d)   PUBS would provide an annual summary of demonstrations, pilot work
and adaptive research in the Province and suggest possible
amendments   to   their   treatment  menu   and  procedures   for
implementation;
(e)   PUBS would p_oduce a short annual progress report according to a
format agreed with the Central Unit to be submitted to the PCSU on
which would be based the next year's program.
The Projects and Statistics Ulnit at each PDA would be responsible for gathering
field data to contribute to the MIS.   Methodology and content would be
coordinated by the PCSU in consultation with the PUBs with advice from the short-
term TA.
Actions by the beneficiaries
5.    To complement the participatory approach to planning in the MCs, the
beneficiaries would be requested to maintain simple records of their activities -
auto-recording. This system would be piloted with the help of the short term TA
and thereafter introduced throughout the project. Support would be given to the



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
- 98 -
selected villagers participating in the scheme, in the early stages, by the staff
from the provincial Projects and Statistics Units of the Ministry of Agriculture
who would collect regularly, verify and analyze the data.   Records to be
maintained would include:
(a)   agronomic practices, yields, weather observations
(b)   livestock management and production
(c)   labor utilization (on and off farm)
(d)   other income generating activities
The continuous auto recording of data would be amplified by periodic surveys of
a sample of beneficiaries to collect additional information as requested by
management e.g. impact of the project on women, use of veterinary services, use
of hired equipment and labor, technical knowledge versus practice.
SuDport by the Regional Research Institutes
6.          The Regional Research Institutes would, as part of their adaptive
research tasks, monitor the adoption of treatments and factors constrtining
adoption of the technical packages.   They would respond to a detailed work
program set out for them by the project. Comparative data would be collected to
assess the impact at field level of the various treatments, catering for the with
and without project situation (i.e. data collection from non-participating MCs).
Of particular interest would be the social and economic data which affect the
response of the community and individuals to the project.   Details would be
collected to help verify and complement the auto recorded data. The Forestry
Institute would  have  special  responsibility  for  the  examination  of  the
effectiveness of forestry treatments in terms of rehabilitation, protection and
resource reclamation. Methods used would include the study of vegetation using
aerial photographs and ground truthing.  Data to be collected would include
species counts, growth rates, -egetative regeneration and yields, forest and
range management (self policing/cost sharing), and other external factors
affecting the outcome of the project. Plans would specify reporting requirements
and in particular those for the MTR and PCR.
7.          Pricing and marketing data.  Little is documented of the pricing and
marketing mechanisms of farm level for both inputs and outputs. There is an
efficient mix of private sector middlemen, cooperatives and direct trading
activity and a better understanding of this sector could assist project planning.
Management may decide that more information in this area would promote better
decision making at village level. Certainly, accurate price data is needed for
the evaluation of project impact. M&E activities by the Projects and Statistics
Unit would therefore include the recording of prices at the various stages of the
marketing chain for the various outputs. This data would be augmented by studies
to collect more detailed information as determined by project management. Money
has been budgeted under the project to undertake these studies.



- 99 -
Page 1 of 30
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
ASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENT PRQLE
A.        Summary Tables
Table
1       Estimated Disbursement Schedule
2       Price Contingency and Exchange Rate Assumptions
3       Project Components by Year (including contingencies)
4       Summary Accounts by Year (including contingencies)
5       Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
6       Financing Plan by Project Component
7       Financing Plan by Implementing Institution and Year
B.        Detailed Cost Tables
101       Project Coordinetion and Support
111       Strengthening Field Sarvices (MOF)
112       Strengthening Field Services (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
113       Strengthening Field Services (KHGM)
121       Soil Conservation Afforestation (MOF)
123       Conifer Plantations (MOF)
124       Oak Coppice Rehabilitation (MOF)
125       Range Rehabilitation (MOF)
126       Fuelwood Coppice Plantation (MOF)
127       Range Management & Fertilisation (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
128       Rangeland Seed and Fertilizer (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
129       Improved Agronomic Packages (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
130       Fallow Reduction by Legumes & Forage (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
131       Small Scale Irrigation (KHGH)
132       River Bank Protection (MOF)
133       Rainfed Terraces and Check Structures (KHGM)
142       Apiculture (ORKOY)
144       Gully Horticulture (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
149       Support Activities Budgeted for TEDGEM/TUGEM
151       Trees on Field Boundaries (TEDGEM/TUGEM)
160       Pilot Aerial Seeding & Fertilizing of Rangelands
161       Applied Research - Forestry Research Institute
162       Demonstrations, Adaptive Research - Rangeland & Agriculture



-100 -                               ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 30
Table 1
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (US$ MILLIONS)
A. EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHAbILITATION PROJECT
IBRD       Cumulative  % of Loan
IBRD FY &   Quarter  Dlsbursements Disbursements Disbursed
FY93             -4          0.75           0.75       1%
FY94             -1           2.4            3.1       A - °h
-2           3.1           6.2       8%
-3           3.1           9.4       12%
-4           3.1          12.5       16%
FYPS            -1            3.4           15.8      21%
-2           3.4           19.2     25%
-3           3.4          22.6      29%
-4           3.4          25.9      34%
F  8s           -1            2.8           28.7      37%
-2           2.8          31.5      41%
-3           2.8          34.3      45%
-4           2.8          37.1      48%
FY97             -1           3.4           40.5      53%
-2           3.4          43.9      57%
-3           3.4          47.3      61%
-4           3.4          50.7      66%
FY98             -1           3.6           54.2      70%
-2           3.6          57.8      75%
-3           3.6          61.4      80%6
-4           3.6          64.9      84%h
FY99             -1           2.4           67.3      87%
-2           2.4          69.6      90%h
-3           2.4          72.0      94%
-4           2.4          74.3      97%
FY2000           -1           0.7           75.1      98°h
-2           0.6          75.7      98%
-3           0.6          76.3      99%
-4           0.6          77.0      100%
B. IN-SITU GENE CONSERVATION PROJECT
GET DISBURSEMENTS
FY93          FY94        FY95    FY96      FY97
Annual                        0.2            3.1      1.0      0.6       0.2
Cummulative                   0.2            3.3      4.3      4.9      5.1
% of Grant Disbursed           4%           65%       85%      96%     100%
Note: Detailed Cost tables and a detailed disbursement profile of the
In-Situ Conservation Subproject are provided in the Technical Annex.



- 101 -
Page 3 of 30
Tablo 2
Watorshed Rehabilitatio  E=oect
PricLCntinOency aud  Xchan Rate
Local             66%     41%       24%       18%      13%      1%        11%
Foreign          3.8%    1.9%      2.7%     3.4%      3.6%      3.6%      3.6%



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Projects Components by Year
Totals Inctuding Contingencies
USSo00
1993           1994           1995          1996           1997           1998           1999          Total
A. Strengthn'g Agency Capcty
1. Planning and Management                  1640            1164          1149           1124            707            764            412           6961
B. Watershed Rehabilitation
1. Cropiwnd Soil Moist. Com                   115            178            184           255            264            137              0           1134
2. Cropland Fallow Reduction                 302             470           485            669            693            462              0           3081
3. Range-Meadowland Enrichmt                   78            135            249           353            421            485            480           2201
4. Rangeland Rehab,Tedm/Tugm                  225            428            483           690            793            623            369           3610
5. Fuelwood Coppice Plantn.                  860            1590          1796           2336           2557           1654            412          11205
6. Oak Coppice Rehabilitat'n                  943           1724           1960          2547           2804           1887            718          12583
7. Soil Cons. Afforestation                  990           1660           1790           2352           2515           1580            232          11119
8. Conifer Plantations                        430            760            851          1161           1290            846            234           5572
9. Rangelnd Rehab., MOF                       523            861           950           1277           1369            891            223           6093
10. River Bank Planting                          5              5              8              8              5             6              0             36
11. Strength. Field Services                 7134           4948            1342          1026            942            614            511          16516
.............. ....................... .................................................... _. . . ..... _.___....... .....
Sub-Total                                       11607          12757          10097          12674          13653          9184           3178          73150
C. Supporting Activities
1. Smalt Scale Irrigation                   1929           3068           3207           4388           4596           2543            151          19882
2. Rainfed Terraces                           276            428           442            609            631            327              0           2714
3. Apiculture                                   0            484            752           779           1078           1119            601           4814
4. HorticuLture                                59             89            156           237            344            317             53           1254
................................... ........................................................................... ... ......    ,...................... ..... _.   
Sub-Total                                        2263           4070           4557           6013           6649           4306            805         28663
D. Applied Research
1. Forestry Research                           18              1              2              1              0             0              0             23
2. Range & Agric Research                      14            200            210            104           229            188             47            992
....,............. ... ....... ............. ......................... ................. ..................................... __.........
Sub-Total                                           32           201            212            105            229            188             47           1016
. ........................................................ ..........    -------------------------------------................................... ..... ............... . .. ........
Total PROJECTS COSTS                            15543          18193          16015          19916          21239          14461           4442         109790
---------I.............. .................    ..........                          -----                 ..   _._,.,__.
Values Scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 10:24
H- (D tz
iD    X
'-3
w0
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals IncLuding Contingencies
usSOOO
.. ... .... .. ..  _. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1993          1994           1995          1996           1997          1998           1999         Totat
2=-=2=25S2SS2=2===22=S2-===S=-===C========2SD=== =-5S==                         -----n-.2S=22====*   2
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
. .... . . . . . . .
A. Civil Works                                2852          4456           4468          6053          6309           3351             81         27570
B. Plant, Equipment                          4824           3906           1123          1184           1197          1190           601          14025
C. Materials                                  1872          3299          3628           4722          5105           3262           406          22294
0. Vehicles                                  2025            899            441           468            524           363           259           4979
E. Training                                   631            699           727            515           400            254             19          3244
F. Technical Assistant                        368            675           545            422           283            267           179           2739
0. Labour                                    2005           3681          4233           5548          6144           4292          1393          27296
H. Project Prepara. Facility                  750              0              0             0              0             0              0           750
.ii. ....... ............. ....; .. .. .. ...... ...... ... .... . ......................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      15327          17615         15164          18911         19962          12980          2938        102897
11. RECJRRENT COSTS
...................
A. IncrementaL Staff Costs                       0             0              0             0              0             0              0             0
B. Other Increm. Oper. Costs                  216            578           851           1004          1277           1462          1504           6893                   1
. _........... . .......................................... .. ...............   _..............
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         216            578           851           1004          1277           1462          1504           6893                   o
TotaL PROJECT COSTS                         15543          18193         16015          19916         21239          14441          4442         109790
.__ .........______........... _..__........................_.___..........                         --      ------       ---------------------
Values Scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 10:23
0-A0
m  X
0 OD
0
CD



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern AnatolSa
Fitmncin Plan by Disbursement Category
The Wortd
Bank       Governsent       Total                Local
................. --..- -------.------------    For.   (ExcI.  Duties
AMount   Z    Amount   X       Amount   X       Exch.  Taxes)  & Tax.
A. Civit Works                   34173   60   23065    40    57237   52    12452   34028   10758
B. Goods                         30152   88    3961    12   34113   31    14844   16342    2927
C. Training & Tech. Assist.       5983   100        0     0     5963    5    4099    1769         115
D. Project Prepara.                 750   100       0     0      750     1      617      132        0
E. Other Inereu Opew.             3446   50    3446   50    6893    6    3031           3370      492
F. Apiculture development         2407   50    2407   50    4814    4           953    3259       602
Total Disbursement                76910   70   32879    30   109790  100   35996   58901    14893
........... ...................... ...................... ................................................ _.
Values Scaled by 1000.0 29J/1993  11:16
Note: During ngotiatiors it wa agreed that (a) totat World Bank financing woutd be increased to US$77
million, and Cb) a disburement category uunaltocated  woutd be established mounting to USS3.25
mittion; the tatter mount is obtained Ci) by reducing the aortd Bsank disbursements under "civil
works" by USS3.16 million, and (if) by adding USS90,000 fncrease in total loan Mount.
It 0
0



Turkey
Vatershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatotia
Financing Plan by Project Component
USSOOO
The world
Bank        Government       Total                 Local
.............................................     For.     (Exct.   Duties
Amount    X     Amount    X      Amount   X       Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A. Planning and Management          6118    88       843    12     6961     6      3998     2612      351
B. Cropland Soil Moist.             1012    89       121    11     1134     1       236      796      102
C. Cropland Fatlow                  2696    87      385    13      3081     3      1060     1636      385
D. Range-Meadowland                 1498    68       703    32     2201     2      1030     1152       19
E. Rangeland                        2990    83      620    17      3610     3      1061     2306      243
F. Fueltwood Coppice Plantn.        6310    56     4895    44    11205    10       444      7809     2953
0. Oak Coppice                      7305    58     5279    42    12583    11       1210     9365     2008
R. Soit Cons. Afforestation         7254    65     3865    35    11119    10      2191      7915     1013
1. Conifer Plantations              3318    60     2254    40      5572     5      396      3808     1368
J. Rangeland Rehab., MOF            4712    77     1381    23      6093     6     1270      4152      671
K. River Bank Planting                21    58        15    42       36     0         0       26       10
L. Strength. Field Services        13474    82     3042    18    16516    15    12949       1896     1671
M. Small Scale Irrigation          14102    71      5779    29    19882    18      7655     9413     2813
N. Rainfed Terraces                 1930    71      784    29      2714     2      1192     1183      339
0. Apiculture                       2407    50     2407    50      4814     4      953      3259      602                                               I
P. Horticulture                     1035    83      219    17      1254     1       185      850      219
0. Forestry Research                  20    88         3    12       23     0        20        0        3                                              o
R. Range & Agric Research            708    71       284    29      992     1       146      723      123                                              U'
....................... ;  ...............................................I
Total Disbursement                  76910    70    32879    30   109790   100    35996    58901    14893
==Y=      ==   M=C== =Y=5==Y===                         ==Y===
Values Scaled by 1000.0  29/1/1993  11:16
oo o CO
~"0
M-J
wA)
0



I      II
fit                  gi   t£
'itU                     t  
Ii a i:N
8       ~; II i g_8_
if        I-    -- -- --   --
| XHNIiV       901 i'  Xsg             Ii
X        | Ii z    ' I     it 
IE g     it     i i  X gl
I2i n    hi I  i           
I1  I I  bti I             S 
S    I fi    i Z    
I2 fi   g gei 
o ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~   .   ___________
~~X~~NNV ~                 g 90T-   Q



Turkey
Uatershed RehabitItation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 101. Project Coordfnation and Support rtv
TA, Equipment, Vehiclqs, GtS, PPF, Konitoring and Evaluation
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantfty                                               oane Costs in USS$00
Unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total            1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
1. NITmNET COSTS
................
A. PCSU:On job Train.Courses
farmer Trainfno             Trainee days   3000   3000   6000   6000   6000   6000           0  30000         30    30    61    61    61    61         0
In-service Trainfng         Trafnee days   3760   3900   4110   4210   3720   3720    440  23860             114   118   125   128   113   113    13
Sub-Total                                                                                                     144   149   185   188   174   174    13
S. Technical Aslistance
ISf R h. Dev. Sp.           person m ths      4       9       9       2       2      0       2      28        51   114   114    25    25         0    25
Econ,NIS,N&E Int.Recrt Sp   persen m ths      3       3       1       1       1       1      2      12        56    56    19    19    19    19    37
RangeN anagement Special.   person m ths      3       6       6       2       0      0       0      17        56   112   112    37        0      0     0
PCPS, Partfc. Dept Spec.   persont ths         3      2       2       1       0      0       0       8        56    37    37    19        0      0     0
irngNapower DesDt Spec.   personm'ths         3       2       2       2       0      0       0       9         0     0      0      0      0      0     0
Locally Recruited Spec.     persn m*ths       5       7       7       7       7      4       2      39        15    21    21    21    21    12         6
lnternationl Consuttants   personm  ths       2       2       2       2      4       3       3      18       37    37    37    37    75    56    56
Adaptive Research Specia.   petsonw  ths       2      2       1       0       0      0       0       5        37    37    19       0      0      0     0
Sub-total                                                                                                     309   416   360   159   140    UT   125
C. Computers plus Training                                                                                                                                           -
D'top 386. NBR= 4,11D 80   no.                 3      3       0       0       0      0       0       6        15    15      0      0      0      0     0       0
L'top:386. H Rom 4 NO 80   no.                3       3       0       0       0      0       0       6        15    15      0      0      0     0      0
rNs,Wfis48dDT*p * 1§B  c4 set                  2      3       0       0       0      0       0       5        17    26      0      0      0      0     0
Sub-Total                                                                                                      4     56      0      0      0      0     0
0. PCSU Plant and Equlpment
library Incl'greferences   sua                0       0       0       0       0      0       0       1         5    15    20    10        0      0     0
Sundry Office/drawg etc     sn                 0      0       0       0       0      0       0       1        20    20    10       0      0     0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                                      25    35    S0    10        0     0      0
E. PCSU bosed Vehicles
4 kD S9                     no.                5      0       0       0       0      0       0       5       109     0      0      0      0      0     0
4 UD TC IU                  no.               3,      2       0       0       0      0       0       5        60    40      0      0      0      0     0
Sub-Total                                                                                                     169    40      0    .0       0     0      0
F. GI5
Training                    personm  ths      0       0      30      30     30      30       0    120         0      0      9      9      9     9      0
Tech. Assistant/Foreign     person m'ths      0       3       3       2      2       0       0      10         0    49    49    32    32        0      0
Tech. AssistantVLocal       personm  ths      0       2      12       6      6       6       0      32         0     6    36    18    18    18         0
Equipment                                     0       0       0       1      0       0       0       1         0     0    91   212        0     0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                                      0    55   185   272    60    27          0
C. PPF                                                                                                                                                         t 
Training                                      1       0       0       0      0       0       0       1      217      0      0      0     0      0      0  P)
Technical Assustant                           1       0       0       0      0       0       0       1       181     0      0      0      0     0      o e 
Equipment & Unallocated                        I      0       0       0      0       0       0       1       327     0      0      0      0     0      o t
10  I
0



Sub-Totat                                                                                                  72      0      0     0      0      0     0
1. NIS Nanitoring B Evaltut.
Researd'Iuurveycontracte                     0       1      0       1       0      1       0      3         0   101      0   101      0   101      0
Operationsfuast.per de-                                                    -      -       -3-              10    tO    10    10    10    10    10
Sus$fTotal                                                                                                  10   I11    10
Total IUSI N S  COT S                                                                                           1431   662   71    41   3         399   148
ti. laREOT cmSTS
A. Pe     d7
PCSU "n. WSWed O.Spec   no.                                                 I 1  1  1   1  I  1   7        0      0      0     0      0     0      0
PCSU As.Nn. Trainin Sp   no.                 1       1      1       1       1      1       1      7        0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Prowepmntlelallet          no.               17                                                            0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Eoon./NiS plSepoctlalst    no.               1       1                                             1  1  1  1  7  0  0  0     0      0     0      0
Accounant                  no.               1       1      1       1               1     1      7        0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Sbw-Total                                                                                                                    0     0                0
B. eration & Naintenac
Ptnt and Eipmwt                                                -                  - a                      S      S      S     S      5     5      5
Vehictes 81SX Init.cost/a   SUB                            -       -          -       -                    0    39    47    47    47    47    47
Consrables                  tan             -       -                                                         -  -    0    22    40    40    40    40    40
Bus ire for Trasining      mu                0       0      0       0      0       0       0      1       20    20    40    40    40    40         0
Per Oles                  an                0       0      0       0      0       0       0      1       8      81    81    40    40    40    40
&r-Total                                                                                                   106   168   213   173   173   1n    13
Total 3EItEIT COSTM                                                                                              106   168   213   173   173   in    133
manm=nm    n aana  3mg. a==      Uaug.m  mna.
Total                                                                                                         1537  1030   984   914   556   572   281
n, Includts PCU,Ae*rA office.
¢  Reearchbsforstrywu2M.hsub;hort;ratnd,drylmnd   ris.: rrig.agric.
43 Lis  an per Year to Pw f*or prowinal fual,per dlsue  & opertioen costs
44* two coputers for PewU wi;n  per prowince yr2. Price  lcd printer.
42 Permmsl sonded fro IMF oxistliog staf.
O  Paper.ribbon  dfscas    rElaigs trael
-Volue calnted ri.0   0/1/1993  1lA
'IP 
cr10
o
F0



Turkey
Uatershed Rehabititation Project
Eastern Anatotlia
Tabte M1. Kinistry of Forestry
Strengthening Field Services
Detalted Cost Table
tLOOO
Quantity                                             Base Costs fn US6000
init  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  196  1999 Totat          1993    1994    1995   1996    1997    1998    1999   Totat
..Z,...................................... .... ......   ............................................. ........ ..............._
1. INVESTMENT COm
................
A. Study Tours (Turkey)
V teo Pasture                person htho      0      0     4     0     0     0     0    4           0       0       1       0       0       0       0        1
Soil Cons/Aff                perseon  ths     S      5     5     5     5     5     0   30           2       2       2       2       2       2        0       9
Ranseland Rehab              personm  ths     S      S     5     5     5     5     0   30           2       2       2       2       2       2        0       9
Sub-Total                                                                                            3       3       4       3       3       3        0      19
S. Overseas Traininr
Study tours                  person m'ths    12    12   12   12    12        0     0    60      .121      121     121     121     121       0       0     607
Short Term Fellowship        peraonm  ths     6    18    18    6       0     0    0    48          49     146     146      49       0       0        0     388
_NAe  ntof Oiseas Trng 2Per nnun               1     1     1     1     1    0   0        5         42      42      42      42      42       0        0     212
. ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  ...... ....... .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  ............................ ...
SubrTotal                                                                                          212     310     310    212      164       0        0    1208
C. Infrastructure
Nursery Office/Store         .2               50    75     0     0     0     0     0   125         15      23       0       0       0       0        0      38
NurserySheds                 .2             200   100      0    0      0     0     0   300         12       6       0       0       0       0        0      18 i
Nursery Housing l00r2        no.               3     3     0     0     0     0     0    6         103     103       0       0       0       0        0     206
Research O/S Offfce/Store    .2                0    80    80    0      0     0     0   160          0      24      24       0       0       0        0      49
Sub-Totat                                                                                          130     156      24       0       0       0        0     311
0. Plant and Equipment
BulIdoters 160-180 HP        no.              S      5     0     0     0     0     0    10       1507    1507       0       0       0       0       0    3014
Sultdoters 120-140 HP        no.              5      4     0     0     0     0     0    9         900     720       0       0       0       0       0    1621
Tractor 4WO 100-120 HP       no.              6      0     0     0     0     0     0    6         607       0       0       0       0       0       0    607
Caravans                     no.              6     0      0     0     0     0     0     6         97       0       0       0       0       0       0      97
Rippers RN 3 Tfne (CBdz)     no.              8     8     3      0     0     0     0    19         32      32      12       0       0       0       0      77
TippIng Trafler Hydroullc    no.              0     6     0      0     0     0     0     6          0      36       0       0       0       0       0      36
Plow 3 disc RN               no.              6     0      0     0     0     0     0     6          7       0       0       0       0       0       0       7
Harrows disc                 no.              6     0     0      0     0     0     0     6         12       0       0       0       0       0       0      12
Root Cutters TD              no.              6     0     0      0     0     0     0     6          4       0       0       0       0       0       0       4
Seedbed formers To           no.              6     0     0      0     0     0    0      6          4       0       0       0       0       0       0       4
Seeders tractor drawer       no.              6     0     0      0     0     0     0     6          4       0       0       0       0       0       0       4
Nursery water system         no.              6     0      0     0     0     0     0     6         61       0       0       0       0       0       0      61
Research/Survey/Draw. Eq.    sun                       -     -     -        -     -                33       6      11       6       0       0       0      56
Computers,software & Trng    no.              10    0      0     0     0     0     0    10         40       0       0       0       0       0       0      40
Later & Oot NatrixPrinter    no.              1    3      0      0     0     0     0     4          3       9       0       0       0       0       0      12
Photo copy                   no.              2      1    0      0     0     0     0     3          6       3       0       0       0       0       0       9
Sase Radio Units             no.              0      0     3     0     0     0     0    3           0       0      10       0       0       0       0       IC0Q
Mobile Radios                no.              0      0    3      0     0     0     0     3          0       0       7       0       0       0       0       7J
Oesk Top Caputer  Trng       no.              15     0     0     0     0     0     0    15         76       0       0       0       0       0       0      76 
Misc. Office Eg.             no.              3      0     0     0     0     0     0     3         15       0       0       0       0       0       0      15is
Sub-Total                                                                                         3409    2314      40       6       0       0       0    569  -h
0



E. Vehicles
4sD TC PU                     no.              9     0     3      0     0     0     0    12         180       0      60       0       0       0        0     240
Saalt 4WD PU                 no.               6     0     0      0     0     0     0     6         97        0       0       0       0       0        0      97
21D SW                        no.              3     0     0      0     0     0     0     3         67        0       0       0       0       0        0      67
Tfpper Truck 3-5 Ton          no.              3     3      0     0     0     0     0     6         152     152       0       0       0        0       0     303
Truck iO Ton                  no.              3     3      0     0     0     0     0     6         303     303       0       0       0        0       0     607
Mobile repair vehfcle         no.              6     0      0     0     0     0     0     6         303       0       0       0       0        0       0     303
.......    ......... .......    .......... .......    .......... .......    .............. ................................
Sb-Total                                                                                            1103     455      60       0       0        0       0    1618
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     4858    3238     438     221      167       3       0   8925
11. RECURRENT COSTS
........ .......... ...
A. Veh. Oper. S  of Inv.           su                     -           -     -     -                        0     184     272     282      282     282     282    1585
B. Office Supply                   sum                          -        -     -         -                15      15      15      15       15      15      15     106
Total RECUWRRENT COSTS                                                                                       15     199     287     297      297     297     297    1691
5====1S9 __=5=S === =    5=a===Z=  8== =  S5======       58S==* =
Total                                                                                                   4873    3437     726     518     464      300     297   10617    F-
<1> Dozer costs include 20% spares & angle blase                                                                                                                             0
2, Management fee for handling overseas training at 13X total costs.
- Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:26
00
'0
0P
CO.
0



Turkey
Vatershed Rehabititation Project
Eastern Anatotia
Table 112. TEDOE/tUGI: Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Affatrs
straenthening feltd Services
Detalled Cost Table
neooo
ouaneity                                                     sase Costs in USSOCO
Unit      1993     1994     1995    1996      1997    1998    1999    Total        1993   1994  1995   1996  1997  1998
............................................................ ............  .......................................................................................  
1. INhESTHEXt COSTS
...;.............
A. Aoric. Plant Epip.& Hat.
Swep Tined Cultivator        no.                 7        0        0        0        0        0        0        714              0      0      0      0      0
Sweep Footed rillt           no.                 7        0        0        0        0        0        0        7        28      0      0      0      0      0
tOO HP Tractor               no.                 3        0        0        0        0        0        0        3       121      0      0      0      0      0
Tractor traoler              no.                 3        0        0        0        0        0        0        3        12      0      0      0      0      0
Nolediggr                   no.                 3        3        3        0        0        0        0        9         1      1      1      0      0      0
Extension - Elatg            set                 3        0        0        0        0        0        0        3        24      0      0      0      0      0
Village gain auges           no.                18       27       27       36       36       18        0      162         0      0      0      0      0      0
Deonstration Equlpment 491  no.                  6        9        9       12       12        6        .0      S4        24    36    36    49    49    24
Sub-Total                                                                                                                225    38    38    49    49    24
S. Agric. Overeas S/Tours         personm  ths        4        4        0        4        0        0        0       12        40    40       0    40       0      0
C. Rangeland Plant Nat. & Eq
Rear  ounted Fert. Spread    no.                 3        3        0        0        0        0        0        6        15    15       0      0      0      0
Ran8eland Sod Seedwr         no.                 6        6        6        0        0        0        0       18        42    42    42        0      0      0     F
and Cranked Seeders          ro.               100       16       16       17       17       17        0      183         7      I      1      I      I      1 I
Sub-Total                                                                                                                 64     58    44       1      1      1      I
D. Range Overseas S/Tours         personm  ths        8        8        8        0        0        0        0       23        76    76    76        0      0      0
E. Desk TopoPrIntwr+Trng          no.                 6        0        0        0        0        0        1        6        41      0      0      0      0      0
F. Vehicles
Elazg Demonstratlon PU       no.                 3        0        0        0        0        0        0        3        60      0      0      0      0      0
Ptwaning Team S              no.                 3        0        0        0        0        0        0        3        6S      0      0      0      0      0
Adaptive ResearciDemo PU    no.                  6        0        0        0        0        0        0        6       120      0      0      0      0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                                                246      0      0      0      0      0
G. Equlpmnt for gnetic  lp 43   no.                   0        6        9       12       12        6        0       45         0    30    46    61    61    30
total tNESTNENT COSTS                                                                                                           692    243   203   151   111    56
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incrementt Extension cost 44  unit             16663    26242    27752   36067   35829   20304        1532   164389        51    80    84    109    109    d2
B. Incrtt demonstration cost *5   unit               60      108      117      147      156       96       18      702         6     11    12    1S    16    10
C. Adaptive Research '6           Per Aunr           *        -        -        -                 -                 -         12    12    12    12    12    12
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                            69    103    10    136   137    63
M   _   _        =     9
Total                                                                                                                        761    345   311    288   247    139 
41) Demonetratfon equipments Noisture _wters, scales, measurfn tapes etc
3b Equipment for Al or Butt centre.lnproved animals:Buits,Rams Unit costMSk                                                                                               IX
44  $ per ha. rense and agricultural treatments:fuet,per diem,office supply                                                                                              ol00
45  $100 per ha of demonstrations for fuel,per,diem, & other overheads.
46 Costs of research staff:travet,per diems analyses,supplies,workshops etc                                                                                             0
* Vatues scaled by 1000.0 14/11 tY92 13:46



Turkey
Uatershed Rehabititation Project
Eastern Anatolla
Table 113. KHGM
Strengthening Field Services
Detailed Cost Table
LOOO
Quantity                                           Base Costs In US$000
Unit   1993         1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total        1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
................................................     ..............................................................................................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Plant Equlp. & Materials
Tractor (100 UP)             no.               3     3      0     0     0     0      0     6        121    121      0      0       0      0      0    243
Caravan                      no.               3     3      0     0     0      0     0     6        49      49      0      0       0      0      0      97
Survey Equipment             sum               3     3      0     0     0     0      0     6        162    162      0      0       0      0      0    324
Laboratory Equipment         suM               3     3      0     0     0      0     0     6        35      35      0      0       0      0      0      70
Desk top Computer/trng       no.               3     0      0     0     0      0     0     3         14      0      0       0      0      0      0      14
Lap Top Computer/trng        no.               3     0      0     0     0     0      0     3         12      0      0      0       0      0      0      12
Dot matrix Printer(wide)    no.                3     0      0     0     0      0     0     3          7      0      0       0      0      0      0       7
Sub-Total                                                                                            400    367      0       0      0      0       0    767
B. Overseas Studies               person moths      8      4     4     0      0     0     0    16        121     61     61       0      0      0       0    243
C. Veh. 4ID PU                    no.               6      0     0     0      0     0     0     6        120      0      0       0      0       0      0    120
......    ... . .. ...... ......... ......    ......... ......    ........ ............ ..... ............
Total I M  STMENT COSTS                                                                                     641    428      61      0      0       0      0   1130
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Veh. Oper. Costs 15  1          sum              -                                                          -  -  -  -  0   18  a  18  18   18     18    108
8. Offfce Supply                                   -0                                                             0      0       0      0       0      0      0
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                         0      18     18     18     18      18     18    108
o    mu u=      Wl==  S03U     3  U==    U 3UU3= non=
Total                                                                                                    641    446     79      18     18      18     18   1238
*c1  Vehicle runming cot a IS1  purchase cost
Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12V1992  13:25
IZ0P
0
KmC
0



Turkey
Vaterwd tehabilitation ProJect
Eatern Anatolia
Table 121. 8oll Cornetlon Affortotion, HOF.
Terrac'getree edig pantgoacorn  fodder s,] & fert brdest
Dotailed Cost Table
TL0ON
Quentfty                                                 so  Costs In 06000
Unit     t993    194    199f    1996    199T   19968    999  Total         1993  1996   1995  1996   1997  1998  1999  Total
1. IMSTET COsTS
.......f r.........
A. Planting ateriat 4>
Seedting Trees  r            ha h  1100       0    10      2200    220    1100        0   10000        48    74    74    96        96    468      0   435
seedlIng res Yr2             h        0    1100    1700    170 22Q0   2200  1100   10000                0     16    24      24    31      31    16   142
Acos Include Replts          ha    1100    1700    1700   2200    2200    1700,           10600        10    1S       5     20    20       15     0    97
tly leedins Trem  Vrl    he          23      23      23      23      23      23       0     138         3      3      3      3      3      3      0    20
Gutly sedlir    Tres lr2    ha        0      23      23      23      23      23      23     138         0      1      1       1      1      I      I     5
Sub-Total                                                                                               61    109    118    144    151    99    16   698
U. Site Pre aratin 03,
Nahcing Irnuts                    lO1    1700    1700   2200    2200    1100         0   10000       224   346   346   447         47    224     0   203
Nsl Labour                         1100    1700    1700    2200    2200    1100       0   10000       223   344   344    "S ,,4S    223           0   2023
Sub-Total                                                                                              446   690   690    692   692    446         0  4056
C. fdcr Spesls Seed Yr14 Q        ha    1100    700    1700    2200   2200    1100         0   10000*       41    64      64     82     82    41       0    374
0. Fertil.uAP yl (100 kg/ha)      ha    1100    1700    1700    2200   220    1100         0   10000        71    110   110    142    142    71         0   67
E. Cat fertilts OAP S0gtree       ha      23      23      23      23      23      23       0     138         1      1      1       1      1      1      0     9
f. Mandtools &  ags               ha    1100    1700    1700   2200    2200    1100        0   10000         6      9      9     11    11       6      0     S1
6. Labour terraces and Gully
Planting Irn                 ha    1100    1700    1700   2200    2200    1100        0   10000        71    110    110   142    142    71        0   647
Survey                       ha    1100    1700    1700    2200    2200    1100       0 1o0 o           3      5      S      7       7      3     0    30       F
Mafntenane terraes Yr2       ha       0    1100    1700    1700   2200   2200    1100   10000           0      0      0       0      0      0      0     0
Replant terrces Tr2          ha       0    1100    1700    1700   2200   2200    1100   10000           0      0      0      0      0       0     0      0
Soain A4erns Yrt             ha    1100    1700    1700   2200   2200    1100         0   10000        43     67    67    87    87        43      0   395
Replating Yr2                ha       0    1100    1700    1700   2200   2200    1100   10000           0     11    17       17    22    22    11   101
Maintenance Tr2              ha       0    1100    1700    1700   2200   2200    1100 1o00              0     U      22    22      29    29    14   132
ully Ceck dem/ha             ha      23      23      23      23      23      23       0     138         2      2      2      2      2      2      0      11
Gully Plantitng Yra          ha      23      23      23      23      23      23       0     138         1      1      I      1       1      1     0      9
Gully Reptantngirasint y2    ha       0      23      23      23      23      23      23     138         0      0      0      0      0      0      0      2
Gully Halntenance Yr2        ba       0      23      23      23      23      23      23     138         0      1      1      1      1      1      1      4
Gully R. Oeek DMs            ha      23      23      23      23      23      23       0     138        11    11    11    11    11    11           0     68
Podder 8 walng Tnt           ha   4000   6200    7000   6000    6100   9000           0   42300        SS    85    96    109   111    123         0   578
... ...... .i  .-...    i... .... ....... .... ........ ......  ............ ........ ........
Sub-Total                                                                                              187   300    3       401   414   308    27  1977
U. Transport
Transport tYr                ha    1100    1700    1700    2200   2200    1100        0   10000        17    26      26    33      33     17      0    152
Tranrspot Yr2                ha       0    1100    1700    1700   2200   2200    1100   10000           0     11    17    17    22    22    11   101
Sub-Total                                                                                               17    37    4        S1     56     39    11   253
t. Fenoing                        ha    1100    1700    1700    2200   2200    1100        0 10000          22    34    34       45     45    22       0    202
J. 6uarding
Full Cost                    ha    1100    2800    4000    5000    6100   5500    3300   27800         18    45      65     81    99    89    53   4SO
Half cost                    ha       0       0       0    1100   2800   4500   670015100               0      0      0      9     23    36    54    122
........ .......... ...... ......; ......; .....    
Sub-Total                                                                                               18    45    65       90    121    125    108  s57
total tNVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                          1   1408   1466   i859   1916   1159   162  8840
total                                                                                                      871   1408   1466   1859  1916   1159    162  8840        0
0* Machine costs exclude capital depreciation of S22.90/hr                                                                                                              u
2> Sanfoin(TL3000/kg),grass(TL40Ooo/kg)*vetch(TL6oo/kg)seedjixa $37.0/ha                                                                                                °
'3> InPut quantities can be found in the Forestry Working papers.
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:25



Turkey
Watershed Rebabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 123. Conifer Plantations, MOF.
Detalted Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                                 ease costs in US$000
Unit    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   1999  Total         1993  199t   1995  1996   1997  1998   1999 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
,.........     .
A. Site Preparation <2;
By Machine c1>            ha    550    800       800    1100    1100    550        0    4900        34     so    50    69    69    34          0   307
By Hand                   ha    550    800       800    1100    1100    550        0    4900       116   168   168   231    231    116         0   1031
Seedling Cost Yri         ha    550    800       800    1100    1100    550        0    4900        67    97    97   134    134    67          0   595
Seedling Cost Yr2         ha       0     550     800     800    1100    1100    550    4900          0     17    24    24    33    33         17   149
Fertilizer NP             ha    550      800     800    1100    1100    550        0    4900        15    22    22    30    30         15      0    134
Nandtools & Sags          ha    550      800     800    1100    1100    550        0   4900          3      4      4      6      6      3      0     25
Transport Yri             ha     550    800      800    1100    1100    550        0    4900         8     12    12    17       17      8      0    74
Transport Yr2             ha       0     550     800     800    1100    1100    550   4900           0      6      8      8     11    11       6    50
Access Roads/Tracks       ha    550      800     800    1100    1100    550        0   4900    .  24       35    35    48       48     24      0    213
Guarding                  ha    550    1350   2150   3250   4350   4900   4900   21450               9     22    35    53       70    79      79   347
Fencing                   ha     550    800      800    1100    1100    550        0    4900        11    16    16    22        22    11       0    99
Sub-Total                                                                                           287   449    472   64i   671   402    102  3024
B. Labour
Survey                    ha     550    800      800    110O    1100    550        0   4900          2      2      2      3      3      2      0     15       4s
Planting Yrl              ha     550     800     800    1100    1100    550        0   4900         89    130   130    179    179    89        0    797
Planting Yr2              ha       0     550    800      800    1100    1100    550    4900          0     18    26      26     36    36      18   159
Maintenance Yr2           ha       0    550      800     800    1100    1100    550   4900           0    45    65    65        89    89    45   397
Sub-Totat                                                                                            91   195   223   273    307   216    62   1367
Total ItVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     378   644   695   914   978   618    164  4390
r==uM= V===== =2===3 ===== a==== ==g= ===  *==
Total                                                                                                   378   644   695    914    978   618    164  4390
01 Unit cost assAmes 70% area (30X slope) Is mechanically prepared
'2> Input quantities can be found in the Forestry Working Papers.
- Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:25
00
W 0O



Turkey
Watershed RehabfiLtatfon ProJect
Eastern Anatolia
Table 124. Oak Coppice Rehabilitation, MOF.
Aged/degraded oak stands rehab'd'bare areas sown with acorns
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                                Base Costs in US$000
Unit    1993   1994   1995    1996   1997   1998   1999  Total            1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
...........__ ............,_...................................... ........................  ..................................... .................................. __...... _
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
... .. ..................._
A. Oak,current 50-70% cover <1>
Acorns Yr1                   ha   2000   3000   3000   3900    3900   2000           0   17800        83   124   124   '62   162    83           0   738
Acorns Yr2                   ha       0   2000   3000    3000   3900   3900   2000   17800             0    22    33    33    43    43    22   198
Handtools & Bags             ha    2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000           0   17800        10    15    15    20    20    10           0    90
Rehabilitation Cutting       ha   2000   3000   3000   3900    3900   2000           0   17800       326   489   489   635    635   326          0   2899
Sowing Acorns Yrl            ha   2000   3000   3000    3900    3900   2000          0   17800       129   194   194   252    252   129          0   1152
Maintenance Yr2              ha       0   2000   3000    3000    3900   3900   2000   17800            0    81   121   121   158   158    81    720
Labour Replants Yr2          ha       0    2000   3000    3000    3900   3900   2000   17800           0    40    61    61        79    79    40   360
Transport Yrl                ha   2000   3000   3000    3900   3900   2000   2000  19800             121   182   182   237   237   121   121  1202
Transport Yr2                ha       0   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000   17800              0    40    61    61        79    79    40   360
Access Roads/Tracks          ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000            0   17800        87   130   130    170    170    87         0   774
fencing                      ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000            0   17800        40    61    61    79    79    40           0   364      a
Guarding Full Cost (5yrs)    ha   2000   5000   8000   9900   10800   9800   5900  51400              32    81   129   160    175   159    95   832
Guarding Half Cost           ha       0       0      0   2000   5000   8000   11900  26900             0      0      0     16    40    65    96   218    F
Sub-Totat                                                                                             829  1461   1601   2007  2129  1379   497  9904          1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                       829  1461  1601   2007  2129   1379   497  9904
=Y=== ====------ ----- ----  ==w=-= ===, a=== O==# 
Total                                                                                                     829  1461   1601  2007  2129  1379   497  9904
'1 Input quantities/ha can be found in Forestry Working Papers.
- Values scated by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:25
ICa
0
h



Turkey
watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 125. Rangeland Rehabilitation, NOF
Detalled Cost Tabte
TLOOO
Ouantity                                                Bs Costs In USSO00
Unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total             1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
........ ............... ... .. . ..... _... _....._,  __...... _. ._... ... ,..   ...............................
1. INVESTMET COSTS
................ ................ 
A. Fedder Sp. Seed
Vetch (25 kg/ha.)       ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000             0   17800        42    64    64    83    83    42          0   378
Sanfoin (50kg/ha.)      ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000             0   17800        36    55    55    71    71    36          0   324
Grass (1Okg/ha a $5/kg) ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   390C   2000             0   17800       101   152   152   197   197   101          0   900
FertilizeOAP YrI tOOkg/haha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000            0   17800       93    140   140   181   181    93          0   828
Handtoots & Sags        ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000             0   17800        10    15    15    20    20    10          0    90
Labour Seedling/Fert. Irlha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000            0   17800        20    30    30    39    39    20          0    180
Transport Yr1           ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000             0 17800          30    46    46    59    59    30          0   270
Transport Yr2           ha       0   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000  17800                0     20    30    30    39    39    20   180
Access - Tracks Yrl      ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   2000            0   17800        59    88    88    114   114    59         0   522
Fenming                 ha   2000   3000   3000   3900   3900   3000             0   18800       40    61    61       79    79    61        0   380
Guarding Full Cost      ha   2000   5000   8000   9900   10800   9800   5900  51400               18    46    73    90    98    89    54   46B
Guarding Nalf Cost      ha       0       0   2000   5000   8000   11900  15800  42700              0     0    10    25    40    60    80   216
Suk-Totat                                                                                         451    715   763   990  1022   642    154  4737
B. Gully Revegetation
Gully Seedlings Yrl     ha      27      40      40      53      53      27       0    240          4     6      6      8      8      4      0    35
Gully Seedlings Yr2     ha       0       7      10      1O      13      13       7      60         0      0     0      0      0      0      0      2
Gutly Planting Yrt      ha      27      40      40      53      53      27       0    240          2      3     3      3      3      2      0    16
Fertiizer DAP           ha      27      40      40      53      53      27       0    240          1     2      2      2      2      1      0     11
Gully Maint./Replant Yr2 ha      0      27      40      40      53      53      27    240          0      1     2      2      3      3      1    12
Labour Check Das        ha      27      40      40      53      53      27       0    240          2      3     3      4      4      2      0    20
Sub-Totat                                                                                           9     15    16    20    21    12         2    95
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                   460   730   7Z9  1010  1043   654    155  4832
anU ==        3     == =    3CZ      *=OCU  n-    -, 
Total                                                                                                 460    30   779  1010  1043   654   155  4832
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:25
I-tb
Q
0



Turkey
Uatershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 126. fueltood Coppice Plantation
Detalted Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                                  Base Costs in US$O0O
Unit     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   Total        1M93   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
......  ............................................................. ............. ...........................  ........................................................
1. INVUSTNENT COSTS
............. .............. .
A. Site Preparation 01:
By hachine                 ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800        82    125    125    t63    163      82      0    740
By Hand                    ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800       274    421    421    547   547   274         0   2483
Survey                     ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800         4      6       6      8      8      4      0      36
Planting Yrt               ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800       170    261    261    339   339    170        0   1540
Replanting Yr2             ha       0    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300   11800           0     63      97     97    126    126     63    573
Seedling Cost ti;          ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800        79    121    121    158    158      79      0    716
Acrns Costs Yrl            ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         011800           18     28      28     37     37     18      0    167
Seedlino Costs Vr2         ha       0    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300   11800           0      18     28     28     37     37      18    167
Acorns Costs Yr2           ha       0    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300   11800           0      4       6      6      8      8      4      36
Nafntenance fr2            ha       0    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300   11800           0     63      97     97  126    126       63    S73
Handtootsg Sags            ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800         7      10     10     13     13      7      0      60
Transport Yr1              ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800        20     30      30     39     39     20      0    179       1
Transport Yr2             ha        0    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300   11800           0     13      20     20     26     26     13    119
Fencing                   ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2601    1300          0   11800        26     40     40      53     53     26      0    239      H
Guarding fult Cost         ha    1300    3300    5300    6600    7200    6500    3900   34100          21     53      86    107    117   105      63    552      -4
Ouarding Half Cost         ha       0       0        0    1300    3300    5300    7900   17800          0      0       0     11     27     43     64    144 
Access Roads/Tracks        ha    1300    2000    2000    2600    2600    1300         0   11800        57     87      87    113    113     57      0    513
Sukb-Total                                                                                             756   1346   1466   1836   t937   1207    289   8837
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                         756   1346   1466   1836   1937   1207    289   B837
Totat                                                                                                      756   1346   1466   1836   1937   1207    289   8837
41D input quantfties/ha. for atl forestry Interventions see Working Papers.
- Valtue scated by 1000.0 14/1211992 13:25
0I
o0
0
t1F
w~
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
table 127. Range Management & Fertifisation(Treasury Land).TEDGEW/TUGEM
Fertilizer is broadcast (existing seed population adequate).
Oetailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                                Base Costs in US$OO0
Unit    1993   1994   1995    1996   1997   1998    1999  Total           1993   1994  1995   1996  1997  1998  1999 Totat
..._.................................._..............................   ..... ..........  ,...----------...------...----_.--....--------_-----..---_...-------...------.....
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
..... ....... _.....
A. Fertilizer
DAP R'ld 100kg/ha            ha    2223   3333    3333   4444   4444    2223         0  20000         52    78    78   103   103    52           0    465
TSP R'ld 100kg/ha            ha     600    1200    1900    1900   2500    1900       0   10000         9     18    29    29    38    29          0    152
OAP M'ld 250 kg/ha           ha      15      30      47      48     62      48       0    250          1      2      3      3      3      3      0     14
TSP H ld tSO kg/ha           ha      15     30      47      48      62      48       0    250          0      1      1      1      1      1      0      6
Sub-Total                                                                                              62    98    110   136   146    84          0   637
8. Tractor/Fertilizer             ha    2823   4533    5233   6344   6944    4123         0  30000.         1      2      2      3      3      2      0     12
C. Labour (farmer contribut) c2P
Rangeland .S pd/ha           ha   2820   4530    5230   6340   6940    5230          0  31090          0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Meadow land 6 pd/ha          ha      30      60      95      95    125       95      0     500         0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                               0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
D. Ripping                        ha    450    900    1425    1425   1875    1425          0   7500         6     11    18    18    23        18      0     93
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        69   t11    130   156   172   104          0    741
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Fertilizer
DAP RIld Yr3 100 kg/ha       ha       0       0    2820   4530   5230   6340    6940  25860            0      0    66    105   122   148   161   602
DAP Rld Tr6 tOO kg/ha        ha       0       0       0       0       0    2820   4530   7350          0      0      0      0      0    66   105   171
DAP M'ld 250 kg/ha           ha       0      15      45      92     140    202    250    744           0      1      3      5      8     11    14    41
TSP M'ld t50 kg/ha           ha       5      15      45     92      140    202    250    749           0      0      1      2      3      5      6     17
Sub-TotaL                                                                                               0      1    69    113   133   229   287   831
S. Tractor/Fertilizer             ha       0    2823    7356   12589  18933  25877  30000  97578            0      1      3      5      8     10    12    39
C. Labour(farmer contribut) c3>
Rangetand 0.75 pd            ha       0    2823    7356   12589  18933  25877  30000  97578            0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Meadow Land 6 pd             ha       0      30      90     185    280    405       500    1490        0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                               0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
D. Transport  lld                 ha       0      30      90     185    280    405      500    1490         0      1      4      7    11    16    20    60
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                          0      4     76    125   152   256   319    931 
------ ------ ------ -.==   -.=. ...    ..~ .==
Total                                                                                                      69    115   206   281   324   360   319   1673CQ
41e Rec costs(Except labor) paid by project because new technical concept.                                                                                         - X
<b  Farmers invest labour worth:S5.3/ha rangeland; p48/ha on meadowland.                                                                                           4 oo
<3) Recurrent labour input from farmers:$3.33/ha rangeland;$30/ha meadowland                                                                                      O
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:25
C)



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 128. Rangeland Seed and Fertilizer,(TEDGEM/TUGEM) Treasury Lands.
(1)Manage, fertillse & seed   (2)Range Mangement atone <4>
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                                Base Costs In USS000
Unit    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997   1998    1999  Total          1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999 Total
... .. _.... ...... ........ ............... ... .... ...... ........ .. ...  -----------------  ------------------------
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Fertilizer 2?
DAP 100 kg/ha                ha    2223    3333    3333   4444   4b44    2223         0   20000        52    78    78    103   103    52         0   465
TSP 100 kg/ha                ha   2223    3333    3333   4444   4444    2223          0   20000       34    51    51    67    67    34           0   303
Sub-Totat                                                                                              85    128    128   171   171    85         0   769
S. Range Management Alone 3>      ha       0   6500    9775   9775   13050   13050    6500  58650           0     66    99    99   132    132    66   593
C. Tractor/Fertilizer             ha    2223   3333    3333   4444   4444    2223          0   20000         1      1      1     2      2      1      0      8
0. Farmer contrf:LaborSt2/ha      ha    2223   3333    3333   4444   4444   2223           0  20000.         0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0
E. Seed
Altfalf  10 kg/ha            ha   2223   3333    3333   4444   4444   2223            0  20000         26    39    39    51    51    26          0   231
Sanfoln 50 kg/ha             ha   2223   3333    3333   4444   4444    2223           020000          32    48    48    64    64         32      0    289
Seed Pelleting               ha   2223   3333    3333   4444   4444    2223           0   20000       45    67    67    90    90    45           0    405
Sub-Total                                                                                             103    154   154   206   206    103         a   925      F
F. Ripping <1>                    ha     556    833      833    1111   1111      556       0    5000        9      13    13    18    18        9      0    81
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        198   363   396   495   528   330    66   2376
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Fertilizer
DAP Tr3 100 kg/ha            ha       0       0       0    2223   3333   3333    4444   13333          0      0      0     52    78    78   103   310
DAP Yr6 tOO kgha             ha       0       0       0       0       0    2223   3333    5556         0      0      0      0      0     52    78   129
Sub-Total                                                                                               0      0      0     52    78   129   181   434
S. Farmer lab contr:$8.33/ha      ha    2223   3333    3333   4444   4444   2223           0   20000        0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                          0      0      0    52    78   129   181    U39
Total                                                                                                     198   363    396   547   606   459   247  2816
<1> Ripping only on a quarter total area.
t23 tnput costs incurred because It Is treasury land
<3> Cost of deuarcatlon, occasional fencing, assigmsent certificates etc.
4> RANGE MANAGEMENT ALONE:SEPARATE TREATMENT,LOW COST. VILLAGE SUPPORT
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:25
0
C0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilftation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 129. Improved ageranomic peakages (TEDGEM/TUGEN)
tIproved Varieties S Management
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Chuantfty .XBase Costs in US$000
unit     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   Total        1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
................................................................   ................................................................................................,__
I. INVESTHEMT COSTS
................
A. tIproved Irputs/Practice
Iiproved Cultivars            ha    1296    1944    1944    2593    2593    1297          0   11667       47 1         71    94    9447          0   425
fertitizer DAP                ha    1296    1944    1944    2593    2593    1297          0   11667        28    42    42    57    57    28      0   255
Fertilizer ammn. nitrate    ha    1296    1944    1944    2593    2593    1297            0   11667        25    38    38    50    50    25      0   227
Farmer Labour 41>             ha    1296    1944    1944    2593    2593    1297          0   11667         0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0
5ub-Totat                                                                                                  101   151   151   202   202   101      0   907
Total INVESTENXT COSTS                                                                                            101   151   151   202   202   101       0   907
Total                                                                                                          101   151   151   202   202   101       0   907
,1> Farmer provides labor free; receives inputs from project as Incentive.
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:24
0
IPU
2:
oo0
0 



Turkey
Vatershed RehabiLitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 130. Fallow Reduction (CEDG0M/TUMEN) by legumes & forage prodn.
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
auantity                                                  8ase Costs in 115,OO0
Unit     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   Total        1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
........ ............. ...
A. Incremental Inputs
Seedw 1>                  ha    1680    2520    2520    3360    3360    2520         0   15960         86    128    128    171    171    128       0    814
Fertilizer <2'            ha    1680    2520    2520    3360    3360    2520         0   15960         65     97     97    129    129      97      0    613
Farmer Labour d32         ha    1680    2520    2520    3360    3360    2520         0   15960          0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                              150    225    225    300    300    225       0   1427
S. Perennial Forage Bank
Seed                       ha    1111    1667    1667    2222    2222    1111         0   10000        39     59     59      79     79     39      0    354
Sowing 4>4                 ha    1l11    1667    1667    2222    2222    1111         0   10000        51     76     76    101    101      51      0    455
Fertiliser DAP            ha    1111    1667    1667    2222    2222    1111         0   10000         26     39     39      52     52     26      0    233
Sub-Total                                                                                              116    174    174    232    232    116       0   1042
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        2      3       399    532    532    341       0   2469
Total                                                                                                      266    399    399    532    532    341        0   2469
>' Seed requirement: 130 kg/ha x 2500 TLA
'2' Fertilizer      : 80 kg/ha DAP x 1540 TL (unsubsidised)
<31 Farmers provide labor (525/ha) but get inputs free from project tst yr.
(4* Sowing: Seedbed prepn. & broadcasting (2 sweeps aTL15000)
- Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:24
0
ICD 
o 1X
0



Turkey
Watershed RehabiIItation Project
Easterm Anatolia
Table 131. Small Scale Irrigation
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Cuantity                                                     Base Costs In US5000
Unit     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   Total        1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1998   1999  Totat
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
........ ........... 
A. Low IerIjatfon Terraces 01>
Construction                 ha      1170    1755    1755    2340    2340    1170       0   10530        966    ;449   1449    1932    1932       966       0   8692
Stane Clearg:farmer contr    ha       54       81      81     108     108      54       0     486           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Sub-Total                                                                                                 966    1449    1449    1932    1932    966         0    8692
S. MInor Irrigation
DOverson CharnelssUknPAC    Km         18      27      27      36      36      18       0     162         36       55      55      73      73      36       0     328
Small hater Basins           no.      30       45      45      60      60      30       0     270         121     182     182     243     243     121       0    1092
Tertimry Canals(8kWN0C)      Km       48       72      72      96      96      48       0    432         340      510     S10    680      680     340       0   3059
Sub-Total                                                                                                 498      747     747    95       995     498       0   4479   F
C. Tractor & Equfpment Yr1 42     ha      1170    1755    1755    2340    2340    1170       0   10530          47      71      71      95      95      47       0    426   r
D. Tractor a Equipment YrZ        ha         0     878    1316    1316    1755    1755     878    7898           0      18      27      27      36      36      18    160   '
E. Labour (for construction) <3   ha      1170    1755    1755    2340    2340    1170       0   10530         11     178     178     237     237     118       0    1065   1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                           1629   2461    2470   3285   3294    1665         18  14822
Total                                                                                                         1629   2461    2470   3285    3294    1665        18  U1422
01> Construction is $816/ha. Stone clearing ($215/ha) done by farmer free
2> Alfalfa-Establish. rostt paid for by project see Table 149
c33 TedgesVtuge. activities costed In table 149
44> See Table 149 for TEDGEM/TUGEN financed establishment costs. for yr 1.
4S Project bears recurrent COsts to year 2
Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12Vt992  t3s24
Is
00a 
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 132. River Sank Protection
Total 140 ha; 70ha village labour, 70 ha MOF
Detalted Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                     Base Costs in USSOOO
Unit   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total     1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. 70  a by POf (Materisl)      ha    10   10   15   15    10    10        0    70        1     1    2      2      1     1    0      7
B. VillagersfNaterial           ha    10   10   15   15   10   10          0    70        0     0     0     0    0      0    0      0
C. Labour 0:#                   ha    10   10   15   15    10   10         0    70        3     3     5     5    3      3     0    22
.....   ...... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    ......... .......................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                       4    4      6     6     4    4      0    29
3==  ==== a-=-=-= ==-==- --== 3--- =13==3e
Total                                                                                     4    4      6     6    4      4     0    29
41> Farner contributs labour half the area(70ha) free,worth another $308/ha
* Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:24
K)
0
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabititation Project
Eastern AnatoLia
Table 133. Rainfed Terraces and Check Structures
KNGM
Detalled Cost Table
TLOOO
Ouantity                                              Base Costs in US$000
------- ----       ===3--=3     33= = = 3                           =    3       ==
Unit   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total        1993   1994   1995   1996   199t   1998   1999  Total
1. *INESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Construct Rainfed Terrace <1   ha      624    936    936   1248   1248    624       0   5616       218    327    327    436    436    218       0   1960
S. Cherk Structures
Plant fnd Equipment          no.   624   936    936   1248   1248    624         0    5616        25     38     38     50     50     25      0    227
Labour (farmer contribut) c1lno.    624    936    936   1248   1248    624       0   5616          0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Sub-Total                                                                                          25     38      38    50     50     25      0    227
Total INMESTMENT COSTS                                                                                   24     365    365    486   486    243        0   2187
Total                                                                                                 243    365    365    486   486    243        0   2187
41) Planting materials provided for 20X of the area by project.See Table 149
b2 Farmer contribution ($20/ha) labor.
- Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:24
0
I.OD
0
I o1
Q



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilftation Project
Eastemn Anatotia
Table 142. ORKOY: Apfculture
TedgeiWTugem
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
9uanttty                                             Sase costs In USS000
Unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999 Totol
1. IMNESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Bee fives 41*               no.       0    180    270    270    360    360    180   1620          0    133    200    200    267    267    133   1200
. S. ar=s '2'                  no.       0    180    270    270    360    360    180   1620          0    200    300    300   400    400    200   1799
C. Equipaent Sots 4&           no.       0    180    270    270    360    360    180   1620          0     78    117    117    155    155     78   700
Total I N  STNEIT COSTS                                                                                 0   411    616    616   822    822   411   3699
mu==   ssss =mm        === ssm  m um Um    C=
Total                                                                                                0    411    616    616    822    822   411   3699
,1U There are 20 beehives per kit.
(2' Twenty swarms per kit
Oil Ore set of equipment per kit. $427, Includes sugar & drugs for first yr.
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:24
0
0 



Turkey
Watershed Rehabititation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 144. Gully Horticulture TEDGEM/TUGEM
Fruit trees and vines in gullies and on slopes.
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                          Base Costs in USS000
Unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    98   1999  Total        1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Fruit Trees in Gullies
Seedlings 1>                  ha    140    108    240    480    864    814       0   2646        25    19    42    85  153   144       0   468
Seedlings Replants 2>         ha      0    140    108    240    480    864        0   1832        0     5     4     8    17   31       0    65
Labour (farmer contribut) 3,ha    140    108    240    480    864    814         0   2646         0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0
Sub-Total                                                                                         25    24    46    93   170   175      0   533
S. Grapevines
Planting SXfarmer contrib  5>ha      50    100    150    200    100       0       0    600        0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0
Deep Ploughing + Cultivat 7>ha       50    100    150    200    100       0       0    600        0     0     0      0     0     0     0     0
Replant Materials             ha      0     50    100    150    200    100        0    600        0     4     8    11    15      8     0    4
Fertiliser 7>                 ha    100    300    600    500    300       0      0 1800           6    19    38    32    19      0     0  115
Grafting plus mterial         ha      0      0     50    100    150    200    100    600          0     0     7    14   21    28    14    85                I
Sub-Total                                                                                          6    23    53    57    56    36    14   245                4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                   31    47    9'   151   225   211    14   7
Total                                                                                                 31    47    99   151   225   211    14   778
'1> Assumes 140 seedlings/ha total cost $175.
<2> 20% replanting requirement Y2
<3> 20 mandays labor planting
<4> Replanting 4 mandays (251)
5> Planting: include marking (50000 TL/ha) holes (60000) rootstock (800000)
<6> Fertiliser: manure+ commercial fertiliser (200000) including labour
T7  Deep ploughing & cultivation is a farmer contribution worth $75/ha.
- Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12/1992 13:24
OD
(b~
0
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitatorn Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 149. Support Activities Budgetted for Table 133&131 TedgerTugem O),
(l)Rainfed Hortic+consv.(2)Irrig.Hort+consv.(3)lrrig.Forage
Detailed Cost Table
7L000
Quantity                                              Base Costs in US$000
Unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total        1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999 Total
.................. ..................................... _  .................................. ............ ................._ 
INVUSTMENT COSTS
................
A. Rainfed Morticulture+Cons <21  Iicrocatchmt    125    187    187    250    250    125         0   1124         22     33     33     45      45     22      0    201
B. Table 131:  Seedlings           no.              234    351    351    468    468    468    234   2574          42     63     63     84     84      84     42    461
C. Table 131 Irrig Alfalfa         ha                 0    878   1316   1316   1755   1755    878   7898           0     45     67     67     90      90     45    404
0. Transport to village            Microcatchmt       6     15     24     36      48     54      0    183          2      6     10     15      19     22      0     74
tal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                               67    147    173    210    238    218      87   1140
m==s ==   m==   ====  em=u  =:U=:= := =uu           :=~
Total                                                                                                             67    147    173    210    238    218      87   1140
I> Costs include both Small Scale Irrig and Rainfed terrace activities
b Plantfng materIals
Values scaled by 1000.0 14/12V1992 13:24
X)
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern Anatolia
Table 151. Trees on Field Boundaries (TEDGEH/TUGEM)
(1)Fruit Trees (2)Pistachio Grafting & Estabtishment
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                        Base Costs in US$000
Unit   1993   1994  1995   1996  1997  1998  1999 Total    1993  1994  1995  1996  1997 1998  1999 Total
................... ..............................................................................--------------------_--------.....-------------_..----.........---............... 
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. Fruit trees on boundaries <1,
Seedlings                   Km    80    80    80        90    90    80    80   580            7    7    7    8    8    7    7  50
SeedLings Replants          Km      0    80    80    80    90    90    90   510               0     1    1      1    2    2    2    9
Sub-Total                                                                                      7    8    8    9    9    8    8   59
S. Pistachio Grafting & Est. <2b
Planting amterial           ha   333    500   500   667   667   333   333  3333              13   20   20   27   27   13   13  135
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                                                               20   28   28   36   36   22   22  194
U #m== =:: U                =:3 = -
Total                                                                                             20   28   28   36   36   22   22  194
1> Fruit trees planted 12m intervals=85 trees/km. Farmer cont.labour$195/km
<2> Farmer contribution $110/ha 
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:24                                                                                                                Co
0
0 o



Turkey
Uatershed Rehabilitation ProJect
Eastern Anatolla
Table 160. Pilot Aerial Seeding I Fertilialrg of Rangelands
(1) Fertilisation; C2) Seeding and fertltteatlon
Detaited Cost Tabte
TL000
Quantity                                         Base Costs in USO$O0
unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  Total      1993  1994  1995  1996  1997 199       9 1999 Total
1. t*IESTIEOT CWTS
A. Aerial FertIlis&tlon only
Flylsn Costs             ha               0   2000   2000   1000       0      0      0 5000          0    20    20    10    0       0     0    S1
DAP fertiliset (OOcke/he)bs                0   1000   1000      0      0      0      0   2000         0    20    20     0     0     0     0  40
TSP fertiliser (looks/l)ha                 0   1000   1000   1000      0      0      0   3000        0    13    13    13      0     0     0    39
Labour                   h                 0   2000   2000   1000      0      0      0   S000        0    10    10      5     0     0     0    26
Sub-Total                                                                                             0    6t    64    28    0       0     0   156
S. Aerial  fertilisation*eeed
Flying costs             ha               0   1000   1000       0      0      0      0   2000   .   0    10    10       0     0     0     0    20
Alfaltf seed (1Ok/b)   ha                 0   1000   1000      0      0      0      0   2000         0    10    10     0     0     0     0    20
Sanfoin seed (50kg/ha)   ha               0   1000   1000       0      0      0      0   2000        0    14    14      0     0     0     0    28
Seed pelleting wlth fert.ha               0   1000   1000       0      0      0      0   2000        0    20    20      0    0      0     0    40
Labour                   ha               0   1000 1000         0      0      0      0   2000        0     5      5     0     0     0     0    10
Sub-Total                                                                                              060    60         0     0     0     0120
Total INWESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        0   124   124    28    0      0     0   276
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Aerlal Fertitfsatlon only
Ftying cost              ha               0       0      0      0 2000   2000   1000   5000          0     0      0     0   20    20    10   51
DAP fertiltseC (lOOkg/ha)ha                0      0      0      0   1000   1000      0   2000         0     0     0     0    21    21     0    41
TSP fertilser (IOOkg/ha)ha                 0      0      0      0   1000   1000   1000  3000          0     0     0     0    13   13   13   40
Labour                   ha                0      0      0      0 2000 2000 1005000                   0     0     0     0    10   10      5    26
Sub-Total                                                                                             0      0     0     0   65    65    29   158
B. Aerial fertilisatfon+seed
Flylng cost              ha               0       0      0      0   1000   1000      0   2000        0     0      0     0    10   10    0    20
Alfalfa                  ha                0      0      0      0   1000   1000      0   2000         0     0     0     0    12    12    0    23
Sanfoin                  ha                0      0      0      0   1000 1000        0   2000         0     0     0     0    15   15      0    30
Seed Pelteting           ha                0      0      0      0 1000   1000        0   2000         0     0     0     0    20   20      0    40
Labour                   Person Days       0      0      0      0   1000   1000      0   2000         0     0     0     0    5      5     0    10
Sub-Total                                                                                              0     0     0     0    62    62     0   i25
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                         0     0     0     0   127   127    29  283        El
Total                                                                                                      0   124   124    28   127   127   29  558
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/1211992  13:24
Wa



Turkey
Watershed RehabilStation Project
Eastern Anatotfa
Table 161. Applied Research
Forestry Research Institute Capital purchase support
Detailed Cost Table
TLOO0
Quantity                                     Base Costs in USS000
Unit  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1999 Total       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Plant and Equipment         unit        -     -     -     -     -         -     -         6     1     2     1     0     0     0    10
B. Computing
PC Desk Top,DN Printer <dlmwit      I     0     0     0     0     0     0     1        5      0     0     0     0     0     0     5
C. Photocopiers                unit            0     0     0     0     0     0      1        5     0     0     0     0     0     0     S
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         16     1    2      1    0      0     0    20
33333 333s3       -sac,3 s=S33   333333
Totat                                                                                       16     1    2      1    0      0     0    20
<1> Inctudes Software and training as part of package. Dot Matrix printer.
- Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:24
0
0     t
Doo
0t
0



Turkey
Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Eastern AnatolIa
Tab(e 162. Demonstrations, Adaptive Research - RangeLand & Agriculture
Materials per demonstration <1>
Detailed Cost Table
TLOOO
Quantity                                     Base Costs in USSOO
====2 5===--S==_==y=-====:_====l===-f-=-=== =-====s ======-   Y Y====  = _*==t
Unit  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 Total
~~~~~~~. .. . .....  _.. ....  _..... . .. . . . . . . .. . . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Rangeland Demonstration <2     ha       18    27    27    36    36    18    0   162          4     5     S     7     7    4      0    33
B. Agrlc. Demonstrations <2>
Early <3i                    ha      42    63    63    84    42      0     0   294         8    13   13    17      8     0     0    59
Subsequent c4                ha       0    18    27    27    36    36    18  162          0     4      5     5     7     7     4    33
Sub-Total                                                                                  8    16   18   2        16     7     4    92
C. Adaptive Research 4S>
Rangeland <6>                unit     0      3     3     3     3     0     0    12        0     6      6     6     6     0     0    24
Agriculture:forage/pulses <7>unit      0     9     9     9     9     0     0   36         0    18    18   18    18       0     0    73
Sub-Total                                                                                  0    24    24    24    24      0     0   97
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            12   46    48    54    47   11       4   222
-=--==      ====-===== ===== n===          -
Total                                                                                          12   46    48    54    47    11      4   222
<1> $200/haseed+fert accdg.to site;Farmer labor($100/ha);FTE cost in Tab 112
<2> Management practices,fertilisation,seeding, to continue for 3-4 years.
'3' Conservn tiltage,peren forage,fattow redn pulses/forage,agron pkgs,irrig
<40 Contin;ed adap res & solns to location specific probs. To be determined.
<S> Cost % 100 materials per experiment;research specialists costs Table 112
<6P Range treatments for diffnt eco conditions:fert,seed,management,species.
7  Forage and pulse crop agronomy,ti((age practices,herbicides,wanagement.
Values scaled by 1000.0  14/12/1992  13:24
I tD p
0
0



- 132 -
ANNEt 9
Page I of 8
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Rate of Return
1.          Economic rates of return in projects of this nature, where the take-
up of improved technologies is very difficult to predict, are best interpreted
as an order of magnitude. On the basis of assumptions considered plausible, the
project has an economic rate of return of 17X.  This is from an incremental
project expenditure of US$97 million excluding price contingencies but including
physical contingencies. Excluded from the analysis, however, are the direct and
associated costs and benefits of training (US$2.7 million), research (US$0.8
million). Further excluded are the Technical Assistance direct costs (US$2.4
million) and half the costs incurred under the Project Preparation Facility (half
US$750,000) which were spent on TA and training. If no exclusions are made the
ERR drops less than one percentage. The analysis is also conservative - it
assumes there is no fall in yield without the project, despite significant
evidence to the contrary.
B. Cost Exclusions
2.          Exclusions may be justified as follows.  Training Costs:  The PCSU
and field services of the ministries associated with the project will contribute
a major role in the training and development of provincial staff where at present
there is a reported annual staff turnover of some 30X. The turnover is in part
due to Government policy of regular relocation and in part due to resignations
because of the difficulties of working in the region. Technical Assistance: The
local and foreign Technical Assistance recruited for the PPF and to the project
have an important role in on-the-job training which, along with the provisions
for additional formal training and study tours, will help to create a cadre of
staff prepared to continue and consolidate activities beyond the investment and
establishment phase of the project. In addition, a considerable reservoir of
expertise will be created on which to draw for future development in the region
and elsewhere.
3.          Research:    The  costs  of  applied  research  have been  omitted
(US$801,000 of which some 75X is for the aerial seeding experiment) because it
is difficult to quantify the benefits which will accrue, yet they are assumed to
be positive. Applied research is an essential element, however, of the project
concept of continuing to identify solutions to the agricultural problems of the
micro catchment. The costs of demonstrations have been included because they
contribute directly to identifiable project benefits.



- 133 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 8
4.          Yields:  These are assumed to remain constant in the without project
situation though a decline would likely occur on much of the more marginal land
which will be rehabilitated under the project. The exception to this assumption
is where in the absence of the project, the oak coppices are projected to last
only ten years.
C. Economic and Financial Considerations
5.          The economic rate of return calculation excludes price contingencies
and is worked using the base costs plus physical contingencies less taxes and the
exclusions stated above. The opportunity cost of the capital applied to the
project is assumed to be 10X.
6.          Labor.  The project development activities will increase localized
demand for labor and thus formal employment of daily wage labor by the project
has been priced to reflect recent (July 1992) increases in the statutory wage
rates which now range between US$9.50-US$12.00 or US$4.50-US$6.00 per day net of
taxes. At the same time it is assumed that farmers benefitting from project
interventions will provide labor free of charge as part of the investment and
establishment costs though this is costed in the economic analysis. This means
that a quarter of total project costs go to the payment of hired labor. To
calculate the ERR, farm labor has been priced according to its estimated marginal
value (US$2.50 per day) with variation to reflect the seasonal fluctuation which
peaks (US$5.00 per day) during harvest.
7.          Pricing.  The Turkish Lira is freely convertible and there are no
major trade restrictions on agricultural goods to deflect market prices widely
from border economic values. Where fiscal measures are applied to imports (e.g.
vehicles and equipment) or goods (VAT) the economic analysis has deducted such
transfers from the costs. Wheat producers benefit from a floor price in Turkey
which is approximately 50 higher than the import parity price of (US$110) as
estimated by TMO. Fertilizer is produced locally at a cost competitive with
import parity and for the ERR it has been priced accordingly (US$198 per ton for
DAP and US$132 per ton for TSP); the consumer benefits from some 47X subsidy on
the factory gate price.  The valuation of fuelwood is at the current market
prices; it is freely traded and achieves a price per cubic meter of US$20-US$60
depending on type/quality.   Other timber outputs have been valued at market
prices:   sawlogs US$87/m3; peeler logs US$116/m3; poles US$151/m3.   Fodder
currently achieves a price equivalent to $70/tonne DM regardless of the quality,
but as the project progresses and improved fodder species are introduced, it is
likely that differentials will emerge. However, for the purposes of the economic
analysis a uniform price of $70/tonne is assumed.
8.          Cost Reduction and Cost Sharing. Cost reduction and cost sharing are
achieved where the participants at village level provide labor free of charge;
substantial project cost savings have been achieved where it has been agreed that
the farmer should provide his labor at no charge. In some cases though, largely
where labor is part of construction activities, savings are precluded by
government regulations or the strength of the local labor unions, which stipulate
the payment rates and labor component for various activities. There is scope for



- 134 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 8
negotiation and any resultant reduction in unit costs would allow the savings to
be spent elsewhere and hence permit a wider coverage by the project and hence
achieve greater benefits.   This approach also coincides with the project
philosophy of greater participation by the beneficiaries. For example, where at
present the MOF has a policy of paying forest guarding costs indefinitely, it has
been agreed that these costs will be phased out over a seven year period to be
replaced by "self-policing" which is effectively zero cost to the project.
9.          Where the project expects  to introduce technology new to the
villagers, such as improved range management, the project will bear all costs
during the investment establishment phase, effectively treating the activities
as large scale demonstrations. Earlier direct participation and cost sharing by
the villagers would reduce overall costs, releasing the cash for alternative use.
Management should constantly review treatments in terms of the allocation of
project funds and encourage the early handover of responsibilities where
appropriate in order to save costs and promote cost sharing.
D. Technology and Adoption Rates
10.         The technology packages (menu of treatments) on offer by the project
are, by and large, proven to be technically sound and environmentally sustainable
either in Turkey or in an environment similar to that of the project area.
Demonstrations of improved promotion and management techniques will be mounted
in each microcatchment selected for project activities. The underlying principle
of the project is one of active participation by the villagers who then decide
which treatments they wish to adopt.
11.         During the process of consultation they will be offered a "menu" of
possibilities which will comprise various treatments some of which will be
conditional on, and must be adopted in, association with another. This is to
encourage the adoption of and participation in both long-term and short-term
measures: long-term benefits (forestry, range, conservation activities) with
less immediate appeal, along with the high yielding treatments with short or
medium term benefits (irrigated crops, fallow reduction, fruit trees, etc.). To
encourage adoption of the treatments which have only long term benefit (forests)
or short term disbenefit (range management with no initial access to range under
treatment) the project will finance the initial investment ar.d establishment
phase of these supporting activities. Despite these incentives the overall rate
of project development may be slower than anticipated because of the need to
integrate treatments. (The Sensitivity Analysis below indicates that a slower
uptake of activities does not adversely affect the rate of return to any great
extent.)
12.         Flexibility.  Flexibility in implementation is a key requirement for
project success. The interactive approach of the project depends on the ability
of the villagers firstly to identify problems to which the project can supply a
solution and then to respond positively to the options. Because of this approach
there is some uncertainty over the adoption patterns which will ensue. It is
quite possible that some problems will be identified for which solutions have not
been anticipated but which could be facilitated by the project. The economic



- 135 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 8
analysis is therefore indicative of the returns which can be anticipated and but
cannot pretend to represent a blueprint solution.   What is assumed is that
solutions to new problems will have at least the same or better rate of return
to those already anticipated.
13.         During project implementation phase it is imperative that project
management keep close contact with developments and that it maintain the
flexibility needed to respond to the needs of the villagers.   A project
Monitoring and Evaluation facility has been provided for to assist in this aim
(see Annex 7). Only by being responsive will the project be able to maintain the
momentum needed to encourage the full participation of the villages and hence to
achieve the flow of benefits envisaged in this analysis.
14.         The willingness of villagers to participate in some areas may be
affected by the land tenure and usufruct rights to the land in question. In some
districts cadastral surveys have been carried out and cultivable areas belonging
to the village are clearly established. Elsewhere formal clarification may be
sought before treatments are accepted.   The intensity and effectiveness of
participation by villagers will depend to an important extent on commitment and
ability of local project staff to establish trust and confidence with the
farmers.
15.         Inter-Agency CooDeration.  The integrated approach to the problem
solving of the villages will require the close cooperation of the various
agencies involved in the project, both at field level and centrally.   The
projections used in the economic analysis assume that this collaboration will
help ensure the coordinated development of the treatments envisaged. The failure
to achieve close cooperation would jeopardize the orderly and combined
implementation of the treatments selected and thus threaten the rate of return
of the project.
E. Proiect Benefits from Forestry
16.         On completion of the investment and establishment phase, the project
will have effected a range of activities: forestry, livestock, wheat, fruit, and
honey production. On plausible assumptions, forestry interventions would take
place over 57,000 hectares with an expected value of output broken dowm as
follows:
Period       Total Value         Area
(years)      (US$million)    (hectares_
SCA (incl. fodder)         60              231           17,800
Conifers                   75              178            9,800
Oak Coppice                60              189           17,800
Fuelwood Coppice           60              134           11.800
(incl. fodder)
Total                                 732           57,200



- 136 -
ANNEXm9
Page 5 of 8
This represents a little over 1,000 hectares per microcatchment of rehabilitated
or .eplanted forest resource.   Over half the area contributes directly to
improved fodder production for livestock and this accounts for almost lOX of the
value of output. The details of output of woody biomass are provided in the
attachment to Annex 3.
17.         In the early years of the project there is a considerable output of
wood due to the clearfelling operations undertaken as part of the oak coppice
rehabilitation.   Following the project period, thinning activities on newly
established stands could maintain annual incremental output of about 38,300 cubic
meters over the next five years. Harvested output then rises over the next five
years (average 9931m3/year) before steadily increasing further to an average of
155,000 cubic meters over the next 25 years, finally achieving over 210,000 cubic
meters per year from year forty five. In practice, the changes in annual output
will vary more gradually than indicated by the theoretical yield projections.
The more gradual changes will be dictated by differing maturity dates and also
by demand. Detailed estimates of the yeilds and contribution of the different
treatments are given in Annex 3.
In order to achieve the outputs indicated it is important that the stands are
allowed to mature and that extraction is carefully controlled.
F. Project Benefits from Crops and Livestock
18.         The project would affect livestock activities largely through the
greatly improved production of fodder but in addition some 2,700 cows are
expected to receive artificial insemination or benefit from bull barns during the
life of the project.   Increased fodder production is anticipated at almost
117,000 tons of Dry Matter per year valued at US$70 per ton achieved as follows:



- 137 -
ANE 9
Page 6 of 8
Tons               Value
DM           (US$'000/year)
SCA (see above)                 3,560               (249)
Fuelwood coppice fodder
output (see above)              2,360               (165)
Range rehabilitation            5,430                380
Range and meadow
improvement                    13,500                945
Range seeding and
fertilization                   6,000                420
Wheat straw                     3,560                249
Sainfoin                        35,000              2,450
Vetch                           21,550              1,508
Alfalfa                         26.030              1.822
TOTAL            116,990              5,952
Production of almost 117,000 tons per year is achieved through better management
and improved technology. The annual value of this production (excluding that
from SCA and the Fuelwood Coppice areas counted above under forestry output) is
almost US$6 million. In total it is sufficient for some 58,000 head of cattle
or their equivalent in sheep/goats. The improved output will greatly relieve the
pressure on the range areas which at present suffer from severe overgrazing and
erosion.
20.         Wheat production increases by over 30,000 tons per year as a result
of the project despite a reduction in the overall area planted to wheat. The net
increase in production of wheat is the result of improved cultivars and generally
better technology. The reduced area planted to wheat is the result of taking the
sloping lands, marginal to wheat production, and converting them to fodder
production which is less susceptible to erosion.
21.         Fruit production is expected to increase by some 42,000 tons as a
result of the project. Over half of this is expected to be apricots grown under
irrigation provided by the project. The full breakdown is as follows:



- 138 -
Page 7 of 8
Tons         Pricg           Value
(US$)          ($'000)
Apricots              22,930         500           11,465
Mixed Fruit           11,740         S00            5,870
Almonds               4,930         1,200           5,916
Grapes                2.400          250             600
TOTAL       42,000                        23,851
22.         Honey production, a technology already well-known in the project
areas, is expected to be very attractive to farmers provided they can get access
to hives and swarms of bees. Increased production is expected to be in the order
of 648,000 kg per year by the end of the project which is estimated to have an
average value of US$5.20 per kilo (to include wax and honey). Detailed cost and
output assumptions for the treatments are provided in the Working Papers for the
Economic Analysis.



- 139 -
ANN 9
Page 8 of 8
G. Sensitivity Analysis
24.         The ERR of 18X per cent is robust as is shown by the following table:
Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
BTOTAL  UP 10%  UP 20%  UP 50X  DOWN 10%   DOWN 20X           50%
CTOTAL       17.3     18.8     20.3     24.4        15.7       14.0        7.8
UP 10X       15.8     17.3     18.9     22.4        14.7       13.1         6.7
UP 20%       14.6     16.0     17.3     21.0        13.0       11.5         5.7
UP 50%       11.5     12.8     14.0     17.3        10.1        8.7         3.1
DOWN 10%    19.0      20.7     22.2     26.4        17.3       15.5        9.2
DOWN 20%    21.0      22.7     24.3     28.9        19.2       17.3       10.7
DOWN 50%    30.0      32.5     34.6     40.5        28.0       25.6       17.3
BTOTAL   LAG 1   LAG 2   LAX j
CTOTAL       17.3    15.2      13.6     12.3
UP 10%       15.9    14.0      12.5      11.3
UP 20%       14.6     13.3     11.9     10.9
UP 50%       11.5     10.7      9.6       8.8
DOWN 10%    19.0      16.6     14.8     13.3
DOWN 20%    21.0      18.2     16.2     14.6
DOWN 50%    30.0      25.5     22.3     19.8
LAG 1       -       17.3     15.2     13.6
LAG 2       -        -       17.3     15.2
LAG 3       -        -        -       17.3
25.         The ERR of 17% obtains over a plausible mix of interventions, with
widely-varying returns. The inclusion of low return treatments is essential to
the multi-faceted approach to the problem of rehabilitation of the micro
catchments. Their secondary benefits, such as less runoff and erosion, have not
been quantified, but these arise in the form of improved long term production
from the treatments adopted as part of the overall package in the lower areas of
the micro catchment. Similarly, there are developments taking place elsewhere
in Turkey such as the introduction of community forests which, if successful,
could be introduced during the project.



- 140 -
Page 1 of 4
V=ff@ ARrl ISAL tPt
OEM     AXTOMLJQ
SOCI1OGaICAL CCTEI8TI-SYtC
A. D9mgggaph
1.          A major proportion (about 502) of the population In the project area
provinces remains rural. The percentage Is highest in Adiyaman (57X) and lowest
in Elazig (45X). In Malatya and Elazig rural population, however, decreased by
about 1X annually between 1985 and 1990, while there was 1.5 annual increase In
Adiyaman. Although project area specific data on incomes are not available,
rural per capita incomes in Eastern Turkey are estimated at about 402 of the
average for Turkey, and infant mortality rates of 95/1000 are 50X higher than the
average for Turkey. There are no concrete data to verify mobility patterns;
hovever, it is apparent that seasonal out-migration is a frequent form of labor
movement. The general pattern in Elazig and Nalatya is one of supporting younger
male members of the household to get established In non-agricultural activities
outside the village while seasonal migration In Adiyaman takes the form of
agricultural labor. Often entire families are contracted to work on adjacent
irrigation schemes. The main reason for migration is the difficulty in securing
an adequate livelihood from farming rather than the attractiveness of urban
living. It is quite apparent that the majority of migrants would prefer to
remain if opportunity would arise. Indeed It Is very rare that an entire family
disposes of its land and moves away permanently. Rural literacy rates in the
three provinces amount to about 602 but are considerably lower for women. Tribal
and kinship affiliations are strong and language presents a barrier for
communication with the external community particularly In the case of women.
B. VillaMe structure
2.          The smallest administrative unit In Turkey is defined as a village.
A more descriptive term, however, especially In Eastern Turkey is a "muhtarlik"
(office of headman). A Nuhtarlik contains a core village and a number of smaller
settlement units.  On average, there are some 3 units per muhtarlik in the
project area provinces and the average population varies from 400 (Elazig) to 800
(Adiyaman). A survey of 20 villages revealed variatlons from 200 to 1,750 people
per muhtarlik. The average size of a family is estiated at 6 persons giving the
average muhtarlik size of about 100 families In the project area.
3.          The muhtarlik lacks autonomous authority rendering it dependent on
central government for most rural services. The Nuhtar (Headman) is an elected
position. The muhtar is the representative of the central government and in that



- 141 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
capacity is responsible for security, keeping military and population records,
collecting taxes, and notifying authorities about health problems. The central
administration through the provincial and county governors has direct control
over the actions of the headman.   The muhtar is, however, also in spite of
potential conflicts expected to represent the village and defend its interests.
The mubtar is a significant linkage point for development efforts. The actual
leadership role of the headman is, however, curtailed not only by government
controls over his actions but also by the internal power structure of the
village. In the project area, the influence of tribal chiefs, landlords acid
sheikhs may exceed that of the muhtar. The village also has an elected council
of elders which includes two non-elected members vis. the teacher and the imam
(religious leader).   The council can play an important role and has authority
to delegate duties to members, to specify contributions in labor and money and
to penalize those who do not abide by its regulations. The council, like the
muhtar is accountable to the provincial and county governors. There are three
sources of village income, salme, imece and grants. Salme is a form of income
tax collected by the muhtar. The ceiling for collection is set very low and with
inflation it is now impossible to meet village needs. Imece is a contribution
of unpaid labor for specified activities. The council of elders is responsible
for organizing imece and although presently an unpopular practice, it has a
certain potential for participatory development. The village also retains 15X
of state taxes collected from the village and may have certain other income such
as rents of communal property, gifts, etc.
C. Land tenure
4.          Crop land is privately owned and average farm size is estimated at
6.5 ha, although 62X of farms are under 5 ha in size. In the micro catchments
average farm size is estimated at approximately 3 ha.   In the plains and
particularly in Adiyaman, there is a considerable concentration of land ownership
and consequently also significant landlessness among the rural population. There
is no reliable information about land distribution for the parts of the provinces
which will be embraced by the project (mostly excluding the plains) but smaller
surveys indicate that ownership is less skewed, landlessness thus less prevalent
and that the main problem is an increasing fragmentation of holdings though
inheritance. Tractor cultivation has become almost universal and has had the
unfortunate side effect of increasing erosion, as it is mostly undertaken along
rather than across the slope. Rangelands are state owned (treasury land) to
which the village has usufruct rights. Such land can legally not become private
property or be used beyond its designated purpose.   Where cultivable such
rangeland has, however, in practice frequently been ploughed and converted into
cropland. Although each village appears to have exclusive user rights to its
rangeland, there is very little management of this resource which over time with
increasing population and livestock pressure has become severely degraded. The
village may also have access to an area of highland pasture (Yayla) which is used
during the summer with the help of permanent dwellings or temporary camps. A
yayla may be shared by more than one village.



- 142 -                             AuN=  10
Page 3 of 4
D. Role of women
5.          Apart from child rearing and their traditional domestic tasks, women
are play a major role in agriculture. This is more pronounced in the smallholder
households and when the husband has outside employment. By and large, the sexual
division of labor is not rigid but women tend to do more of the labor intensive
and traditional types of activities, while the activities of men are more market
oriented and concern external relations. Mechanized agricultural activities are
male responsibilities. The feeding and milking of livestock are female chores,
but women also make significant contributions to crop production.            Male
migration mostly implies more work for the women as only sporadic and low paid
employment is available.   The income from outside employment is only rarely
sufficient to cater for family needs. Past development efforts have frequently
resulted in increased female workload, but women tend to be concerned about water
supply and health facilities and in village job opportunities for their men.
E. Livestock nroduction
6.          Most households keep cattle, sheep and goats mainly for subsistence
purposes.   A few, often landless households, have a more limited range of
livestock.  The livestock population has decreased as a result of insufficient
productive pasture land. Many would like to expand their livestock keeping but
are constrained by the non-availability of pasture and labor and the cost of
purchased feed. While milk is an important element in the diet, livestock
reared for meat are considered principally as a marketable commodity, especially
sheep. So long as range management advice includes information about appropriate
herd size and carrying capacity, range improvements should not be threatened by
excessive increase in livestock numbers.
F. Some devel2oment conclusions
7.          The following key conclusions for the development work have been
suggested:
(a)   Settlement is scattered and villages are not very homogeneous
(varying tribal affiliation, kinship lines, poverty status)
necessitating a broad participation by different groups in the
planning of the development effort and in sharing the benefits. The
involvement of women is crucial.
(b)   Agriculture  and  livestock  are  becoming  secondary  sources  of
livelihood for some rural households. Although there has in some
places been a reduction in the livestock population, this trend has
not yet resulted in any substantial relief in the pressure on
natural resources since almost all families continue to cultivate
their farms and productivity has remained stagnant. Over time it is
likely to result in some permanent transfer to other occupations,
change of family residence and consequently in increasing farm size
and improved prospects for the remaining farming population as well



- 143 -                             ARM  I
Page 4 of 4
as for environmental sustainability. It will be important to avoid
discouraging the transition that is now under way, while assisting
those that expect to remain in agriculture to raise the
productivity.
(c)   The lack of autonomous authority of the village administration has
created a dependency on central government services and handouts.
This is an obstacle in promoting village responsibility for improved
management of rangelands and for developing a partnership in the
management of forest lands.   Genuine village participation in
planning the development efforts and in sharing the costs and
benefits will require sustained efforts.



ANNEX 11
- 144 -                         Page 1 of 15
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        There is limited experience within Turkey of "Integrated Watershed
Development" involving collaboration between different Ministries and
Departments in planning and implementing a coordinated effort of natural
resources rehabilitation. A key feature of successful watershed development
is the close involvement of the people who use the resources in question.
Unless the program responds to their priorities and requirements and brings
quick and substantial benefits, the improvements are unlikely to be sustained.
This kind of "participatory" or "interactive" planning is also to a large
extent new to Turkey. Little attention has in the past been given to the
rehabilitation and improvement of communally used rangelands. The treatment
of such lands will be of major importance in the watershed development
efforts. The training and technical assistance component of the project is
designed to overcome these gaps in the domestic experience and to upgrade the
technical skill of the staff in the three provinces who will be involved in
project execution. A complicating factor is the present quick turnover of
staff. It will be important to counter this by emphasizing the innovative,
path-breaking nature of the project, participation in which may open up new
career opportunities when the approach is replicated in other parts of Turkey.
Some turnover will, however, be unavoidable and will need to be considered in
the design of the training program.
A. Training
2.        Throughout implementation the micro catchment planning process will
introduce project objectives, the participatory mode of operation, the
technical treatment options and their estimated effects on production, the
local responsibilities for management of range and forest lands and the cost
sharing arrangements to the concerned villagers. This can be done through
study trips to adjacent micro catchments (at later stages of the project),
through visits to sites where different treatments have been implemented, and
through more formal training sessions in local schools and other facilities.
During implementation, it would be desirable to reinforce the management
aspects by discussing, for example, the shepherds' grazing practices and how
they can be modified. The project area may be estimated to embrace some
40,000 families. The aim would be to expose 25% of these families to a three-
day training. 30,000 training days at an average cost of US$10 would be
required. The training would include senior members of the village, in
particular the teacher, imam, muhtar and village elders, who would also
receive initial training in a separate session. Provincial staff would work
together from KHGM, MOF and PDA to serve as teachers and the project would



- 145 -                         Page 2 of 15
rent buses for the study trips. The training would in summary cover the
following topics:
e project objectives and participatory MC planning;
*  study trips to adjacent MCs and treatment sites;
*  rangeland treatments;
o  forest land treatments;
o  supporting treatments;
* village responsibilities in the management of range
and forest lands.
Detailed training programs would be worked out with the help of a training
specialist, recruited as short-term technical assistance.
3.        Existing facilities (including schools and universities) would be
utilized for training. The training would be undertaken by specialists at the
provincial level. Ankara based specialists and the technical assistance
provided under the project would prepare the provincial staff for these tasks
and conduct some of the training. A manpower development and training o.ficer
at the PCSU would be responsible for the planning and monitoring of the
program, assisted initially by short-term technical assistance. The average
cost per training day is estimated at US$30. The proposed courses amount to
about 24,000 training days as specified below:
(a)       inception course for project staff (3 days x 100 staff; repeated
each of the following six years for 20 new employees) - 660 training
days;
(b)       information day for non project staff (1 day x 3 provinces x 20
officials x 6 years) - 360 training days;
(c)       annual workshop for project staff (2 days x 3 provinces x 100 staff
x 6 years) - 3,600 training days (at the Forestry training institute
in Elazig which has accommodation for 50 people; remaining staff
would be accommodated at government resthouses elsewhere in the
city);
(d)       technical training in forest, range and supporting treatments (5
days x 100 staff; repeated each of the following five years for 30
new staff) - 1,250 training days;
(e)       special training:
(i) design and analysis of demonstrations (5 days x 10 staff x 3
occasions) - 150 training days (at Diyarbakir or Erzurum
agricultural research institutes);
(ii) monitoring and evaluation (10 days x 10 staff x 6 occasions) -
600 training days;



- 146 -                         Page 3 of 15
(iii)   computer operators (9 days x 50 staff x 10 occasions) -
4,500 training days (contracted to private training
companies to support supplier training purchased with the
equipment and software);
(iv) nursery management (10 days x 25 staff x 4 occasions)   1,000
training days (Elazig or Eskisehir school for nursery men);
(v)  tractor operations (7 days x 25 staff x 4 occasions) - 700
training days; (the course would take place at the Forest
Training Center in Kahmaranmaras)
(vi) bulldozer operators (part of training provided by supplier;
twice 5 days x 50 staff x 3 occasions) - 1,500 training days
(the course would take place at the Forest Training Center in
Antalya);
(vii)   there is provision equivalent to 5,000 training days to be
allocated as the need arises.
(f)       Language training (80 days x 50 employees) - 4,000 training days
(in Ankara and the three provinces through private courses).
4.        The two main objectives in establishing a definitive program of
overseas studies would be to arrange study trips to and short term training in
(a) watershed development approaches including participatory planning and
common property resource management (Thailand, India, Pakistan, Philippines,
Australia, etc.), (b) range management (Australia, New Zealand and Western
USA), and (c) some outside experience of coppice rehabilitation, silvipasture
and of involving local villages in the protection and management of forest
land would be worthwhile (e.g. South Korea, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden)
Finally, (d) study tours would also include exposure to different methods of
soil conservation (Italy, Australia, New Zealand, France, Morocco, Tunisia).
Forage production and agroforestry on farm land could also be of interest.
Some 60 person months of study tours and 48 person months of short-term
fellowships have been budgeted. In addition, 64 months of study tours within
Turkey to review natural resource management programs are envisaged. (Note:
This training excludes GIS related training). Overseas training would be
administered by a specialist contractor, through a separate technical
assistance contract.
B. Recruitment of Technical Assistance
5.        In order to help develop a cadre of planners and implementators of
watershed rehabilitation, the project envisages Technical Assistance (TA).
The job descriptions for the various long term and short term TA specialists
required are in Sections D through I. A key role of the team to be recruited
will be to train and work very closely with national government staff (see
training above). TA is identified as being both national and international



ANMODL1
- 147 -                         Page 4 of 15
and recruitment would be carried out accordingly. Terms of reference for
specific experts follow after para 11.
6.        TA recruitment would be under one major contract, including Turkish
specialist TA, with additional local contracts for research, monitoring and
social surveys separately. The advantages of letting a single contract are
that with one consultancy company in charge, the Government would be assured
of coordinated technical and administrative support for the entire TA team.
For the two best companies, at least the Watershed Rehabilitation Specialists,
who will be the effective team leader for the TA, would be interviewed in
Turkey. (The visit would be financed by the company bidding; any additional
candidates interviewed would be funded by the project.)
7.        The Government would initiate an annual procedure of Technical
Assistance evaluation. The evaluation is a two way process that would also
allow staff to identify specific achievements as well as areas of difficulty.
Such evaluation would form part of the annual planning process whereby
individuals would set themselves professional goals which would then be
reviewed at year end. The annual staff evaluation would be discussed and
acted upon with the consultancy company providing the TA.
8.        The exception to using the single company approach to TA recruitment
might be the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist who theoretically should be
independent of the main project implementation and TA team. However, the need
to work closely together for successful project implementation, indicates that
to appoint an independent individual would cause friction. It is recommended
the tender process invite bids for all positions but that the Government
reserve the right to appoint an independent MIS/K&E specialist should an
acceptable candidate be identified.



- 148-                          Page 5 of 15
C. Timetable
9.        The recruitment of the TA would take approximately five months.
Activity                        Activity    Total
time        weeks
(weeks)     elapsed
1. Create and notify Committee for TA selection           1            1
2. Preparation of bid documents, TOR, LOI and             3            4
ratification by Government and Bank, selection
of shortlist
3. Invitation to 4-6 shortlisted companies                6           10
4. Opening and Evaluation of bids                         3            13
5.  Interviews for shortlisted TL candidates              1           14
6. "No objection" procedure with the Bank                 1           15
7. Contract negotiation and signature                     1           16
8. Arrival of first TA in the field                       5           21
10.       The recruitment of the TA would take some 21 weeks as shown above
and although some improvements can be made, it is unlikely to take less time
if the full procedures are observed. Indeed, it would be prudent to allow an
additional four weeks for unforeseen slippage to allow for delays.
11.       The technical assistance would report to the Project Coordination
Unit (PCSU) in Ankara and would provide on the job training to counterpart
staff within that unit and in the provinces, when TA would be based. The TA
would also help to locate and design local and international training courses
for project staff. In all, 97 months of international technical assistance
(unit cost US$18,500 per month for short-term, US$12,500 per month for long
term) and 39 months of domestic consultancy services (unit cost US$3,000 per
month) are provided for as specified below: (the breakdown between foreign
and local consultants is an estimation only: actual consultants' proposals may
differ substantially from this). Terms of reference are specified in sections
D through I. In addition, a lump sum of US$384,000 is provided for
specialized studies to be determined during the project period (e.g. impact
analysis prior to the project implementation review, plus supporting ad hoc
surveys in year 4, and project preparation for a second phase in year 6).



- 149 -                         Page 6 of 1S
= = = ~~~Y I A R   
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  TOTAL
Watershed Rehabilitation    4       9      9     2      2      0      2     28
Specialist
Monitoring/MIS/Economist    3       3      1     1      1      1      2     12
Training Expert (int.)       3      2      2     2      0      0     0       9
Range Management             3      6      6     2      2      1      1     21
Participatory Planning
Specialist                   3      2     2      1      0      0     0       8
Adaptive Research
Consultancies                2      2      1     0      0      0     0       5
Short-term Consultancies
(int.)                       2      2     2      2      2      2     2      14
Short-term Consultancies
(dom.)                       5      7     7      7      7      4     2      39
TOTAL             25    33    30    17    14         8      9    136
Note:     excludes T.A. associated with GIS, see Section I.
D. Watershed Rehabilitation SRecialist
Duties
12.       The Watershed Development and Rehabilitation Specialist would work
closely with Project counterparts, participating line agencies, and trainees
to develop management plans for priority micro-catchments. In so doing, the
incumbent would provide on-the-job training in watershed development and
rehabilitation, as well as help establish the format and trend of watershed
planning during the initial years of project implementation.
ScoRe of Work
13.       Working closely with counterparts, participating line agency staff,
and trainees, the specialist would assist Project staff to formulate work
plans to guide watershed planning and implementation in the project area.
14.       The incumbent would assist participating line agencies and staff to
assemble baseline data including maps, aerial photos, satellite imagery,
statistical output data, land-use data, climatic data, streamflow and sediment



ANNEXX 11
- 150 -                        Page 7 of 15
discharge data, etc. In collaboration with participating agencies, the
specialist will actively work in the micro-catchments listed for
implementation. The specialist will assist participating staff in the
methodologies and principles of watershed rehabilitation and development
planning. These plans will follow the guidelines and concepts presented in
Annex 5.
15.       He would play a key role in helping project staff assemble the
skills they require to implement the project. While many of these skills are
technical, they also involve helping participating staff gain proficiency in
village-level, participatory group communications. The technical skills the
specialist would help staff planners acquire would initially focus on
traditional survey methods such as pacing, compass, and transit; but would
introduce the practical application of computerized resource information
systems being developed by the PCSU.
Oualifications and other ExDerience
16.       The incumbent would hold a degree in either watershed management,
agricultural science, or forestry. He would possess at least 10 years of
experience in soil and water resource planning, some of which should have been
gained in sociological and agro-ecological environments similar to those in
the project area. In addition he would be versed in each of the following
technical skills:
(a) Computer literate in wordprocessing and use of standard
spreadsheets;
(b) Soil sampling, soil survey, land use capability, and soil
classification;
(c) Soil loss and run-off estimation procedures including for non-
agricultural lands;
(d) Runoff estimation procedures;
(e) Participatory land use planning procedures;
(f) Soil and water conservation;
(g) Small-scale irrigation design;
(h) Mapping skills, aerial photo interpretation, and the practical
aspects of GIS and GPS.
17.       In addition, the incumbent should be capable of working on steep
slopes under difficult conditions.



ANNEX 11
- 151 -                       Page 8 of 15
Place of Duty
18.       Elazig, Malatya and Adiyaman provinces in eastern Turkey.
Duration of Contract
19.       Twenty eight months over the period of the project: 4 months in year
1, 9 months in years 2 and 3, followed by 2 months in years 4 and 5. He will
provide a final 2 months in year 7.
E. Rangeland Management Sgecialist
Duties
20.       The Rangeland Management Specialist would work with provincial
project staff to help them develop a better understanding of rangeland
productivity assessment, rangeland rehabilitation and rangeland management in
the project area. He or she would focus on means of assessing rangeland
productivity at different times of the year, and management strategies to
maintain or increase rangeland productivity. He or she would help prepare
rehabilitation plans, help design adaptive research trials for rangeland sites
and develop techniques for range productivity assessment and self-monitoring.
Scope of Work
21.       The Rangeland Management Specialist would work with provincial
extension and forestry staff and farmers to strengthen their capabilities in
rangeland management-. This would include developing strategies to facilitate
formation of village rangeland management groups. He or she would work with
project staff to develop management strategies to maintain or increase
rangeland productivity and facilitate their inclusion in rangeland management
plans developed and implemented with village groups.
22.       The Specialist would work with project staff to develop means of
assessing rangeland productivity at different times of the year. Once
developed, these would be linked to management strategies for sustainable
rangeland grazing. These strategies would be extended to village groups to
help with the formation and implementation of rangeland development plans.
The Rangeland Management Specialist would train provincial staff to develop
and help implement village rangeland rehabilitation plans and design adaptive
research trials for rangeland sites.
23.       The Specialist would work with pastoralists and project staff to
develop techniques for range productivity assessment and self-monitoring.
Auto-recording formats would be determined with pastoralists and the
organization and management of data collection and analysis would be developed
with the Project Coordination and Unit.



ANNES 11
- 152 -                         Page 9 of 15
Oualifications and Experience
24.       The Rangeland Management Specialist would be an international
consultant with qualifications in rangeland science and more than 10 years
practical experience in the management and sustainable use of shrub rangelands
in Turkey or regions with similar agro-ecological conditions. He or she
should be used to working in the field with extension agents and pastoralists
and should be able to adapt ideas and technologies quickly to the conditions
of the project area. He or she should also be able to demonstrate the ability
to develop an understanding of the needs of pastoral communities participating
in the project. The Rangeland Management Specialist would be experienced in
the use of auto-recording or self-monitoring techniques for collecting
rangeland management information with pastoral communities. He or she should
have practical experience in the rehabilitation and management of rangelands
using extensive techniques. The Specialist will speak and write fluent
English.
Place of Duty and Duration of Contract
25.       The Rangeland Management Specialist would work with provincial PUBs
throughout the project area. The duration of the contract would be 3 months
in year 1, 6 months in years 2 and 3, 2 months in years 4 and 5, and 1 month
each in years 5 and 6. Assignments would be during the spring and summer
months.
F. Economist/lMS/Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Duties
26.       The specialist would be required to work closely with project
management to develop practical Management Information Systems and to devise a
program for monitoring and evaluation acceptable to Government and the Bank.
As required, from time to time, the specialist would assist management in the
analysis of specific components of the project and help with the forward
planning of project activities.
Scope of Work
27.       The specialist would work closely with project counterparts, in
particular the Central Unit established in the MOF and other participating
line agencies. Training counterparts would form an important component of
his/her work. The specialist would work closely with the teams preparing the
micro catcbment development plans and would advise on the economic viability
of proposals. He/she would devise systems and sources for the collection and
analysis of technical and financial parameters for he treatments on offer to
the villagers in the MCs as well as data on potential treatments. The
database so created would be continuously updated so that the MC development
plans can be accurately reviewed as low cost, technically viable and with an
acceptable rate of return.



- 153 -                       Page 10 of 15
28.       The tools and approach to the participatory approach to MC planning
(discussion, presentation, the menu of treatments, mutually exclusive options,
explanatory variables etc.) would be constantly under review and the MIS
specialist would assist management to devise ever more transparent means of
explanation of the options. The constantly evolving approach would streamline
the planning process and help identify bottlenecks, At the same time the
specialist would help devise systems for monitoring activities in the MCs to
assist management in the smooth planning and implementation, with
modifications, as appropriate.
29.       The specialist would develop a micro catchment model which would be
gradually refined to reflect the technical, economic and climatic differences
between the regions within the project. The models would be used to:
(a) measure the pre-project situation for each village;
(b) measure the project impact on each village in the MC;
(c) prepare an aggregate model of project activities and impact for each
treatment, in each province and for the project as a whole;
(d) allocate project resources, and determine cash flow requirements,
both annually (project budget) and implications for expenditures up
to and beyond the life of the project;
(e) develop key socio-economic indicators of project impact (qualitative
and quantitative): regional, provincial, sub-catchment, micro
catchment, and individual level.
30.       The M&E program would be devised to coincide with the planning cycle
so that information on past activities could be assimilated into the next
planning cycle. In this way, the methodology of both collecting and using the
data would be progressively to updated and refined as an effective management
information system with wide application. The specialist would also help
develop the data base in such a way as to facilitate the planning of
activities beyond the present project.
31.       The specialist would work closely with and train national staff to
fulfill the activities outlined above. Particular emphasis would be given to
the need to involve multi-disciplinary skills in the planning process and
formal procedures would be established to bring together the expertise of the
project as represented by technical assistance and other senior project staff.
Emphasis would be given to crating close links between the participating line
agencies to improve coordination in planning and to stimulate efficient
decision making. While work will be carried out mainly at regional level, the
specialist will help strengthen the capacity of the Central Unit so that it
will play a greater direct role in future planning activities. The specialist
would review annually his/her assignment with project management and senior
officials of the participating line agencies.



- 154 -                       Page 11 of 15
Oualifications and exSerience
32.       The Economist/MIS/Monitoring and Evaluation specialist would hold a
degree in agricultural economics and relevant experience extending over at
least ten years. He/she would demonstrate and ability to work with multi-
disciplinary teams and competence to set up successful operational procedures.
The appointment will involve much reciprocal training and learning for which
an aptitude should be demonstrated. Technical skills would include:
(a) computer literacy with experience in setting up large database
systems, using spreadsheets and word processing;
(b) ability with Bank software: PCCOSTAB, COSTBEN and FARMOD;
(c) micro project planning and economic and financial feasibility
analysis;
(d) ability build quantitative models with specific application to
management information systems and forward planning;
(e) skills in preparing annual budget requirements;
(f) knowledge of farm survey systems and the scope for data capture from
rural populations.
Experience of working in eastern Turkey would be an advantage.
Place of duty
33.       The Economist/MIS/Monitoring and evaluation specialist would work
directly for the PCSU with extensive fieldwork throughout the project area.
He/she would work very closely with the Central Unit based in MOF Ankara.
Duration of contract
34.       Twelve person months over the project period are budgeted in the
project costings. Input would be provided at intervals with three months per
year in the first two years, one month per year for four years and two months
in year seven.
G. Participatorv Development SRecialist
Duties
35.       The Psrticipatory Development Specialist would work with the
provincial project staff to implement initial Farmer Center Problem Census and
Problem Solving (FC-PCPS) field work and other socio-economic studies required
for preparing micro-catchment plans to be implemented in the first three years
of the project. He or she would also develop a cadre of Community Development
Specialists (CDS), from existing provincial staff, to work as the



- 155 -~ ~ ~~~NE 11Z.U
- 155 -                        Page 12 of 15
project CDS with each provincial Project Implementation Unit (PUB). This
person would adapt FCPCPS techniques to the project area and carry-out FCPCPS
training courses.
Scope of Work
36.       The Participatory Development Specialist would work with provincial
PUBs to facilitate the conduct of problem census meetings during planning of
village and micro-catchment plans. Similarly, the Specialist would conduct
problem solving activities in collaboration with technical staff working on
the project from MoF, PDA, and KHGM.
37.       Whilst conducting FCPCPS work and facilitating micro-catchment
planning, the Specialist would train selected staff from project institutions
in participatory development and FCPCPS techniques. In particular, he or she
would develop the skills of one existing staff member in each provincial PUB
to become the provincial community development specialist (CDS) working in
each project province.
38.       Whilst conducting community development work in the field and
contributing to the preparation of micro-catchment plans, the Specialist would
adapt problem census and problem solving techniques to increase their
appropriateness to the objectives of the project and the needs of
participating communities. He would develop a procedure normal for
participating watershed planning and implementation.
Qualifications and Experience
39.       The Participatory Development Specialist would have international
and Turkish experience and agricultural or rural development qualifications
and experience in participatory development in rural development projects. He
or she will have experience in implementation of participatory watershed
development projects. He or she will have practical experience in the
adaptation and use of FC-PCPS techniques for watershed development projects,
and the participation of community groups in natural resource management. The
Participatory Development Specialist would speak and write fluent English
with, at least, good working Turkish.
Place of Duty and Duration of Contract
40.       The Participatory Development Specialist would be based in the
project area and would work throughout the project area in field and office
locations as required by the provinces. The assignment would be for 8 months,
3 in year 1, 2 in years 2 and 3 and a final 1 month in year 4.



- 156 -                        Page 13 of 15
H. Adagtive Research Specialist
Duties
41.       The Adaptive Research Specialist would work with provincial project
staff to establish adaptive research programs and develop a cadre of Adaptive
Research Specialist (ARS), from existing PDA staff, to work with each
provincial PUB. This person would design adaptive research techniques,
suitable for the project area.
ScoRe of Work
42.       The Adaptive Research Specialist would work with provincial PUBs and
Directorates of Agriculture to facilitate the conduct of adaptive research in
priority sub-catchments. He or she would develop strong linkages between
regional research institutions relevant to the project and project
institutions at provincial, county and village levels. Key institutions would
include: Eastern Anatolian Regional Agricultural Research Institute in
Erzurum; Southeastern Anatolian Regional Agricultural Research Institute in
Diyarbakir; Field Crops Research Institute in Ankara; Rural Affairs Regional
Research Institute in Sanliurfa; and Rural Affairs Regional Research Institute
in Erzurum, and Forestry Regional Research Institutes in Elazig.
43.       Whilst undertaking initial adaptive research work and facilitating
micro-catchment planning, the Specialist would train three PDA staff in
adaptive research techniques and develop networks between these staff and
research scientists in relevant research institutions.
44.       The Adaptive Research Specialist would work to develop detailed
curricula for adaptive research and participatory technology development
courses. He or she would present these courses during the first project year.
Subsequent courses would increasingly be presented by the provincial ARSs
trained by the Specialist.
Oualifications and ExDerifncm
45.       The Adaptive Research Specialist would have agricultural
qualifications and post graduate training in crop production. He or she will
have more than 10 years field experience in the planning and implementation of
adaptive research in the field - at least some of which should have been
gained in eastern Turkey. The Adaptive Research Specialist would speak and
write fluent English and a working knowledge, at least, of Turkish would be an
advantage.
Place of Duty and Duration of Contract
46.       The Adaptive Research Specialist would be based in the project area.
The assignment would be for 2 months in years 1 and 2, and 1 month in year 3.



ANN 11
- 157 -                        Page 14 of 15
I. Thematic MapRer/GIS/GPS Specialist
47.       Financial provision in year 3 of the project has been made for
provision of a simple CIS system, hardware, software, training and technical
assistance. The precise form the GIS would take has not yet been finalized.
48.       A total of 10 person-months of international and 32 person-months of
Turkish technical assistance has been envisaged in the GIS component, together
with on-the-job training. The initial contract of the GIS specialist would be
for 3 months. During this time, he would determine detailed needs for further
technical assistance, assess the skills of provincial staff and design and
adapt appropriate technologies and training programs. His/her assignment
would be likely to be lengthened by a further seven months spread over the
following three years.
49.       The specialist would work initially in Ankara to design, establish
and implement a computer-based database for use in physical planning and
project management at the MC, provincial and project levels. The database
would include a simple GIS, probably (IDRISI) with the ability to create and
interpret thematic maps and to use Global Positioning System (GPS) inputs from
fieldwork. The specialist would conduct in-house training at several levels,
and would prepare all relevant training materials. The specialist would
commission three similar systems (one in each project province) and continue
training activities. An important task at this stage would be to ensure that
coordination procedures between the provinces and Ankara were functional.
50.       The specialist would have a university postgraduate degree in the
design and/or use of computer-based information systems used in processing
spatially-related data. He or she would have extensive recent practical
experience in relevant fields and complete fluency in English.
J. Training Specialist
51.       The Training Specialist would work with the Project Coordination and
Support Unit in the Ministry of Forestry and with the three provincial Project
Implementation Units to identify the specific training needs of provincial and
county level staff from the provincial Departments of Agriculture, Forestry
and Village Affairs. The Specialist would prepare a plan for in country
training, detail outlines of the different courses and determine the resource
requirements for execution of the plan.
ScoRe of Work
52.       The Training Specialist would:
(a)       plan farmer training (SAR Annex 11, para 2);
(b)       review or together with responsible officers develop job
descriptions for staff in the three agencies concerned with the
planning, implementation and monitoring of the project;



- 158 -                        Page 1' of 15
(c)       review staff experience and capacity for carrying out these
assignments;
(d)       plan in country staff training to improve capacity to execute the
tasks assigned in respective job description (see also SAR Annex 11,
para 3); due to high staff turnover repeater courses will be
required;
(e)       plan the organization, resource requirements (including teachers)
and venues for the training efforts; and
(f)       guide the efforts to develop training material.
Qualification and Experience
53.       The Training Specialist would be an international consultant with a
degree in agriculture or forestry and post graduate qualifications in adult
education. The Specialist should have at least five years experience in
preparing and implementing adult training programs associated with development
projects and should be fluent in English.
Place of Duty and Duration of Contract
54.       The Specialist would work in field and office location in Adiyaman,
Elazig and Malatya for three months in the first year, and two months in each
of years two, three and four (total 9).



ANNEX-12
- 159 -                          Page 1 of 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED kEHABILITATION PROJECT
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
1.          On-farm adaptive research and demonstrations would be conducted in
the project micro-catchments.   Adaptive research in each province would be
facilitated by an Adaptive Research Specialist.   This person, selected from
existing PDA staff, would work with the Watershed Management Specialist (WMS) and
staff from each provincial institution implementing project components to
establish demonstrations and to carry out on-farm adaptation trials in selected
micro-catchments. The ARS would act as the link between villages, the Provincial
Implementing Unit (PUB), the Regional Agricultural Research Institutes in Erzurum
and Diyarbakir, the Rural Affairs Research Station in $anliurfa and the Forestry
Research Station at Elazig. Regional research institutes as well as relevant
universities have expressed support anid have confirmed their willingness to work
with the ARS to service the adaptive research needs of this project.
A. Agriculture
Demonstrations and Applied Research
2.    The project would finance the following demonstrations for which indicative
areas are given below.
Mi)   Demonstration, on a total of 5 dekars in each of the 54 project
micro-catchments, of conservation tlllage practices on the contour
using sweep tined cultivators instead of mouldboard ploughs. Sites
would be selected in each village with arable land having slopes in
excess of 4 per cent.
(ii)  Demonstration on a total of 5 dekars in each of the 54 project
micro-catchments on the effects of sowing time of wheat, chickpeas,
lentils, Hungarian Vetch, and sainfoin on productivity and soil
management. Autumn sowing would be promoted in all micro-catchments
but in extreme areas, spring sowing of some pulses and forage
legumes would also be demonstrated.
(iii) Demonstration on 5 dekars in each of the 54 project micro-catchments
of the yield effect of difPerent rates and application times of
fertilizer.
(iv)  Demonstration on 5 dekars in each of the 54 project micro-catchments
of HYV wheat. These demonstrations would promote the replacement of
traditional wheat varieties with high yielding varieties grown with
recommended husbandry. Demonstrations would be designed to convince
both farmers and VGT of the impressive potential for increasing



- 160 -                             ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
cereal productivity in the project area and to take wheat production
away from the more marginal erosion prone areas.
(v)   Demonstration of irrigated vegetable and fruit production on a total
of 5 dekars in each project micro-catchment where irrigation is
developed.   Irrigated production demonstrations would focus on
efficient water application, soil-crop-water relationships and
production of high value horticultural crops.
(vi)  Demonstration of fallow reduction techniques using conservation
tillage and production of chickpeas and lentils on a total of 5
dekars in each project micro-catchment.   This component would
complement TUYAP II in Adiyaman and Malatya.
Adaptive Research
3.    Adaptive research programs not included in the Agricultural Research
Project would be implemented in one or more of the 10 sub-catchments for dryland
agriculture. A budget of $6,000 has been allocated per province for adaptive
research each year to identify appropriate packages for:
(i)   sustainable seedbed preparation on slopes between 4 and 15 per cent
slope to be implemented on project micro-catchments in Adiyaman,
Elazig and Malatya;
(ii)  sainfoin  (Elazig  and Malatya),  alfalfa  (Elazig,  Malatya  and
Adiyaman) and Hungarian vetch (Elazig, Malatya and Adiyaman)
agronomy on marginal cereal lands on project micro-catchments;
(iii) the use of herbicides as an improved management tool for minimum
tillage with field crops; and
(v)   runoff and erosion measuring plots to calculate soil loss.
B. Rangelands
4.    The project would fund the following demonstrations and adaptive research:
Demonstrations
(i)   Demonstration on a total of 10 dekars in each project micro-
catchment on rangeland to encourage adoption of the general
prescription of 5 kg N/da and 7 kg P205/da using diammonium phosphate
(DAP at 25kg/da on 5 dekar) and triple super phosphate (TSP at 15
kg/da on 5 dekar).
(ii)  Demonstration on a total of 10 dekars in each project micro-
catchment on enrichment seeding using a mix of sainfoin (Onobrychla
viciifolia of 30 kg/ha), alfalfa cv Kayseri (Hedicago sativa at 10
kg/ha), Andropogon cr1istatum (at 10 kg/ha), and Bromus inermis (at
10 kg/ha).



ANNEX 12
- 161 -                          Page 3 of 4
(iii) 10 dekar demonstrations in each project micro-catchment of grazing
management.
(iv)  Demonstrations on perennial forage bank development and management
oni marginal cereal land and appropriate rangeland sites. Species
would be sainfoin (Onobrychls vlclifolia) sown in a mix at 50 kg/ha
and alfalfa (fedlcago sativa), cv Kayseri, sown in a mix of 10
kg/ha, with appropriate grasses, principally Agropyrin cr1statum
sown in a mix at 10 kg/ha and Bromus Intermis sown in a mix at 10
kg/ha. 150 kg/ha diammonium phosphate fertilizer would be applied
at establishment. Other legumes such as annual medics (especially
Medicago rigldula and M. minima) could be tested in Elazig and
Malatya.
Adaptive Research
5.    (i)   Adaptive research programs in each province to assess fertilizer and
seeding treatments under grazing conditions on mer'a and yayla.
Research is needed in Eastern and SE Anatolia to define fertilizer
and seeding response for both mer'a and yayla under grazing
conditions. The importance of phosphatic fertilizers in encouraging
and maintaining legume content of rangelands is particularly
important. Range species composition would also be assessed.
(ii)  The impact of increased fodder on livestock productivity and soil
management will be the focus of fertilizer work.   Least cost
packages of maintenance fertilization after rehabilitation need to
be developed, especially for marginal range. Research design would
be developed based on experience derived from the Erzurum Pilot and
Range Development and Forage Project.   It would complement the
forage legume adaptive research.
(iii) Adaptive research would be carried out with runoff and erosion
measuring plots to calculate soil loss from representative rangeland
soil and slopes in each province. This would be led by the KHCM
regional research institutes in Erzurum and Sanliurfa. Plots would
be established on 3 land erodibility types in each province and
include  replicated  treatments  representing  ungrazed  range,
fertilizer enriched range.
(iv)  Pilot aerial seeding and fertilization of 5,000 ha of severely
degraded range using appropriate range grass and legume species
pelleted with DAP fertilizer (250 kg/ha), relevant rhizobial
inoculants and a yellow dye to facilitate monitoring. Seed would be
pelletized prior to aerial sowing. Pellet size would be designed to
protect the seed from seed collecting range ants and rodents. The
seed mix would be sown in October-November and include Onobrychis
satlva, (sown in a mix at 40kg/ha), and Medicago satlva cv Kayseri
(sown in a mix at 15 kg/ha). These could be mixed with appropriate
grasses, principally Agropyron cristatum (sown in a mix at 10kg/ha)
and Bromus Inermls (sown in a mix at 10kg/ha).



- 162 -                             ANNE  2
Page 4 of 4
Suitable trial sites exist in G6ksu, Hekimhan, Kahta, Kusuova, Pitarge,
and Tohma sub-catchments.
C. Forest Land
6.      An active and relevant program of adaptive research will advance the
progress  and  success  of  forestry  in  the  region.    While  the  necessary
institutional structure exists, it requires strengthening and focus. Project
sponsored research would include the following topics and be implemented in each
of the three provinces:
* Quantification of the impacts associated with Soil Conservation and
Afforestation (SCA) bench terraces and ripping on the water balance and
soil loss;
e Comparative survival and growth of trees under mechanically treated and
untreated conditions on similar sites. This would include a comparison
of direct seeding and container grown trees.
* Quantification of comparative growth and survival of fertilized and non-
fertilized trees including those established by direct sowing.
 Pilot management of rehabilitated forest area by local communities,
adapting from the model developed under the Swiss Funded Community
Forest Project.



- 163 -
ANNE 13
Page 1 of 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TzUr
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1. Prevaration Report                                         February 1992
Vol. 1      Main Report
Vol. 2      Technical Appendices on
Agriculture
Rangeland
Forestry
Soil Conservation
Reservoir Sedimentation
Hill Slope Hydrology
Sociology
Megra Deresi Micro-Catchment Plan
2. Detailed Proiect Co_tl                                     October 1992
3. Detailed Economic Rate of Return Calculations              October 1992
4. PAO Report on GIS Reauirements for the S.E. Turkey Watershed Rehabilitation
Project TCP/TUR/2251                                       June 1992
5. Draft Final Nicro-Catchment Plans                          November 1992
on the following 6 micro-catchmentas
1. Piran/Temte (Elazig)
2. Sahsuvar (Elazig)
3. Kamincayi (Malatya)
4. Hancayi (Malatya)
5. Sogutlubahce (Adiyaman)
6. Beskoz (Adiyaman)



- 164 -                          Page 1 of 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
MICRO-CATCHMENT PLANS FOR FIRST YEAR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Introduction
1.        Following appraisal and agreement on guidelines for MC planning
(Annex 4) in July of 1992 each province organized a planning team with members
from the three implementing agencies. The objective was to prepare 2 MCs in
each province to train staff in the new participatory and integrated approach
to planning, to allow the project a good start in 1993 and to check the cost
estimates and the balance between different types of treatment. The
experience was also expected to result in further refinement of the MC
planning guidelines (now inserted in Annex 4). A small consultant team
assisted the three provinces in this task. The provincial teams are
themselves engaged in the preparation of a third MC in each province which may
also be implemented 1993.
Selection of MCs
2.        The selection reflects the priority given to upland areas, and MCs
or part of MCs with stable production systems and unstable geology which do
not respond to treatment have been excluded. The selected MCs are
concentrated in one sub-catchment in each province to facilitate
implementation.
General Characteristics
3.        Available data on the number of households, land use, crop
production and livestock population are summarized in Table 14.1 below. The
number of households in the 6 MCs (30 villages) amount to 2734 or on average
455 per MC and 91 per participating village. It should be emphasized,
however, that there are wide differences between microcatchmet.ts.
4.        The average area per MC amounts to 6,913 ha which if extrapolated to
the 54 MCs would give a total project area of about 373,000 ha, slightly less
than the 400,000 estimated in the SAR. The average farm size (arable land per
household) is close to 4 ha and the range area (within the MC) per household
is about 3.5 ha. The land use characteristics are summarized below. The 6
MCs have a larger proportion of forest land than the 54 MCs selected for land
use clarification purposes and summarized in Annex Table 16 of Annex LA.



- 165  -                              ~~~~~ANNEX  14
- 165 -
Page 2 of 7
Average Land Use in Selected MC
6 MCs Z UL
Forest land                                  39
Range land                                   24
Arable land                                  26
Unproductive land                            11
1/  Source:  calculated from 6 MC plans (see Annex 13); Table 14.1
About 16X of arable land is irrigated and 34Z is devoted to horticulture in
the six NCs which have been planned so far.
Table 14.1: General Characteritices
(ha)
. = -      =          =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Piran/T.    Sahauvar   Kamincayl    Hancayi    Sogutl.    Beakoz                   Total
6 MC
Households                      540          420           121         412         533        744             2770
No. of villages                  5            4             3           4           5         10               31
Household/village              108          105           40          103         107         74               89
Land Use
Forest land                  3405          1662         1722         1961        3962       3516      16248(391)
Range land                    1850         2000         1159         1314         785       2670        9778(24Z)
Arable land                   1750          911          289         1121        1672       4804      10747(26X)
- Rainfed                  1120          360           146         692        1010       2070              5398
- Irrigated                 491          255            87         245          198        392             1666
- Horticult.                109          296            56         169         666       2342              3638
- Meadow                     30             0            0          1S            0          0               45
Unproductive                    35          100           95         244         1989       2245       4708(11S)
Total                       7040          4673         3265        4640         8628      13235       41481(99)
CroD Production
Wheat                          317          270          123          569         810       1177        3266(30X)
Barley                         182           51           39          165         225        270          932(9%)
Maize                            0            0             8          15          26          0         49(0.52)
Pulses                          40           16           30           60         205         82       433(4.0X)
Forage incl. meadow             43            4            17          26          12          8        110(1.0)
Tobacco                          0            0           11           51           0          0         62(0.52)
Vegetables                      45           31            10          64          10        114        274(3.0X)
Sugar Beet                       0            0             0           2           0          0            2(02)
Fruit trees                     82           96           21           83         636       2387      3305 (312)
Grapes                          27          109           30           86          34        587          873(8X)
Fallow/                       1014          336             0           0         240        565        2155(20S)
Area doublecropped               0            0             0           0        -326       -406        -732(-72)
Total                       1750           913          289        1121         1872       4784     10729(1002)
Livestock
Cattle - Impr.                 340          580             0           0           0        460             1380
- local                805          215          739          912         925        625             4221
Sheep                        1190          6550         2800        4650         2150       4210            21550
Goats                          136          340         1200         1250        1800       1000             5726
Total                       2471          7685         4739        6812         4875       6295            32877



- 166 -                             ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 7
5.        Out of arable land 30% is devoted to wheat production and 9% to
barley. Fruit trees cover 31% of the area and grapes 8%. About 20% of the
land is unused or fallowed. Very little forage is grown (1%) and 7% of the
area is double cropped.
6.        There are on average 2 cattle and 10 sheep and goats per MC
household. 25% of the cattle are improved. Sheep and goats are owned by a
few families who as the main users of range and forest land should form the
major target group for project interventions and who need to be clearly
identified. There are slightly fewer than 3 sheep and goats per ha of range
within the MC but many villages have outside grazing areas.
The Problem Census
7.        After assembling available data, sessions were held in the MC
villages to get a priority ranking of the types of problems encountered by the
population and to launch the dialogue envisaged through the participatory
approach. At this stage one village in each of four MCs opted for remaining
outside the project apparently because of concerns about the forestry
treatments. 708 persons participated in the problem sessions in the remaining
villages of whom 39% were women. If one assumes that all men and half of the
women represented separate families the attendance was roughly 20% of the
households in the 6 MCs.  Given that interaction took place at harvest time,
and the project was not yet a "reality", this rate is reasonable. The
participation ratio in future planning work will increase as results on the
ground become known. The project has also made provisions for farmers'
training, including visits by farmers to other microcatchments. Several
hundred farmers have made written commitments, even at this early stage, to
change agronomic practices and to improve management of rangelands.
8.        Among the problems (Table 14.2) within the project mandate, lack of
irrigation, steep land, lack of income and employment opportunities, low range
production, poor returns in livestock production, fodder shortages
(particularly winter) had a high profile. The absence of wood shortages from
the list is explained by the fact that because of a draw down of the forest
inventory wood may still be relatively freely available. The priority
problems outside the project mandate mainly referred to include poor road
connections, lack of drinking water and poor Government services.



- 167 -                           ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 7
Table 14.2: Problem Census (Priority Ranking)
Piran/T  Sahsuvar  Kamincayi  Hancayi  Sogutl.  Beskoz
Problems outside project mandate
Poor road                      3       3         3       5      5       3
Drinking water                 7        6        6       2      2       1
Poor govt serv                 8                 9              4       7
Poor return poultry                     7
Health/Educ.                                             9
Agr. credit                                             10
Livestock health                                               12
Problems within project mandate
Irrigation                     1        2        1       1      1       2
Steep land                     2                 2       3      11    11
Income                         4       4         7              3       5
Local work opportunities       5        1                7      13    12
Range prod.                    6        5                4       6      6
Poor return to livestock       9       9         8              7       4
Low agric. yields                       8                        9
Winter livestock feed.                           4
Soil erosion                                     5              8       8
Forest degradation                                       8
Poor extension                                           6      10      9
9.        It is important to realize that the census is the starting point for
the dialogue and that at subsequent stages it will be necessary to check both
the problem inventory and particularly to promote more depth in the analysis
of crucial aspects such as livestock trends, fodder and wood shortages.
RaRid Rural ARpraisal
10.      Existing information about soils and land use was mapped and
relatively homogeneous so called "development suitability domains" were
identified as a basis for the problem solving discussions. During this phase
the areas which do not need treatment (sustainable land use), those that do
not respond to treatment, and the areas which have already been treated were
identified and marked on the map. A village input into this part of the
process is crucial in subsequent planning.
Problem Solving
11.      At this stage the extent to which the priority problems indicated by
the village could be addressed by selections from the treatment menu offered
by the project was established. The result of this process in terms of the
area which is proposed to be treated is given in Table 14.3. In relation to
the total area of the six MCs 41% of forest land, 27% of the range land and
26X of arable lands are proposed for treatment. 11% of arable land are also
proposed to be developed by KHGM for irrigation or improved conservation.
12.       Extrapolating from the 6 MCs of the total of 54 MCs to be covered by
the project would give somewhat lower treatment volumes than those assumed in
the SAR for rangelands and for arable land.  This may be expected at an early
stage of the project when people have insufficient information about project



- 168 -                                              ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 7
objectives. Furthermore, the selected MCs have a relatively high proportion
of forest land. The unit costs of different treatments were verified and are
indicated in Annex 5. ERRs were calculated for the six microcatchments and
vary from 12X to 17X, with an average of 14.51. The slightly lower ERR than
the SAR estimate is justified by the fact that, for their first micro-
catchment, the local population are relatively cautious about committing
themselves to changes in land use.
Table 14.3: Treated Areas
(ha)
SAR        Piran/T.    Sahsuvar   Xamincayi   Hancayl   Sogutl.    Beakoz   Total
Projection                                                                             6 MC
Min. of Forestrv             ha (X)                                                                                     ha tX)
Soil Cons/Aff.          10000(16)           592         506           325        738         255                    2416(37)
Conifer                    4900(8)           50         100                                                            150(2)
Oak Coppice             17800(29)            50                       405                     72       686          1213(18)
Fuelwood Coppice        11800(19)           200         210                      434         100                     944(14)
Range Rehab.             17800(29)          585         648           368        276                                 1877(28)
Riverbank                   140(-)           10                                                                         I0-)
Total                62440(100)                                                                                  6610(100)
411 of
forrest area
KHGM
Rainfed terr.            5616(35)           250         160            35        108         157         33           743(64)
Irrig. terr.            10530(65)                       185            38        145          60          6          414(36)
Ponds (units)               270(-)            7           6             5           6         15         13            52
Total                      16146                                                                                 1157(100)
1lX of arable
Min. of AMr.                                                                                                              land
Range M.                 58650(46)                                                                                       -(0)
RM + fort.              30500(24)                                     210         105                                 315(12)
RM4+fert+seed           20000(16)           100         1S0           100          40        240       180            810(31)
Closure                   10165(6)                      100                                                            100(4)
Aerial fort/seed           7000(6)                                    890        520                                 1410(54)
Total               126265(100)                                                                                  2635(100)
275 of range
Fallow red.             25960(54)          202           65            26        125         151       200          1769(27)
Agr. Package            11667(24)           246          79            32         152        185       245            939(32)
Rainf                  1124(2)           20           41            22         72         148        95           398(14)
Irrig.                 2574(5)           21           31            40        124           4         3            223(8)
Bound                   580(1)             4           3            20         23                    10              60(2)
Gully                  3246(t)
Pistachio                  3000(6)                                                           500         12           512(18)
Total                48151(100)                                                                                  2901(100)
26X arable 1.
BeekeepingCunits)             1620           S0          92            40         37          38         40               337



- 169 -
ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 7
Table 14.4: Treatment Costs (USSOOO)
SAR         Piran/T    Sahauvar    KamiU-        Eancayl    Sogutl.    leakox          Total        Est.
Base Costa                               cayi                                             6 NC          Total
54 MC
Min. of Forestry
Soil Cons/Aft.                    8840         621          525         342          774         267            _
Conifer                           4390          70            94           -           -           _            _
Oak Coppice                       9904          28             -         227           -          40          383
Fuelw. Coppice                    8837         258          269            -         562         129            -
Range Rehab.                      4832          93           110          59          44           -
Riverbank                           30           4             _     -           -           -                   -
Subtotal                      36833         1074          998         628        1380         436           383         4899      44091
KRGM 
Rainfed terra.                    2187         113            72          16          49          70           15
Irrigation                       14822         134          315         135         277          272          235
Checkdams                                       20            40          16           6          16           24
Subtotal                      17009          267          427         167         332         358           274         1825      16425
Min. of Aar.
Range Seed/fort.                  2816          46            74          62          29          61           46
Range Fert.                       1673            _            _ -               -           -                  -
Fallow Red.                       2469           9             3           1           6           7            9
Agronomic Pack                     907          22             7           3          14          17           22
Horticulture                      1140            8           11          26          44          59           20
A.I.                               728            -            3           -           -           8            2
Pistachio                          194           -             -           -           -           -            1
Dem. Range                          57            3            3           3           3           3            3
Dem. Agr                           165            9            9           7           9           8            8
Aerial Seed                        558            -            -          18          10           _            -
Apiculture                        3699         180           184          80          60          76           80
Subtotal                      13908          277          294         200         175         239           191         1376      12384
Total                      67748        1618          1719         995        1887        1033          848         8100       72900
Average Cost/MC
Area                             400000        7040         4543        3265         4640        8628        13235        41548    373932
Cost per ha                        $169         230           374         305         407         120           64           195
Conclusions
13.             The six MC Indicative Plans represent a commendable effort by the
three provincial planning teams. During the detailed planning of the 1993
work program one should give increased attention to:
-   ways and means of broadening the local
participation;
-    the identification of priority target groups
(particularly the range and forest land users);
-    the analysis of fodder and wood situation and
livestock trends;



- 170 -                             ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 7
the promotion of further interaction on forestry
resource sharing, range management and cost
sharing; and
the level of supporting treatments per
household.
The present plans represent a very good first attempt and an adequate basis
for proceeding with the implementation in 1993.



- 171 -
AM=K 15
Page 1 of 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURREY
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM 1993
The project is expected to become effective in the middle of 1993.
In view of the expectations created through the participatory planning process
and to capitalize on the established momentum it is however essential to get
underway before then and thereby utilize the 1993 growing season and thus to
initiate activities in the spring of 1993.   Retroactive financing would be
available assuming procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank have been
followed. Successful launching of the project will require careful planning of
tasks to be performed, assignment of staff, training of staff and farmers,
procurement of necessary goods and equipment and adequate budgetary allocations.
These aspects have been reviewed and an implementation schedule for the start up
period has been established by each agency as indicated below.
Attachment 1: Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
Implementation Program 1993.
Attachment 2: Forestry Treatments:
Timing of Works.
Attachment 3: KHGN Working Plan for 1993
Attachment 4: Project Coordination and Support Unit:
Working Program for 1993



- 172 -                                                ANNEX 15
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 1
Provincial Denartment of Axrioulture
Implementation 8ehedule (Elasia. Adivaman & Malatva)
1992                                                                                                      Res-
Dee    Jan.    Feb.    Mbr.        Apr.    May       June    July    Aug.    Sept    Oct         Nov      pons
Planning                                                    94
Data Coll./Pc                     -            -         -                                                                      FSE
Indication Planl               93                                            94      =Tr
Work Plan                                        03                          93                                         94      FTE
Budget
Preparation
.Approval
Procurement
Vehicle                                                             ~s
|Equipment                       _                                                     _                                  _ 
Fertilier_                                                                                                                      PCSU
Seed                                                                                                                            PCSU
Seedlings             P=SU
Traininst
Study trips
Workshop Techn-
Staff
Farmers
Implementation
Agr. Demons.-                                   -         -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Range Demons.                                                   . -  -                                                   _      FTE
Range Treatm.          -       -                                                              _                 _        _      FTE
Fallow Red.                             -       _         -        -        _FTE -
ASr. Prodt.                                                        -        -        -        - _FTE
Trees Bound         _                                              -        -        -                         - _ =_
|  ortic. Rainf.                                -         -        _        -        -        -                                       |
Hortc.  rri8.                                           -          -                 -        - __
Pistachio              _       _                                                              -        -FTE
Monitoring     -   -   - -                                          -    -  -   -    -



-  173 -                                           ANNEX  15
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
FCRESIRY TREATMENTS: TIMING OF WORXS
_____________________  Jun.   Feb.   mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
Soil Conservation Aff.
Site Preparation              -       -                      _       _                       _       _       _
Fencing
Seedsowinrg
Planting
Fertilizing                           =               =
Conifer Plantation                 1  _,
Site Preparation                                             _ I
Planting                                                                              -
Fertiing                                                       =  =  -
Enerav Forestry             I   =    _   _
Rehabilitation Cut                                                I.
.                                                                                  =
Broadleaf Plantations
Site Preparation              -       -       -      _                -      -      -                                 -
Fencing-
Road
Seedsowing
Planting
ItSes                  -=   -   =                              -          1--           =: 1=-!
Gaelerv Plantation
Planting
|Seedsowing                |
I Planting
Oak Com,ice Rehabilitat   |                                                                f |
_      __Rebabilitation  Cut                                    -        [                     -   [   -    -        f-
||Fencing                                      _       _                    |       |
Road                      I___        -       =    ___=                    i               
Fuelwood Conifer Plantat  |                                f               [ -
-Site Preparation          I               L  -   |           -            |
Planting                  I                         _             -               I           -     -         =      -



NMQ1 Workine Plan for 1993
Dec   Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul          Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov    Dec
92    93
Selection of 1994 Mr                              (2 With PUB)
FCPCF8: Problem Identification                    (1 with PUB)
FCPCF8: Problem Solving                           (1 with PUB)
Final Heeting with Villages                       (1 with PUB)
Final IC plans                                    (1 wLth POB)
SuCveying of 1994 FCs                             (1)
au plamentary Surveys for 1993 M5s                (1)              _
Detailed Designs                                  (1)                     _
suuury Project Plan                               (1)                     _.
Approval of DesLins/Project Plns                  (2)                             - *
Project IaNpaontation Manual                      (2 with PCSU)
Draft Tender Dobmants                             (2)
Finalize Tender Doctsasnts                        (2)
invitation to Bid                                 (2)
Bid Evaluation                                    (2)
Submisdion/AppravaL of Bid to/by ND               (2)
Submission/Approval of Bid to/by, oFPinance       (2)
Signins of Contracts
CanatruotLon of Works                         (Contractor/lKO_)
Supervision of Works                              (2)
Monitor Linkages. Adoption Rates                  (2)
Discuss Linkages, Adoption Rates wLth Vilages    (2)
,~~~~~~~~ .                                                    =         .  _  .   =*      = _  _  =         _  =_
(1) Provinclal INEH                *  1993 IC.
(2) Contral tSG                    ** 1994 MCc.
EUB Provincial Kuplenenting Unit
(D 0) '
o (D XL
th~



- 175 -                                             ANNEX 15
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 1
lCSU: Workins Prosram for 1993
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May      June    July   Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.
Completion of PPF
- Tech. Assist. for
Implement. Manual, etc.      -        -                               -        -       -
- Study Tours = &
- Procurement of Vehicle
& Equipment                    -       -
Ecuia.tent Procurement
- Te:bnical Specs.                                                       _ -
- Invitation
- Evaluation/Contract
Materials Procurement
- Determination of
Quantities                                                                                                             -
- Package
Civil Works Contracts
- Detailed Design/Specs.
- Invitation-
- Evaluation/Contract
Technical Assistance
- Finalize TOR
- Shortlist
- Invitation
- Evaluation/Contract
Training
- Establish. of initial
training program
- Initial in-country                                            -
training8
- Establishment of year 1
Trainging program
MonitorinstEvaluationAIS
- Provincial Plan
- Field Visits
- Database-                                                     -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -
Manaxement of Prov. Fros
- Initiate MC Plan for 94
- Supervise MC Plan
implementation
-=_ =_ - =               -.                             _                       _     _



MAP SECTION



18 D 2416A
TURKEY
Ys
i     17
-O                  EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED
REHABILITATION PROJECT
T UIO c
ELA21C PROJECTPROVINCES
1&omko;.',," &-m
S  IVAS                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT MICROCATCHMENTS TO BE
REHABIUTATED IN 1993:
A"oiro                                                                                                                                                    1. PIRAM / TEMTE
2.SAHSUVAR
3. fkNCAYI
4-   INCAYI
5. SESKOZ
'OTLOBAHCE
KIIIN ,                                                                                                                              RESERVOIPS:
21                                                                                            EMSTING OR NEAR COMPLETION
El                                                4,                                               PLANNED
RIVERS
MAIN ROAD$
0    COUNTY CAPITALS
I'M                                                                                                                                                                                  0    PROVINCE CAPITALS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ELEVATION$ IN MMRS:
EM-2000
DiaE                                   MO
oy.Ify""                                                                                             K  I R
INTERNATIONALSOUNDARIES
0            20                         60
VJLOMErERS
1. t1=1 V =1                     zt
Kahloo                                                                                                                                          d. b-d  d-
1,d
MLVILK""                                                                                                            MEF
kOMANIA                                 46-       RUSSLAN
0                                                                            "!!.TON
KILGAR11
*A6
PROJECT                 4M
PROV es
SAN L I U RFA                                                                                            TURKEY
7A
M=EP.
Vtmnmhir                            )s,
T.                To W&                                                                                                                         DEC&IBER 1992



