                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                   Report No. 28274




             PROJECT     PERFORl'klANCE   ASSESSMENT    REPORT

                                   TURKEY

     EASTERN     ANATOLIA     WATERSHED     REHABILITATION   PROJECT
                                (LOAN 3567-TR)


                                 March 19, 2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)

1994              US$l .OO =TL29,818               1998            US$l.OO =TL261,604
1995              US$l.OO =TL45,845                1999            US$l.OO = TL421,139
1996              US$l.OO =TL81,591                2000            US$1.OO = TL625,208
1997              US$l.OO =TL152,438               2001            US$l.OO = TL1,228,367

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AGM               Department of Reforestation and Erosion Control (MOF)
AKRSP             Aga Khan Rural
CAE               Country Assistance Evaluation
CDD               Community Driven Development
EAWRP             Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project
FCPCPS            Farmer Centered Problem Census Problem Solving
FD                Forestry Department
GEF               Global Environment Fund
GET               Global Environment Trust
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
KHGM              General Directorate of Rural Services
MARA              Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MC                Microcatchment
MOF               Ministry of Forestry
MUHTAR            Village Leader
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
OGM               General Directorate of Forestry
ORKOY             Forest Village Development Fund
PCSU              Project Coordination and Support Unit
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
TAGEM             General Directorate for Agricultural Research
TUGEM             General Directorate of Production and Development

Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1to December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                :  Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department             : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr. Ridley Nelson

                                                              1




    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank`s self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank`s work is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project`s objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfifufionalDevelopment Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, NegIigible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                        111



Contents

Principal Ratings          ................................................................................................................   v

Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................  v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................     vii

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................     ix

Background         ........................................................................................................................   1

Findings    ...............................................................................................................................   3

Lessons    ................................................................................................................................   4

Future Directions           ...............................................................................................................   5

Analysis    ...............................................................................................................................   6

          Outcome................................................................................................................... 6
         Relevance ................................................................................................................. 6
         Efficacy ....................................................................................................................        7
                    How Effective Were Community Processes?.............................................. 8
                    How Effective Was the Traditional Catchment Approach Overlaid on the
                           CommunityApproach?....................................................................... -10
                    How Effectively Were Skills Transferred?................................................                                 11
                    Project Readiness....................................................................................... 11
                    Efficacy of the Community Approach in Forestry ....................................                                      11
                    Efficacy of Technical Work.......................................................................                        11
                    Efficacy of the GEF Component................................................................                            12
                    The Efficacy of Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................................                                 12
         Efficiency................................................................................................................          12
                    The Economic Analysis .............................................................................                      13
                    Cost Recovery............................................................................................                15
        Institutional Development..................................................................................... -1.5
                    Did Women or the Poor Get Much Say in Prioritizing Investments?........17
                   NGO Involvement..................................................................................... -17
        Bank Performance ................................................................................................. 17
                   Did the Bank do Enough on the Policy Front? ..........................................                                    18
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                      19

This report was prepared by Ridley Nelson, who assessed the project in February 2003. The report was
edited by William Hurlbut. and Helen Phillip provided administrative support.

                                                         iv


     Sustainability..........................................................................................................       19
            GEF Project................................................................................................ 21
Annex A Basic Data Sheet
       .                       ..............................................................................................      23

Annex B.Summarized      Extracts from Village Focus Group Discussions                                             ...................25
Annex C.Borrower   Comments             ......................................................................................     31

                                                   V



Principal Ratings
                                   ICR*                        ES*                        PPAR
                    _I                            _I__




Outcome                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory

Sustainability          Likely                     Likely                       Non-evaluable

Institutional           Substantial                Substantial                  Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance        Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Borrower                Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Performance

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.

Key Staff Responsible
Project                          Task Manager/Leader           Division Chief/         Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
Appraisal                       Marjory-Anne Bromhead          James Goering           Michael Wiehen
Midterm                              Tekola Dejene            Sushma Ganguly
Completion                           Nedret Durutan       Marjory-Anne Bromhead         Ajay Chhibber


                                                     v11


Preface

          This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Turkey Eastern
Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 3567-TR) for which a loan of US$77
million was approved on March 11, 1993. The project closed on October 30,2001, one
year behind schedule. The final total disbursed was US$47.97 million equivalent to 62
percent of the original amount. Cofinancing was provided by the Global Environment
Trust (GET). An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was submitted on March 31,
2002 (Report no. 24181). A separate ICR for the GEF project for In-situ Conservation of
Genetic Resources was submitted April 30, 1999.No separate PPAR is being done for
that project.

          The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based
on the ICR, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, review of
Bank files, the GEF project ICR, mission interviews and focus groups by a consultant'.
The project was discussed with Bank staff, beneficiaries, and government staff at the
central, provincial, and district levels, and with NGOs'. The mission was in the field for
about 10days and undertook field visits to Malatya and Kharamanmaras Provinces,
visiting 16 communities selected in pairs at random initially but then adjusted in some
cases for travel efficiency. Generally, farm households were interviewed in focus groups
with men and women separately. The mission was free to select and talk to any
households it chose in any micro-catchment it chose and many of the groups were
interviewed without the presence of government officials or Bank operational staff. The
cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders and government officials is gratefully
acknowledged, as is the support of the staff of the World Bank Country Office in Turkey.

         The ICR is clear, informative, and well presented, although it leaves room for
further drawing of lessons. The main reason for selecting this project for a performance
assessment was to evaluate a project that was reported to have performed well in the area
of Community Driven Development (CDD). The project was given the Bank's Award for
Excellence in 1999.A second reason was that OED has a study underway on the CDD
issue. The focus group sessions were designed to answer questions related mainly to the
CDD evaluation. A third reason was that Turkey is a country on which OED is planning a
Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE). Following standard OED procedures, the draft
PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments before being finalized.


1. Ms. Sibel Astarcioglu. Annex B gives extracts of selected focus group comments. There were 14 focus
groups done by the consultant following a guidance format and about another 7 partially following the
same format by the PPAR task manager. Attendance ranged from 4 to 20.
2. Ms. Nedret Duratan (consultant) assisted the mission with both arrangements and substantive
contribution.


                                                ix


 Summary

         The impact of the various forms of Community Driven Development (CDD)
 interventions is of particular interest to the Bank given the large number and range of
projects adopting this approach. The attached Project Performance Assessment of the
Turkey experience in a rural project offers some important institutional lessons for the
 early evolutionary stages of this type of intervention. The project was nominated for a
Bank Award for Excellence in 1999.

         A loan of US$77 million was approved for the Turkey Eastern Anatolia
Watershed Rehabilitation Project on March 11, 1993. The project closed on October 30,
2001, one year behind schedule. The total amount disbursed was US$47.97 million,
equivalent to 62 percent of the original amount. There was substantial devaluation over
the project period providing a larger amount of local currency than originally projected.
Partly due to this, but with the objective of spreading experience and skills, the project
was spread to 11Provinces from the original 3, giving broader spread but lower density
coverage.

         The main objectives of the project were to "help to restore sustainable range,
forest and farming activities in the upper watersheds of the three project provinces,
reducing soil degradation, erosion and sedimentation in reservoirs as well as increasing
productivity and incomes in this impoverished region of Turkey." These objectives were
to be pursued through efforts to improve productivity of range and forestland, promote
production of fuelwood, fodder, and more sustainable use of marginal lands, facilitate the
adoption of treatments for range and forestland to yield quick benefits, and to ensure
increased involvement of local communities. A key underlying objective was
environmental rehabilitation of degraded land. There was also a component for genetic
resources conservation of indigenous species.

        The project was to be implemented through an interactive planning process
whereby local implementing agencies would work together with villagers to prepare and
implement a plan across a micro-catchment, defining interventions for improved range
management, reforestation and improved soil moisture cultivation methods.

        There were five main components: (a) Watershed Rehabilitation (US$58.7 million
base costs), including technical farming packages, improved range management on
communal rangeland, increased productivity of government owned forestland widely
used by villagers, and strengthening of the Forestry, Agriculture and Rural Services
Directorates; (b) Income Supporting Activities (US$22.8 million) including beekeeping,
horticulture, upgrading livestock, terracing, and small-scale irrigation. (c) Planning and
Management (US$5.9 million); (d) Applied Research (US$0.8 million); and, (e) In Situ
Gene Conservation (US$4.8 million) including conservation of wild crop relatives. The
Global Environment Trust was to fund this.

        OED rates outcome satisfactory, in agreement with the ICR, sustainability non-
evaluable compared with likely for the ICR, and institutional development substantial in
agreement with the ICR. Bank performance is rated as satisfactory compared to highly
satisfactory and Borrower performance is rated satisfactory in agreement with the ICR.

                                                X


On the issue of sustainability, the non-evaluable rating is because of uncertainties about
the sustainability of parts of the forest planting due to grazing pressure, but against a
long-term decline in grazing pressures nationally, and uncertainties about what elements
of the interactive community and government processes will survive. A Bank
performance of highly satisfactory in the ICR is assessed as too favorable although there
were a number of aspects of strong Bank performance, including the introduction of a
participatory approach in a very traditional society and the achievement of exceptional
institutional coordination. But there were some weaknesses in strategy, community forest
management and land policy issues, assessment of treatable rangeland, identifying and
targeting the poorer households and women, and early attention to M&E, especially the
measurement of soil and water impact.

        The main project achievements included the establishment of community based
participation processes mainly involving consultation and using a problem solving
community interaction technique with villages mapped to micro-watershed catchments. It
did not reach as far as achieving what is understood today as community driven
development including control over financial resources and often communal land assets
too. It achieved the planting of nearly 100,000ha of trees and other treatments on forest
department land -about 50 percent higher than the target, and substantial funding of
agriculture supporting activities, although somewhat below target, including irrigation
aimed partly at compensating for the loss of benefits on closed forestland areas. These
achievements should reduce soil loss and flooding but with the largest impact in the
longer-term and not yet measurable. The main weaknesses include the failure to achieve
any significant portion of the substantial planned rangeland rehabilitation due partly to
issues related to land ownership; the limited progress on establishing sustained processes
that effectively raise the voice of women and the poorer households; and, concerns about
project sustainability both at community level and government level in the absence of a
follow-on project or some other government supported means to fully consolidate these
new processes.

        The five main lessons are: (i) Pre-existing administrative or community processes,
with risks of elite capture, often need to be challenged to accommodate the needs of
women and the poorer households. (ii) Generally it takes more than the span of one
project to develop and sustain new processes and skills to support community-driven
development. (iii) Policies related to community forest management rights and
responsibilities need careful analysis and possibly enabling legislative action in advance
of a natural resources management project. (iv) In a project with substantial
environmental objectives and often complex treatment trade-offs it is important to
measure at least local environmental impacts. (v) In watershed treatments there are
important issues of depth versus coverage, with potential trade-offs between high
cost/high impact treatments on smaller land areas and low-cost low impact treatments on
larger land areas.



                                                               Gregory K. Ingram
                                                               Director-General
                                                               Operations Evaluation

                                                1


 Background

 1.      The government of Turkey has been attaching increasing priority to sustainable
 environmental management and natural resource conservation. Soil erosion is one of the
 most serious problems affecting the sustainability of agriculture. Approximately 16
 million hectares are affected, over 70 percent of the cultivated or grazed land area. It is a
 particularly severe problem in the three provinces initially selected under the project
 which are in the upper watershed of the Euphrates River Elazig, Malatya, and
                                                            -
 Adiyaman. Over one-third of the land in Turkey has slopes of more than 20 percent.
 Turkey has 21 million hectares of cultivated land about 3.6 million hectares of which are
 irrigated. The country is largely self-sufficient in food and has substantial agricultural
 exports. Agricultural GDP growth rate averaged 1.4percent over the period 1982to
 1992, then 1.1percent over the period 1992 to 2002, but with wide fluctuationsrecently
with 2001 at -6% and 2002 at +7.6%.About four million households are engaged in
 agriculture.Agriculture is 13percent of GDP. Crops contribute about a half of agriculture
 GDP, animal products about a third and forestry and fisheries the remainder.

2.       Cultivated land is dominated by cereal production accounting for nearly 50
percent of the cultivated area. Rangeland, accounting for about 16percent of area, have
been reduced substantially in area over the recent decades as fertility declined and as
sloping land has been brought under cultivation. But livestock numbers have fallen too.
Farmland is largely privately owned. Average farm size is about 6.5 hectares.
Fragmentation of holdings is an increasing issue making soil and moisture conservation
more difficult. Poor management of rangeland has increased pressure on forestland. Only
about 40 percent of forestland is classified as productive. The mountainous areas of
Eastern Anatolia are among the least developed areas of Turkey. The main agricultural
sector objectives of the Government of Turkey are to: (a) modernize production
techniques, to raise productivity, yields, and farmers incomes and to reduce dependence
on the weather; (b) maintain the food requirements of the population; and (c) promote
agricultural exports.

3.      The Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (EAWRP) was a natural
resource management project in selected micro-catchments of the upper watersheds of
the Euphrates River. Treatment in the initial three provinces of Elazig, Malatya, and
Adiyaman was planned to reach about 250,000 hectares on a total three province area of
2.9 million hectares -   a coverage of about 9 percent of total Provincial land area. In the
event the total actual area achieved was about 160,000hectares, but in 11provinces,
much reducing the percentage coverage but the intention was to spread the pilot
participatory process experience more widely. The areas selected, being in critical sub-
watersheds, had a disproportionate contribution to erosion. The shift Rural human
population has been falling in Elazig and Malatya but was still rising somewhat in
Adiyaman. It was the first project of its type in Turkey to be built around a community
participation approach to enable a negotiated balancing of longer-term watershed
management treatments such as closure and afforestation of degraded hillsides with
shorter term income generating investment such as improved forage crops, irrigation, and
horticulture. The objectives of the project were stated as: to "helpto restore sustainable
range,forest andfarming activities in the upper watersheds of the threeproject
provinces, reducing soil degradation, erosion and sedimentation in reservoirs as well as

                                                2


 increasingproductivity and incomes in this impoverished region of Turkey." These
 objectives were to be pursued by efforts to improve productivity of range and forestland,
 promote production of fuelwood, fodder, and more sustainable use of marginal lands,
 facilitate the adoption of treatments for range and forestland to yield quick benefits, and
 to ensure increased involvement of local communities. A key underlying objective was
 environmental rehabilitation of degraded land. There was also a component for genetic
 resources conservation of indigenous species.

 4.      Components. There were five main components:(a) Watershed Rehabilitation
 (US$58.7 million base costs), including technical farming packages, improved range and
 management on communal rangeland, increased productivity of government owned
 forestland widely used by villagers, and strengthening of the Forestry, Agriculture and
 Rural Services Directorates; (b) Income Supporting Activities (US$22.8 million)
 including beekeeping, horticulture, upgrading livestock, terracing, and small-scale
 irrigation. (c) Planning and Management (US$5.9 million); (d) Applied Research
 (US$0.8 million); and, (e) In Situ Gene Conservation (US$4.8 million) including
 conservation of wild crop relatives. The Global Environment Fund (GEF) was to fund
 this. The latter was not evaluated in depth as a part of this PPAR. That would have called
 for a specialist mission. But the documentation of performance was reviewed.

 5.      The heart of the project was the community participation processes. While this
process took some time to become fully established, essentially the approach involved:

      P initial visits by technical specialists to communities in the potential selected
          micro-catchments (there are a number of communities in each micro-catchment);

      P meetings with the muktar (the elected village leader -a form of village mayor);
      >   one or more open village meetings with the community;

      P a so-called Farmer-Centered, Problem-Census, Problem Solving (FCPCPS)
          Exercise in which, with the help of facilitators, technical staff, and the muktar,
          each family writes down lists of problems, consolidates these in small groups,
         then the small groups offer findings to a plenary to develop a final village list;

      P this list is then prioritized and technical staff offer ideas about how the project
         could help. Options for closing grazed areas are discussed at this point. The
         community, at any point, is given the option to reject project assistance;

     9 individual households arethen selected aspotential beneficiaries andeventually
         have to sign a Memorandum of Understanding.

6.       With slow disbursement and depreciation of the currency, a substantial
expenditure shortfall resulted in a decision in 1997 and then again in 1999to expand the
number of micro-catchments (MC) tackled from the initial 54 in 3 provinces to a final 87
in 11provinces. The aim was to spread the experience more widely. There were some
delays with these and some MCs were unable to complete investments before project
closure. Final project cost after a one year extension was US$78.3 million against
US$109.8 million appraisal estimate.

                                                         3


Findings

7 .        The project largely delivered what it intended with respect to inputs (as opposed
to outcomes or outputs) in the selected micro-catchments on forest land and arable land
-   but there was failure on rangeland. In other words, trees were planted, terraces were
constructed, and agriculture was improved, especially forage, but there was limited
change in range areas. Whether the inputs put in place will translate into the intended
longer-term impacts such as reduced flooding and sedimentation in dams it is too early to
say. At costs of around $400 up to $750 per hectare, there are questions about the
efficiency of resource allocation and about the national capacity to scale up. There were
weaknesses in directing benefits towards women and the poorer households and in
M&LE.~     With respect to processes, important experience was gained by the public sector
with community based participation. But this was not really a full Community Driven
Development project as understood today. Communities were consulted but had limited
control over decisions and none over the management of financial resources. Whether
these processes can be sustained and taken further is uncertain. There was very good                       -
unprecedented in Turkey -coordination between ministries and departments The
lessons have been quite well accommodated in the follow-on project design. However, it
now appears uncertain, perhaps even unlikely, that this project will proceed due to lack of
commitment in some government ministries. Whether this reflects insufficient
commitment on the community approach itself or whether it is simply a temporary
budget expediency is still unclear.

8.        Findings of particular importance include the following:

     e    The project achieved a nationally important learning experience through a series
          of first steps with rural community participatory approaches (para 14). although it
          was not a full CDD approach.

     e    useful national rural coordination experience (para 31)'.
          Inter-agency coordination was exceptionally strong and has provided a very


     a    There were impressive technical achievements in afforestation of degraded
          hillsides with shorter-term impacts on local flooding and possibly local soil loss
          and much longer-term impacts on basin sedimentation (para 13).But, unless
          expanded greatly, the latter will be modest in scale because it is such a small
          percentage of the total basin.

    e    A total actual project cost per household of about US$2000 per household is high
         relative to many comparable projects (para 26). At this cost, and with treatment

3. Annex C gives selected quotes from Focus Group meetings and individual interviews.
4. The Bank Region notes rightly that good cooperation is always easier at provincial level where line
agency staff know one another and are more likely to mix socially but is more difficult at central level in
capital cities, OED agrees that in this case the central level coordination was greatly facilitated by task
management from Ankara with the task manager ensuring that staff from different ministries met every two
weeks. The Region notes that somehow such coordination at the center needs to be institutionalized better,
not only in this sector.

                                                     4

          costs reaching as high as US$750 per hectare, there are questions about the extent
          to which it can be scaled up. To get coverage there is a need to vigorously explore
          lower cost treatments, perhaps simply closure.

     0    The Impact Study claims a more than doubling of incomes over three years but
          the methodology is problematic and, in fact, real incomes have fallen (para 29).
          However, it is difficult to separate project impacts from recent economy-wide
          changes.

     0   Nearly half the project costs were for plantations on government land. There are
          some questions about the extent to which different types of household were really
         interested in this or simply went along with it to get the shorter-term agriculture
         benefits (para 19).Pressures to open grazing can be expected to continue.

     0   Four effective project years is rarely enough to reach sustainabilityof community
         processes, particularly since in this case those processes had only reached an early
         stage of process development (para 44) With the project now closed, it is
                                                        .5
         doubtful whether sustainableprocesses have really been built to last. There is
         little evidence of similar decision-making in other community endeavors, except
         in one or two cases of project-created Water Users Associations. Possibly the
         recently proposed government decentralization will help in due course.

Lessons

9.       There are five main generic lessons (more specific lessons for Turkey are in the
Future Directions section):
      >   As has been found in other cases, preexisting administrative or community
          processes, with risks of elite capture, need to be challenged to accommodate the
          needs of women and the poorer households. This will be so even if the main
          elements of the traditional structure are found to be essentially workable. It is
          especially so in cases such as this where elected officials may face conflicting
          incentives as both people's representatives and answerable to a government
          department. (paras 33 and 44)
      >   This project, and wider experiences, suggest that generally it takes more than the
          span of one project to develop and sustain new processes and skills to support
          community-driven development. But experience suggests that with longer
          support agreed criteria for phased exit at community level need to be developed
          early in the process (paras 14and 44).
      >   Policies related to community forest management rights and responsibilities need
          careful analysis and possibly enabling legislative action in advance of a natural
          resources management project. In this case there was insufficient attention to
          incentives for community forest management (para 39).

5. While the project lasted seven years, community processes were really only fully functioning for four
years.

                                                      5

       >   In a project with substantial environmental objectives, and often complex
           efficacy and efficiency treatment trade-offs, it is important to measure at least
           local environmental impacts (para 22). This data may later be modelled into
           broader environmental impacts as treatment coverage spreads.
       >   In watershed treatments there are depth vs. coverage trade-offs between high
           codhigh impact/lower coverage treatments and low-cost/low impact/higher
           coverage treatments. These need careful exploration at appraisal alongside
           "without project" scenarios to approach optimal overall impact (para 24.

Future Directions

 10.      This paragraph offers specifically Turkey-oriented lessons with the focus mostly
on the sector. There is strong learning from the first project evident in the design of the
follow-on project      -  learning that has come from both the borrower and the Bank.
Unfortunately, it appears that the follow-on project is now uncertain. Whether this is
evidence of insufficient commitment to community-driven development approachesper
se or a more temporary prioritization concern within a tightening budget is not clear.
However, a number of issues warrant attention for the future.

     0    Continued focus on policy, particularly related to the Constitutional constraints to
          increased community role in forest management and the incentives for marginal
          areas cultivation provided by the flat-rate direct subsidy (para 39).

     0    Greater attention to challenging traditional community decision processes, in
          particular to demonstrate additional processes of wornens' consultation and
          poverty targeting including ensuring the inclusion of semi-nomadic livestock
          herders (paras 33 and 44)6.

     0    A program to rapidly generate technical data for assessment of least cost impact
          in different soils and slopes (para

     0    Greater attention to off-farm income support (para 29). Out-migration will be the
          future for many households, projects may be able to assist this process.

     0    The setting up-front of community process-related targets with trigger points for
          phased graduation from intensive support (para 44)              .'


6. The Bank Region argues that communities (and governments) get rather tired of process changes and
want to see investments on the ground. OED agrees but notes that the report is not suggesting process
change alone.
7. For example, even after many years of project treatment it is still not clear how full forest planting
compares to partial, compares to deep-ripping, compares to open grazing, compares to closure, compares to
alternative grazing management systems, etc. with respect to soil retention and flood reduction or useable
forage production.
8. Difficulty in developing graduation criteria would be symptomatic of an as yet incomplete establishment
of participatory community processes in the first place.

                                                       6


 Analysis

 OUTCOME

 11.      Outcome is rated satisfactory on balance, mainly due to the substantially
 environmental focus of the objectives and the good achievements in planting of forest
 lands and intensifying agriculture. But there are a number of important reservations. The
 project was relevant, although the environment/welfare balance was probably not what
 communities (with incomplete environmental knowledge) would have voted for. Efficacy
 was ,on balance, substantial. Efficiency is also rated substantial,but with some concerns
 about low forestry returns, the high costs per household and per hectare, and the
 possibility of better cost effectiveness for long-term impacts of foresthange treatments by
 spreading investments more broadly but more thinly. Moreover, it is difficult to entirely
 divorce concerns about sustainability-rated non-evaluable                  -   from the outcome rating
 given the sustainability implications in the environmental objective.

 RELEVANCE

 12.      The relevance of the project is assessed, on balance, as
 substantial.However, there is a question          -    the relevance to             Appraisal could have
 whom? If households had been given a free vote on funding                           done a better job in
 allocation it is very doubtful that they would have chosen so                       diagnosis of the
much forest land treatment. However, it is also clear that                           degradation problem in
households do not have the information or the incentive to                           relation to changing
 address such larger issues as reservoir sedimentation. Moreover                     livestock pressures over
wants are not the same as needs. The objectives            -   more                  time and the efficiency of
environmental than growth related, although both are mentioned                       treatment impacts.

-   were clearly consistent with both the Bank's and borrower's
strategy, both at the time of appraisal and now. As a first attempt at a rural community
based participatory intervention it is questionable whether the objectives should have
been stated largely in physical terms rather than in process and social capital terms'. The
substantial environment focus seems to have been pushed even further in implementation.
There appears to be more intent now to pursue 100percent protection in the Forestry
Department (FD) plantings than is implied in the appraisal report economic models. The
project was characterized by both project and Bank staff as being 60:40 in favor of
environment.




9. For example, to get 50% of communities to a point of: having a workable community
informationlcommunication system; having a regularly functioning women's group; having an agreed
process for identification of the disadvantaged; having a certain level of skills in financial management;
having a rangeland management system operating, or at least being tested; having an agreed set of
community development targets and a project support exit strategy; having a women's savings and loan
group; collecting maintenance fees to a certain minimum level, etc..

                                                         7




  Box 1: Did Appraisal Correctly Diagnose the Degradation Problem?

 The preparation reports did, largely, identify the key issues and parameters, but these was not translated very
  clearly at appraisal into the project strategy. With some benefit from hindsight, the elements of the strategic
  argument appear to be the following. While data is limited, soil loss and flooding is due to three broad causes:
  (i) steep and still rising elevations (mountain building) contributing to some unavoidable geological erosion
  and flooding (which might be temporarily slowed by treatments but which cannot be prevented); (ii) loss of
 vegetation due to excessive grazing or fuelwood cutting many hundreds, if not thousands, of years ago,
 amenable to some treatment depending on slopes but leaving now severely eroded hillsides with very low
 potential; (iii) loss of vegetation cover due to more recent pressures, more amenable to treatment depending on
 migration takes place, as alternative fuels become available, and as real wages rise and herding is abandoned .
 location. Overlaid on these scenarios is thefalling human and animal pressures in most areas as urban

 In many of the forestry models, by maturity (many 60 to 100years), much of these areas will be recreational.
 Overlaid again on this scenario should be the technical evidence relating the impact of alternative treatments
 across a wide cost range on soil loss and hydrology. The grazing relationship is a critical aspect of this. The
 relationship between livestock pressure and erosion and water in such dryland areas is usually extremely
 complex. Unfortunately neither preparation nor the project was able to generate sufficient data. Just how
 degraded these areas really are was not clear at the outset and is not clear now, nor even whether closure is
 best for erosion. While the decline in livestock pressure may result over time in vegetation cover
 improvements, it is also possible that, at least for an interim period, lack of livestock pressure may be a cause
 of either slower recovery or further deterioration. (This would be due to lack of sometimes beneficial soil
 disturbance by animal hooves and due to accumulation of smothering uneaten dry material.) While touched on
 in disparate ways in the preparation reports, the appraisal report missed an opportunity to fully collate and
 analyze these issues in the light of the very long timeframes of the past degradation and the future forestry
 models and to assemble them into a convincing treatment strategy matrix. This was done somewhat better at
 the micro-catchment level but project level strategic coherence could have been much better articulated.


EFFICACY

13.       Overall, efficacy      -   the extent to which the project
objectives were achieved taking into account their relative
importance -is rated substantial, but with three                               Targets were more than
important qualifications. First, impact data is weak,                          achieved on forestland,

although one would not expect to see ultimate basin                            not quite fully achieved
                                                                               on arable land, and
impacts quickly. The main objective of the project was: "to                    barely touched on
restore sustainable range, forest, and fanning activities in
the upper watersheds of the three Provinces ....." yet data                    rangeland. But significant
                                                                               incremental
to assess the actual erosion and sedimentation impacts of                      environmental impact
the project in the Euphrates watershed, either at the                          lower in the basin on any
regional or even local level, are not available. One would                     scale with respect to such
not expect to measure attributable impacts far down in a                       impacts as sedimentation
basin over a project timeframe but one might measure                           will not be measurable for
more localized changes. At the community level, there was                      many years.
some anecdotal evidence of impact on sedimentation of
small dams close to the treatment areas and of reduced village flooding in large rainfall
events. But for these impacts to be felt in the major reservoirs lower in the system it can
be expected to take between ten and a hundred years or more given the typical residence
time for the movement of particles down basins. Second, while tree planting covered a

                                                        8


substantial area (over 70,000 ha), improved management of range areas barely started
partly because of unclear land ownership. Third,the attributable project incremental
impact on the environment is difficult to assess since livestock pressures are falling in
most areas even without the project and since a significant percentage of erosion is
probably geological in nature. The number of micro-catchments treated was 87 against
the appraisal target of 54. The table below indicates the main physical achievements.
Efficacy, in this case, has been assessed against the background of the very tradtional
initial social situation and the lack of any previous experience with participation.
Relatively, substantial strides were made in a new direction for Turkey.

Area Achievements Against Planned Indicators

output                                                        Projected SAR Actual
                                                                   (ha)      (ha)
                                    "                             -"-I
Forest land (MOF)                                                62,370     95,316
Rangeland (MARA)                                                 116,312    2,382
Arable Land (MARA)                                               38,167     29,810
Agriculture Supporting Activities                                22,334     19,558
(mostly horticulture and irrigation) (MARA)
Irrigation Supporting Activities plus rainfed terraces (KHGM)     10,530    12,368


How Effective Were Community Processes?

14.       The project was a valuable first learning experience in community participation.
However, it was not a Community Driven Development (CDD) project as is understood
today. It was a community-based participatory intervention representing a first step on   '

the CDD ladder. Moreover, there were limited sustained changes in community decision-
making processes. However, there was at least a temporary grafting on of additional
processes and substantial skill transfer in participatory processes and a great deal was
learned in a quite conservative social environment. Project and borrower staff claim that
community members have learned to be more demanding of performance from public
agencies and to be given more say in project selection.

                                                             9



Box 2: How Effective and Efficient was the Project in Reaching the Poor?

         The main aim of the project was avowedly environmental, even more so in implementation. It was apparently
made clear at community meetings that there would be gainers and losers but the aim was to offer alternative income
sources where possible. Moreover nearly all were expected to benefit in some way from the environmental gains.
There is little doubt from field visits that there have been some short-term losers, in particular landless livestock
owners. However, generally it appeared that most muktars had attempted to allocate compensatory benefits, especially
those not requiring land (e.g.,apiculture), to the disadvantaged. However, some benefit packages such as apiculture
presented problems being demanding of management.

         Overall, the poverty impact evidence is somewhat ambiguous. The majority of livestock are owned by the
wealthier households, although they may employ the poor to herd. In fact, in some communities the larger livestock
owners tried to stop the project to avoid closing grazing areas. However, there are also many poor who own smaller
numbers of livestock but for whom these are a bigger share of income. With few other assets these owners have almost
certainly lost. Some were reported to have left the village. However, the Impact Study (1998 baseline and 2001
follow-up survey), suggests some progressive impact -farm incomes at the bottom end of the range rose more than at
the top end or fell less. But with many of the project interventions technically linked to land or water source ownership
there were technical reasons for some unavoidable bias towards the less poor.

         Loss of grazing has been significant although closure has never covered all village land. In theforestland
component, grazing closure has been from 5 to 7 years and in many cases permanent. Thinnings forfuelwood are
mostly available by year 10.The agreed benefit sharing of 20 percent of timber output to the community at 40 percent
of the market price -about 8 percent of total value -would be received in not less than about 60 years, so far into
the future as to be irrelevant. (Such areas will be largely recreational by then.) In the rangeland components, closure
was for five years with cut-and-carry or grazing after that depending on circumstances. After the initial willingness to
agree to grazing closure in return for the immediate high-value compensatory benefits such as irrigation, forage crops,
apiculture, horticulture treatments etc., and with those benefits now no longer holding leverage, incentives to open up
closed areas for grazing are increasing in a number of villages and can be expected to escalate further in the future.

                                                     10


 15.     There were strengths and weaknesses in the process changes. Strengths included
community meetings with government technical staff and community leaders and the
discussion of investment options and prioritization within a problem-solving protocol.
Technical choices     -   in the past often made almost entirely by government -were
discussed openly with the community; individual households had a say in the selection of
investment or training options. There was generally increased information for those who
wished to seek it out, but many did not or could not." Weaknesses included the fact that,
based on mission discussions, there appear to have been many people who did not attend
the opening meetings and many, probably most, women seem to have known little about
the project. In the process of collective decision-making, if the majority agreed to an
action it was considered by the project accepted by the community, raising some
questions about the extent to which the disadvantaged were truly heard. There was no
significant movement towards shifting forest management responsibility to communities,
although there is the intention to do this. Finally, the traditional structure and processes
with the muktar     -  as both an elected people's representative and a paid government
representative   -   remains essentially unchanged with some evident conflicts of interest.

How Effective Was the Traditional Catchment Approach Overlaid on the
Community Approach?

16.      The project attempted to blend a technical watershed approach, in which
investments were substantially determined by location of land and water resources, with a
bottom-up participatory approach in which communities and individuals were being
asked to make choices. The dilemma presented by this was raised in a letter from FA0
during project preparation. It was resolved on the ground to some extent through the
problem-solving procedure itself but, as in other natural resource management projects,
inevitably with tensions. The appropriate stance to take in such projects on this dilemma
is by no means obvious. Development professionals with social skills tend to put people's
wants paramount. Development professionals with technical skills tend to put soil and
water exigencies paramount. In the end, the technical realities that water does not flow
uphill and plants will not grow without water dictates much of what can be done in
agriculture. Yet these realities should not preclude a starting point of people's needs and a
focus on incentives to reward the achievement of objectives. In this project, there was
more of a technical starting point than most -partly arising from the limited soil and
water related investment options determined prior to the community prioritization
exercises. In this case, since water sources were invariably springs, those who were able
to benefit from associated irrigation structures had to be those who had access to the
springs. With a limited community budget, such investments had opportunity costs.
Some, but by no means all of the potential losers, were accommodated with other
investments. There was also the often encountered dilemma that catchments do not
coincide with administrative or community boundaries resulting in vehement complaints
in at least one community visited that one hamlet over the ridge had been left out.




10.For example, of 11 in a focus group discussion in Elmali, Malatya, none had attended the early
planning meetings. In another village 2 of 12present had attended.

                                               11


 How Effectively Were Skills Transferred?

 17.    Quite well. Government staff and community skills developed under the project in
 the FCPCPS technique, and the marrying of that with technical project design, should
 remain valuable for later agricultural extension work and, more broadly, for community
 work with other agencies, but only if such newly found skills are continually exercised.
 Also, for example, under the project selected farmers were taken to see successful micro-
 catchments to transfer knowledge and experience.

 Project Readiness

 18.    In any project which takes 8 years to closing and still only disburses 75 percent-
 and most of that in the last four years-   there must be questions about readiness and
whether the timeframe was realistic. While the QAG review praised Quality at Entry, the
very slow start is a negative factor in rating efficacy with also a negative impact on
efficiency. However, the rapid catching up done in later years is a counterbalancing
factor. Moreover, OED has generally found that community driven development projects
should expect, and plan for, a slow start up as participatory processes are established and
community confidences gained. In many respects it is not an uncertain process. Slow
build up can be predicted.

Efficacy of the Community Approach in Forestry

 19.    It is unusual for an environment-focused Bank-funded project to have no
handover of forest management responsibility to communities. The project could
probably have done more in this direction. The FD argues that the Constitution does not
allow this. But they have begun to experiment. The problem for increased community
forestry involvement in this very dry environment is that harvestable forest benefits are
mostly very far in the future, in some cases over a hundred years. However, there are also
some shorter term benefits and there are surely enough sites where more community
management at least could have been experimented with. Turkey lags far behind most
other countries on this issue. There are questions about the extent to which the forestry
plantations, the largest single component, were really in tune with community wishes.
These were on Forest Department (FD) land but, following the project strategy, now
placed there with some agreement with the community. Prior to the project such works
were undertaken compulsorily, resulting in unhappy relationships. Selected communities
generally went along with the plantations but it would be surprising if they did not given
the incentive of immediate high value compensatory agriculture benefits.

Efficacy of Technical Work

20.     Generally technical work during preparation, appraisal and implementation was
sound. There were some technical weaknesses during preparation and appraisal, partly
due to consultant recommendations, for example the recommendation to test aerial
seeding in range situations. Aerial seeding has rarely been successful or economic in dry
zones and, in any case, aerial seeding experiments can be replicated usually at much
lower costs by hand broadcasting using low cost labor (which also allows guidance

                                                       12


 through training on the seeding of promising localized niches, e.g.,depressions, gully
 heads to carry seed set downhill, etc.). However, in this case, both government and the
 Bank were quick to recognize the weakness here and abandon aerial seeding.

 Efficacy of the GEF Component

 21.      With the associated GEF Grant covering the In Situ Conservation of Genetic
 Resources Diversity Project, there was support for the in situ conservation of genetic
 resources, an important issue since the area is important for a number of forage legumes,
 wild wheats, Lilliaceae and Compositae. This project performed well. It identified a
 number of Gene Management Zones where wild relatives of wheat, legumes, and forest
 species could be conserved. It surveyed for species and did initial stakeholder workshops
 and social studies in 22 villages. It developed a National Plan for In Situ Conservation..
 There was, again, good cooperation between MARA and MOF. Public awareness
material was developed. A GIS center was established. The National Plan gives hope for
 sustainability. However, sustainability is by no means yet assured. Commitment is strong
but funding limitations are a concern since such under budget stress such programs tend
to be seen as luxuries, notwithstanding the generally proven high value of diverse genetic
material.

The Efficacy of Monitoring and Evaluation

22.       As is so often the case, monitoring and evaluation was weak. First, the baseline
survey was not done until 1998, only 3 years before the project closed. Second, for a
substantially environment-focused project there has not been enough measurement of soil
and water impact of different treatments." Now 10years later, there are far too many land
treatment impact unknowns. Valuable time has been lost. The State Planning
Organization, in their comments (Annex C) notes that the responsibilities of all parties
concerning follow-up and evaluation could have been more clearly defined and a
sustainable structure established.

EFFICIENCY

23.       Efficiency is rated substantial on balance - the ERR is likely to be somewhat
above 10percent. The aggregate masks a substantial share of investments with an ERR
well below 10percent counterbalanced by quite high returns from high value irrigated
horticulture, vegetables, and forage12.There are two problems in assessing efficiency.
First, analysis is difficult in such a project with a substantial environmental focus where
many environmental impacts are expected to become evident over a very long period.
Second, there are methodological questions related to the extent to which an aggregate
ERR should be permitted to mask wide ranges in component ERRSi.e economic cross-

11.For example, on different slopes and soils the comparison of costs and impacts of full afforestation,
simple closure, deep ripping, a range of partial lower cost treatments, alternative seeding approaches,
different grazing regimes, etc.
12. The new forage introductions show impressive performance and represent a significant technology
gain.

                                                        13


 subsidies. Detailed re-analysis of the economic rate of return is not possible given the
 resources available and the complexity of environmental benefits,. However, some
 conclusions can be drawn from some sensitivity adjustments and from the economic
 analysis for the proposed follow-on project.

 The Economic Analysis

 24.       The ICR found an ERR of 16%.The analytical methodology appears sound
 although the horticulture and irrigation benefits appear somewhat ~ptimistic'~and the soil
 conservation and afforestation benefit stream appears quite optimistic in the light of the
 level of degradation and the apparent intent to not permit harvesting on substantial areas
of "protection forestry". There are also doubts about sustainability as pressures from
villagers buildI4. But given the dominance of the substantial horticulture and irrigation
benefit streams, even with a 50 percent reduction in forestry benefits sensitivity analysis
done for this PPAR shows that the aggregate ERR does not fall below 15percent.
However, at a 50 percent reduction in forestry benefits the ERR of the forestry
component itself drops to 3 percent. Thus, while in aggregate, the project appears likely
to give an ERR of significantly over 10percent, within that there is a substantial forestry
component that appears uneconomic unless uncounted flood and sedimentation benefits
reach quite high levels fairly quickly Although it is in different areas and of a somewhat
                                                ,
different scale, the economic analysis for the proposed new project suggests that: (i) soil
erosion reduction with positive productivity impacts within the immediate selected
catchments could possibly reach a scale that would significantlyimprove the
afforestation ERR; (ii) annual value of reduced flood losses is unlikely to reach a scale
that would significantly improve the ERR: (iii) sedimentation benefits lower down in the
basin would be much too far in the future to have any significant impact on the ERR even
if the small percentage of land area treated were to
eventually have a measurable impact. With respect to                        Trees were expensive "labels".
allocative efficiency, there is little doubt that other                     Agriculture gave high ERRs,
combinations of investment could have considerably                          forestry low. Some "cross-
raised the ERR, for example more investment on the                          subsidy" may be justified, but,
quicker return forage crops on agricultural land and less                   with high costs of forestry and
                                                                            declining livestock numbers,
on high cost afforestation on steep very dry stony                          greater attention to lower cost
hi1l~ides.l~However, the objective of the project was not                   options using community
simplyproductivity.                                                         management enabling wider
                                                                            coverage could probably have
                                                                            increased total impact.
13.For example, in the significant small-scale irrigation model, while the projected yields themselves are
not unachievable in absolute terms, there is no assumption of rising yields in the "without project"
situation. In fact, there is no assumption of rising "without project" yields anywhere in the analysis. The
State Planning Organization notes correctly (Annex C) that the optimistic profitability ratios in the ERR
analysis did not have sufficient explanation.
14.The forestry assumption of a 5 cubic meter average annual wood increment in the ICR analysis by Year
30 appears very optimistic for such degraded steep hillsides even if it were to be harvested -which seems
not to be the intention with substantial areas. The SAR, also quite optimistic, assumed 3.7 cubic meters by
Year 45.
15.Maturity and harvest are in some cases over 100years, making adequate ERRs very unlikely without
huge supplementary environmental benefits.

                                                        14


 25.       Without large and very quick environmentalbenefits, forestry treatment costs
 averaging about US$400 per hectare, and as high as of US$750 per hectare, are almost
 impossible to recoup in such dry areas. The need for high cost tree planting treatments
 can be attributed partly to the fact that trees have become a form of "signpost" telling
 herders to keep animals out. This is a high cost way of signposting land use unless there
 are also significant economic benefits.

 26.       This was also a relatively high cost project in terms of total costs per household.
 At an actual Total Project Cost per household of $1,958 over 7 years (US$78.33 million
 divided by 40,000households) it is well above, for example, the IFAD average of about
 $420 over about an average 6 year project period and also above high cost NGO
 programs such as the Aga Khan Rural Support Program in Pakistan. (see Table C1 in
 OED 2002 AKRSP Evaluation for some comparators)

 27.       The ICR analysis shows the quicker and higher return agriculture and horticulture
 components to have an ERR range of about 18percent to 30 percent and the much slower
 and inevitably lower return forest land treatments to have an ERR around 10percent. In
 both the SAR and ICR the economic rates of return for the afforestation appear quite
 optimistic against the predominant current view by the Forestry Department that much of
 the planting must remain unharvested as "protection forestry" in order to achieve the
 environmental benefits projected. However, on balance, allowing for uncounted benefits
 in the ICR that are, at least anecdotally, beginning to become evident at the micro-
 catchment level, such as flood damage reduction (reported in two or three communities
visited), small dam sedimentation reduction (reported in one community visited), and
biodiversity benefits, and accepting some element of aggregation of higher return and
lower return components (i.e. economic cross-subsidy), it is concluded that the aggregate
economic rate of return may still be marginally above the opportunity cost of capital,
although probably well below the 17percent claimed.16'"

28.       With respect to allocative efficiency across the
different components, there are clearly uncertainties about
the economics of the longer-term forestry investments                         The methodology estimating
unless considerably greater utilization levels can be                         income increases is incorrect.
expected than are contemplated now, or unless                                 Real incomes actually fell rather
environmental benefits are unusually rapid. It is likely that                 than rose. However, there are no

community pressures for such earlier forest land                              comparators and this is probably

utilization will build (and, if acceded to, probably with                     more an economic downturn
                                                                              impact. Agriculture investments
only modest impact on erosion rates). More broadly,                           were observed to be quite
within the responsible ministries, the project failed to                      profitable at field level.


16. It is not clear from the economic analysis that all public institution overhead costs have been included.
The project cost stream does not appear to include all the substantial costs of government staff involved.
Only those deemed within the project costs tables as incremental where included. This issue of overhead
costs was also a concern of the State Planning Office.
17. While there is limited selling of land in these areas, land price increases over recent years reported in
project villages for both dryland and irrigated land are not inconsistent with a satisfactory ERR in terms of
capitalized land values. But there is insufficient comparative data on "with" and "without project" villages
to be conclusive.

                                                    15


 achieve improved institutional efficiency through reduction in the generally
 acknowledged over-staffing.     '*
 29.     Income Increases. A more than doubling of incomes over three years from the
baseline survey in 1998to the follow-on survey in 2001 was found by the Impact Study.
However, there is a problem with the use of the same US$/Turkish Lira exchange rate for
both years. Average annual On-Farm Income in the base year was TL430 million and
three years later was TL1017 million. At official exchange rates" this would actually give
not a doubling of incomes but a fall from US$1,646 to US$828 per household per annum.
However, this probably also does not adequately reflect real attributable project impact
 for four reasons. First, the 100percent loss in value in one year makes assessment of the
real purchasing power impact at farm gate level difficult. Second, field discussions
suggest that many of those households who did receive project support have gained real
income from those particular investments without obvious losses elsewhere within the
farm system, e.g., due to diverted labor etc. Third, there is anecdotal evidence of reduced
out-migration but whether this is a push or pull factor between sectors is unclear. Fourth,
there are the usual counterfactual problems         -  what would have happened without the
project? Regardless of average income data, there were still many households who did
not receive direct project benefits and some who have lost grazing from forest or range
closure. Aggregate estimates suggest that on average about 25 percent of households
benefited directly. Sample estimates at community-level during field visits for the
percentage who did not benefit ranged from about 40 percent to 60 percent. For example,
in Yaygim village in Malatya the attending group estimated that about 60 percent had
benefited and about 40 percent had lost in some way. With a transitioning economy and
sector increasing attention will be needed in future to off-farm income opportunities.

Cost Recovery

30.     For some of the private investments cost recovery was relatively low          - for
example, in irrigation with generally high returns, it was only 3 percent to 5 percent.
Considering the relative asset wealth in the community of those with irrigable land and
exploitable water resources in the form of springs, and considering that project resources
were unable to assist often as many as half the households, such low contributions raise
efficiency questions related to resource allocation and equity. Larger contributions, at
least by identified less poor households, would have allowed greater spread of benefits.

INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT

31.     Institutional development is rated, on balance, as substantial, but it was variable
across different elements and there are questions related to sustainability. Bringing
together the three main agencies involved was an impressive feat that was widely
acknowledged at local level, at provincial and central level, and by NGOs. It has set an
example that hopefully will be followed in other interventions in future, even outside the
sector. It appears to have been due to strong ownership at the start, particularly good

18.The Ministry of Forestry has about 35,000 staff and Ministry of Agriculture 80,000.
19. 1998:US$l= TL261,604; 2001: US$l = TL1,228,367

                                                      16


 project leadership, and close supervision by the Bank, particularly from the local office.
 Also, as often is the case, the timing was right. The agencies involved were ready and
 receptive for a new more participatory approach. Good training was provided and the
 Bank brought skills in this area both directly through Bank missions and indirectly
 through consultants. But with the project now closed, and no follow-on project in the
 program to date, there are now questions about whether this government organizational
 cooperation can be sustained.

 32.      The extent to which institutional processes really changed at community level is
 less clear. The project used the existing system with the village muktar as the leader.
 While elected by the village and supported by elected (unpaid) elders, the muktar is paid
 a salary as a government servant. There are therefore
 inevitable loyalty tensions. He (it is invariably a man,                      The project could have
 although there have been a few women muktars) is very                         "challenged the system''
 much a local politician. Many vote for him because he                         more in the areas of
 seems the most likely to pull in public funds. Indeed, in                     womens' and poorer
 several community meetings with the mission it was clear                      households'
 that government funding support, whether it be through a                      involvement.
Bank project or from other sources, was seen by rural
households as a right and the muktar was expected to deliver
 on such entitled central support. The project itself, however, had a relatively narrow
menu of investment options linked mainly to improved natural resource management.
Moreover, management of contractors remained in the hands of the technical departments
and focus group meetings found some community concerns about quality with limited
redress.

33.       Under the project, using this existing administrative system and simply adding the
community planning processes and consultation to it was clearly the easiest route to take.
Was it the most effective? Totally changing a long established administrative system
would have been unrealistic for a single rural project. However, this assessment
concludes that greater challenging ofthat system in the areas of women's involvement
including the development of informal women leaders, in targeting, and in participation
and in special identification and consultation with the poorer households                -   something
done in many other community-based projects              -   would have helped the growth and
equity elements of the objective and in due course enhanced sustainability''. While the
project FCPCPS communityproblem solving procedures appear to have addressed "elite
capture" to some extent, there were still clearly a number of "losers".




20. The Region in the Bank argues that in assessing the extent to which established power structures were
sufficiently challenged one needs to remember that the project was designed after the first Iraq war and
when Kurdish conflict was at its height and there were virtually no NGOs in that part of Turkey.
Challenging the established structure would have been unrealistic. OED accepts this to some extent but
notes that the report is suggesting not a fundamental overturning but significant adjustments in processes
towards accommodating the needs of women and the poor. The Region also argues that targeting the
poorest within already selected poor areas might have been an instance of the best being the enemy of the
good given the often-faced dilemma of growth versus poverty. While acknowledging such trade-offs, OED
would argue that there were still some untaken opportunities in this direction.

                                                       17


 Did Women or the Poor Get Much Say in Prioritizing Investments?

 34.     The focus group findings (see selected extracts in Annex B) suggested that
 women and the poor had only a limited voice in the prioritizing of investments,
 particularly women. In particular, the project was unable to significantly increase the role
 of women in community leadership, although greater consultation with women was
 achieved. However, allowance must be made for the enormous social constraints to
 greater wornens' involvement in this very traditional Islamic society. Men at meetings
 noted that their women had not attended planning meetings but that, "they always
 discussed these things at home." There were meetings for women during the planning
process but only a few women interviewed in focus groups had attended these. The
poorer households had the opportunity to participate and received some benefits but, as
noted earlier, lack of land limited their investment options. It appeared that substantial
numbers of people did not attend the initial planning meetings. (For example, in Elmali
village in Malatya none of the 11men present at the focus group meeting recalled
 attending the initial project planning meetings.) Reasons range from not knowing about
them, to not being interested, to not being in the village at the time. The semi-nomadic
pastoralists almost certainly had no say", but in most communities there are relatively
few.

NGO Involvement

35.      There was an intention to involve NGOs but this did not eventuate. Earlier NGO
involvement during preparation would probably have helped. Negotiations were held
between government and one NGO but could not be concluded to the satisfaction of both
parties. There appear to have been some concerns from the NGO side about the extent of
freedom they would have and about the scale of resources. The limited number of NGOs
with rural natural resource management skills in Turkey makes a significant NGO role in
such a project difficult and not one that can be created artificially. The intent under the
proposed follow-on project was to increase NGO involvement to the extent possible.

BANKPERFORMANCE

36.      Bank performance was, on balance, satisfactory, but there were some areas of
weakness in strategy and policy and the Bank could have pushed further, even at mid-
term, towards challenging the community decision processes in the direction of
identifying and targeting the poor and involving women. Legal rangeland ownership
issues and associated data were clearly not adequately understood at appraisal. The
project started with a target of 116,000ha, the largest of all the land sub-component
targets, and ended with a little over 2000 ha, the smallest of all the achievements.
However, with respect to knowledge transfer, at central, provincial, and community level,
there was quite widespread acknowledgment that the Bank had brought new ideas related
to community participation processes, although one or two project antecedents were also


21. They come and go with seasonal change and often are renting pasture through a local intermediary who,
being local, has a better chance of renting the grazing rights from either government or communities, and
who then sells on this right -at a substantial premium.

                                                       18


 noted. There was a slow and fmstrating start for the first three years partly related to
 over-optimism in planning but both Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision was
 assessed as Best Practice by a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review in 19982223.

 37.      The pattern of many of the initial strengths and weaknesses continued through the
 project, supporting the frequent OED finding that many project problems emanate from
 the design stage and are difficult to correct later. As noted, notwithstanding some strong
 preparation and appraisal work, appraisal did not quite pull it all together into a coherent
 strategy (see Box 1).

 38.      In supervision, Bank performance was generally strong                -    after a slow start.
 Project Supervision reports were valuable.24The 1995Mid-Term Review pointed to some
 new directions. However, M&E remained weak which was clearly a supervision
 responsibility. The decision to extend to new areas so late in the project could be
 challenged since it has left some community investments uncompleted, but, on balance,
 this decision to use savings substantially created by exchange rate changes to spread the
 experience more widely was probably the right one, although it somewhat loses its appeal
 in hindsight in the absence of a follow-on project.

 Did the Bank do Enough on the Policy Front?

 39.      Probably not, although policy changes with national implications may often not
 be achievable in association with a project for a limited number of provinces. There were
 three policies with significant implications for project achievement. First, the
 constitutional and legislative constraints to community forest management. There was
 insufficient focus on creating the incentives for community forest management, although
FD is now addressing this issue more directly. Second, the direct farm subsidy of about
US$50 per hectare regardless of land quality (which encourages the cultivation of
otherwise unprofitable marginal lands). The Bank should probably have made more effort
to at least initiate analytical work and dialogue on both these issues25.The third important


22. The following strengths were noted in that review: the strong community participation in a country
previously highly centralized; the coordination among ministries; the increased focus in participating
ministry services; the contribution to national policy on rangelands; the combination of good external
expertise and good local knowledge during preparation; the project flexibility; the teamwork, persistence,
and quality of Bank input; and the "learning by doing" nature of the project. Areas needing improvement
included: the lack of quantitative and qualitative project impact data and lack of serious monitoring and
evaluation as a management tool; the need for improvement in some of the technologies; the need for
improved staff incentives; the need for a greater role by the Ministry of Agriculture in agriculture research;
the potential for decentralization of funding allocation; and the need for clarification of maintenance
responsibilities.
23. The State Planning Organization points out correctly (see Annex C) that initial cost estimates were
unrealistically high.
24. For example, frequently missions drew the borrower's attention to the lack of research on rangeland
treatment and sedimentation rates, an issue raised by this report and, for example, in 1998, a supervision
mission raised the important issue of nomadic livestock producers in the development of micro-catchment
plans in the new Toros Mountain areas.
25. The Bank Region argues with respect to feasibility of upfront legislative changes that project
implementation took place at a time when there was difficulty with moving ahead with the broader

                                                       19


 policy area was the Rangeland Law enabling greater community management of
 rangelands. This was passed during the project after, apparently, a 37 year delay, but, by
 1998,this was really too late for much project impact given the uncertainties of range
 ownership found during early project implementation26.

 BORROWER        PERFORMANCE

 40.      Borrower performance is rated satisfactory but there were some weaknesses. The
 borrower was committed to the project and provided very strong leadership in achieving
 the inter-departmental coordination between the Department of Reforestation and Erosion
 Control (AGM) within MOF, the General Directorate of Production and Development
 (TUGEM), the General Directorate for Agricultural Research (TAGEM), and the General
 Directorate of Rural Services (KHGM) within the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
 Affairs (MARA) . Technical skills and support at field level was observed to be generally
 strong, albeit with weaknesses in focus on treatment impact. However, the project did get
 off to a very slow start with implementation mainly because of lack of readiness and
 over-optimism about the establishment of communityprocesses and the development of
 staff skills. But it is rare to find a CDD project that is not over-optimistic in these areas.
Financial procedures and budget constraints reduced expenditure capacity. KHGM
performance was particularly impacted by budget constraints.

SUSTAIN    ABILITY

41.       On balance, sustainability is rated non-evaluable, based on a weighting of several
elements. The objectives of the project as stated
were, essentially, ". .. to restore sustainable (land               There are large uncertainties
management) in the upper watersheds". There are                     about both Physical and
a number of concerns about sustainabilitybut also,                                sustainability*The
given the very long-term impact of these objectives                scale of future pressure on forest
and the lack of early impact data, unusually large                 land is uncertain. It is not yet
uncertainties.                                                     clear that either improved
                                                                   community processes or
42.      The sustainability elements of the project                government processes are really
can be divided into: sustainabilityof watershed                    consolidated enough to be

investments; sustainability of government                          sustained in future government
                                                                   support without a follow-on
processes; and sustainability of community                         project in those provinces and
processes. With respect to investments, field                      communities.
observation suggests that most agricultural
investments on private land, representing 39% of
the actual total treatment area, are likely to be sustained because of private profitability.


agricultural policy reform agenda. Therefore the strategy was to focus more narrowly on technical, poverty
reduction and pilot interventions to maintain a foot in the door. OED appreciates the difficulty here but
notes that what is proposed is more the initiation of analytical work and dialogue than conditionality or
hasty completion.
26. While such issues can be complex, the extent to which the rangeland ownership issue was misjudged by
both Bank and borrower at appraisal suggests insufficient consultation or excessive optimism.

                                                      20


However, forestry investments on Forest Department land face a threat. As noted earlier,
it has been almost inevitable that, when offered the immediate high value benefits on
 agriculture land e.g. irrigation, forage, terracing, etc., households would accept these
 against a quidpro quo of closing lower value selected forest land to grazing. However,
 even for those who did receive the agriculture benefits, having received them, and with
the memory of that benefit fading, there remains an incentive now to utilize the forest
land for grazing. Whether the community commitments on this can be sustained for the
unusually long maturity periods of these planting is questionable. However, this issue is
complicated by two facts. First, grazing pressure is declining nationally as wage
increases, employment alternatives, and competition from more intensive livestock
production make shepherding, either by paid employees or family members, less
attractive. Second, and related to the first, heavy pressure is more likely on the nearby
grazing areas due to the convenience of proximity. It is therefore anticipated that some
percentage, at a guess say one third, may face damage sufficient to significantly reduce
impact. Thus, about 20% of total actual project treatment area might be

43.       With respect to governmentprocesses, which were one of the means to the
physical and welfare objectives, while there was a substantial gain in community
interaction skills which should be of benefit to government staff for some years, the lack
of a continued vehicle to utilize those skills, and the project specificity of the improved
interactive processes adopted under the project, raises questions about the sustainability
of the incipient skills of public servants. However, the Forest Department at least seems
to be attempting to maintain the consultative processes tested under the project. Whether
this can be sustained given the higher cost of such approaches, the now much tighter
budget and the low current morale with recent institutional changes is very uncertain.

44.      With respect to community groups which were another means to the physical and
welfare ends, it has been argued above that the traditional processes were not challenged
by the project enough with respect to women and the poorer households. The project
utilized the traditional structure and the traditional representational system obviously will
be sustained as it has been in the past. However, since no further project investments are
anticipated in these micro-catchments it is somewhat less clear that the introduced
participatory processes themselves initiated under the project will remain active, or at a
sufficient state of readiness to be re-activated for any set of community investments.
Moreover it is very uncertain that these only recently introduced processes will become
the established processes for normal government services. What is needed is for projects
to stay with the community processes long enough to reach an agreed set of benchmarks
with respect to decision processes, money management, and processes to help the
disadvantaged, and to agree at the outset a phased exit strategy for each community with
trigger points in those areas. What one would hope to see if improved community
processes have really been put in place is that a community would have shifted from
being a largely passive recipient of proffered public resources to a pro-active seeker of
resources from all sources for largely independently developed and community-planned
ideas. Such a permanent and sustained shift which would signal true sustainability still

27. The data is insufficient to show whether, even if vegetation is substantially lost, the physical treatments
such as terracing and deep ripping would, in any case, achieve significant soil and water benefits at least for
some years.

                                             21


seems some way off. But it is noteworthy that in the focus group and key informant
discussions there seemed to be little change evident in community infrastructure and
services except for continued quite strong school operation support and perhaps bus
services, and nothing attributable to the new consultative processes outside the immediate
project investments except perhaps in the case of the few Associations formed. The latter
seems to be a community threshold step to be aimed at for sustainability.

GEF Project

45.      The mission did not have the specialist resources to focus sufficiently on this
parallel GEF project. It appears to have been generally well implemented. However, there
are still concerns about the future sustainability of this In situ Conservation of Genetic
Diversity Project mainly in terms of future budgetary commitment. This is
notwithstanding the probably high value for plant breeding of conserving in situ a wide
range of unique genetic material and the escalating returns as one approaches the point of
species extinction. Beneficiaries would be both Turkey itself and the broader global
development community. Increased community management of communal forest and
range land resources would complement this activity.


                                            23                                   Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

TURKEYEASTERNANATOLIAWATERSHED                 REHABILITATION        PROJECT

Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)

                               Appraisal         Actual or            Actual as percent of
                               Estimate          current estimate     Appraisal estimate
 Total project costs           109.79            78.33                71
 Loan amount                   76.9              48.0                 62



Project Dates

                                Original                  Actual
~ ~   -   ~ x  - ~  -  l _ l _ _  _ _ ~  - - "
 Initiating memorandum          0311990                   0311990
 Board Approval                 0311993                   0311993
 Effectiveness                  0711993                   0711993
 Closing date                   1012000                   1012001


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)

                            Actual Weeks                Actual US$OOO
 Preappraisal               Na                          na
 AppraisalINegotiations     Na                          243.3
 Supervision*               Na                          581.O
 Completion**               Na                          36.0
 Total                                                  860.3

                                              24                                    Annex A


Mission Data



                                                                      Status   objectives
Identification/Preparation  03-04/1991      6   E, A, RN, WM, EC, F
identification/Preparation    11/1991       5      E,A,NA, NA, NA
Appraisal/Negotiation        01/02/1992     6   E, A, NA, NA, NA, NA
AppraisaVNegotiation        06-07/1992      7            E, A
Appraisal/Negotiation         11/1992       6            E, A
AppraisaVNegotiation       01/25-28/1993
Supervision 1                 05/1993       3           E, A, F         S          5
Supervision 2                11-12/1993     3          E, A, IE         S          5
Supervision 3               05-06/1994      2            IE, A          U          5
Supervision 4                10/11/1994     4       A, IE, E, BS        U          5
Supervision 5                 05/1995       4                           S          5
Supervision 6              10-11/1995(mtr)  4        F, A, IE, BS
                                                     A, E,F, BS         S          5
Supervision 7                 05/1996       4      TM, A, BS, OP        S          5
Supervision 8                 10/1996       4      TM, A, IE, OP        S          5
Supervision 9               05-06/1997      5     A, TM, IE, F, OP      S          5
Supervision 10                07/1997       2      A, IE, F,OP, E
                                                        A, OP           S          5
Supervision 11              11-12/1997      5                           S          5
Supervision 12                04P998        4                           S          5
Supervision 13                07/1998       2       A, IE, F,OP
                                                        A, OP           S          5
Supervision 14                1111998       3                           S          5
Supervision 15                031999        5      A, OP, IE, F,L
                                                       A, IE, F         S          5
Supervision 16                10/1999       4       A, OP, IE, F        S          5
Supervision 17                05/2000                                   S          5
Supervision 18                11/2000                                   S         5
Supervision 19                04/2001       2           A, IE           S         5
Supervision 20                09/2001       5      A, IE, IE, F, OP     S         5
Completion                    12/2001       2           E, NR           S         S

                                                       25                                   Annex B


 Annex B. Summarized Extracts from Village Focus Group
 Discussions2*

          "Women do not take part in decision-making mechanisms nor are there any
          women leaders in the village." (Comments of this type were almost universal,
          although the understanding of what is a "decision-making mechanism" may
          have varied somewhat.)
          "30 officials came in 1998to introduce the project to the village. The village
          government called all villagers together at the school and 70 males of 19
          households participated in the first meeting. Only three or five people
          intentionally did not participate because they did not want the project
          implemented in our village. These people were owners of large livestock
          herds who were using the rangeland and did not want the rangeland closed for
          rehabilitation. The villagers wrote down their demands and these demands
          were then graded according to the majority's choice. The following year some
          measurements were taken from water, soil, etc. and the project started to be
          implemented." (This was a fairly typical description of the process.)
          ". .. but the conditions of all villagers do not change .... There have not been
          any changes for us."
          "Our village will benefit today and also in the future from the project
          activities."
          .". all of the villagers received something from the project and it was of great
          benefit to villagers."
          "The only project activity that was bothering some of the villagers was the
          land closure for rangeland rehabilitation..... There are not any costs to the
          poor households, on the contrary they all benefited from the project.."
          "All the villagers except women participate in decision-making."
          "Most of the villagers were satisfied with the project."
          "One meeting was held with women before the project implementation."
          "After the project, we lost the rangeland and we cannot graze our livestock
          because of closure."
          "People wishing to get hives gave their names to the village governor and the
          ones who received hives were chosen by drawing lots." (done in other villages
          too.)
          "The project has been of greater benefit for those who have their own land."
          ". ,.Women do not take part in decision-making mechanisms.."
          "But in time (villagers) became interested and accepted the project because
         they saw that this project was not like the others."
          "I believe that since we owned the project the activities have increased in our
         village."
         "Purchasing power of the people is weakening..."


28. An attempt has been made to make these both informative and representative. In some cases there
were contradictory statements from the same group. In some cases these are direct quotes from the
focus group or individual informants interviewed separately or from within the group, in other cases
they are the interviewers summarized interpretation of what was being said.

                                           26                            Annex B


0  "They brought apiculture which the villagers were unfamiliar with and we
   could not cope with it."
0  "Four meetings were held for the selection and implementation of the project
  in the village."
0 "All of the villagers benefit from the project, including the 10poorer
   families."
0 "Eighty percent of the youth goes to Kahramanmaras to work or migrate."
0 "The project has been a source of income for many villagers during the
  implementation process. It has also helped the co-operative to strengthen.
  Flooding and erosion has stopped over a period of five years. Nearly the
  whole land has been closed and livestock farming has stopped."
0 "The villagers are generally satisfied with the project."
0 "No contribution from women. They do not have any information about the
  land being afforested. .... They know that three ponds were built but they do
  not have any contribution to the project activities or the decision mechanism."
0 "Some women said that they had never seen any help provided to the village."
0 "Marketing conditions have improved since 1966but the income of the
  villagers stays constant."
0 "The only successful project activity was afforestation."
0 "The villagers did not have trust in the project at the beginning and they
  thought nothing could be done. In time, with the implementation, the
  consultation with the villagers, and the participatory approach, the villagers
  had a positive feeling about the project."
0 "We cannot ask Rural Services to help in the maintenance of the ponds
  because no one listens to us. When ponds are shared by four or five
  households the officials do not asked for monetary contribution for cement but
  if it is an individual pond the villager pays for cement."
0 "One of the hamlets of the village had no benefit from the project."
0 "Since the ponds were not built in a healthy way and less cement (was used)
  the walls are peeling off."
0 "Formerly they used to have large livestock flocks in the village and children
  used to work as shepherds. Nowadays, the young families either migrate to
  Istanbul or work in Malatya. Only a few households deal with livestock
  flocks. The rest have sold their sheep and goats and bought one or two cows.''
  (This was a common response about the shift out of small grazing livestock.)
0 "About 30 percent of the planted seedlings have died"
0 "If they could get back to 1996they would not have let the project be
  implemented.Not all that was promised by the project was realized and those
  that were realized were not done in a "healthy way.""
0 "Women of the village do not have any information about the project."
0 "The first meeting for the project was held in 1998. Almost all of the
 households participated in the meeting and 99 percent of them accepted the
 project."
0"Afforestation has not been completed."

                                          27                              Annex B


e "Market conditions have improved, nowadays you can find anything you want
  to purchase. But the economic condition of villagers weakens, although we
  earn much money we cannot afford (things) as we used to      "
  "The villagers were very positive about the project."
  "About 80 percent of the villagers were interested in the project activities and
  they welcomed the officials. There was only one villager who has 40 sheep
  that objected to the project."
  " ..they had some disputes with a neighboring village about the project
  activities."
  "The villagers were told that the project would provide seedlings, but they
  have not received any seedlings from the project."
  "Ahundred beehives were given to five households who had given up
  livestock farming with the project .. some courses were given .... some of
                                       ,
  (them) could not cope with bees."
e "The villagers say that they got poorer compared to the past. (But) ... in three
  to five years time they are going to start to get yields from almonds that the
  project planted..... But the project affected livestock owners in the village
  negatively."
  "They were satisfied with most of the project activities."
  "Before the project implementation, the meeting was held with this village's
  women, 4 out of 20 women (in the focus group) knew about the project. ....
  According to women there have not been any changes in the village since
  1998. "
  "Women do not take part in decision-making..."
  "They should plant trefoil or something else in the lands that were closed to
  grazing otherwise the land should be opened back up to grazing livestock."
  "In general villagers were not satisfied with the project and they were
  complaining about incomplete activities."
e "The villagers had had positive feelings about the project because of the
 rotational closure to grazing (the rangeland selected was to be separated into
 two or three parts and these lands were to be used for range activities in turn.)
 But this activity was not realized."
 "Thirty men, representing all of the village tribes participated in the meeting.
  ,..There were a few villagers that did not want the project......Thesepeople
 were livestock owners."
e"There are 10poorer households who do not have land in the village. The
 project did not affect these households either good or bad. Nothing has
 changed for these households with project implementation but they will
 benefit from afforestation in the long run."
 "Villagers are not dealing with livestock as they used to any more.... Because
 of the improvement in living standards of the villagers the youth prefer to
 migrate to the cities and the rest dislike dealing with livestock. With the
 project, the income of villagers has not changed but it may possibly increase
 in the future."

                                           28                               Annex B


e  "In general villagers were not satisfied with the project because not all of the
   activities that were proposed were implemented. ....They were complaining
   about the contractors and weak supervision by Rural Services."
e  "If the objective of the project is preventing erosion why do they not let us
   graze in rangeland?"
0  "There were no women leaders and no female participation in decision-
   making mechanisms."
0  "They (women) did not have any idea about the project. The women did not
   have any participation in the activities or meetings about the project and they
   did not have any demands."
e  "Market conditions improve but the income of villagers stays constant."
e  "Before and after the project water (drinking and irrigation) is still the most
  important problem of the village." (This is a common response in relation to
  questions about main problems.)
e "(villagers) used to take decisions collectively in the past but with the
  developments in media such as TV or radios in homes unity and cooperation
  has weakened in the village."
0 "They especially mentioned that they would have left the village if the project
  was not implemented."
e "But the previous village governor and some other villagers did not believe
  that the officials would be helpful and therefore few of the villagers
  participated (in the opening meetings). Only 20 to 30 percent of the villagers
  participated in the first meeting held in 1994..... None of the villagers
  objected but they thought that the project would not be beneficial.   "

e "The villagers did not take part or contribute in labor."
e "People could not cope with apiculture."
0 "Irrigation conditions have improved with the project.. However the poor are
  still poor and nothing has changed for the villagers who do not have any land
  or livestock. .... 10to 15 households did not benefit from the project, they
  were offered beehives but did not want them."
e "There were no women leaders and no participation of women in decision-
  making. They did not even hear about the project.. .. They had really big
  problems about water and their workload was too much."
0 "The project provided water to some of the households but it would be better
  if it had provided something that would serve all of the villagers."
0 "The project was not very active in this village since it was not the project's
  main target due to its settlement being on land that is suitable for irrigation
  which was not affected by erosion or flooding directly."
e "There was one pond built but it was banned because it was on rangeland."
e "Since agricultural pesticides were being used in the village the bees died."
e "They mentioned that they used to take decisions collectively in the past but
  in time cooperation and unity have weakened."
e "Participation in the meetings (opening meetings) was low...... nobody
  objected to the project but everybody had hesitation that it would not be
 implemented."
e"Villagers did not work in any of the activities implemented by the project."

                                        29                            Annex B


0 "In agriculture, there has not been any change with the project...."

0 "Women do not have any information about the project... (But) they seem to
  know about irrigation ponds, apiculture, and seeds distributed."
0 "No meeting was held with women for the project"

30    Annex C

                                                         31                         Annex C


        Annex C. Borrower Comments
                                      REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                          PRIME MINISTRY
                         THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY


Ref: B.02.1.HM.O.DE~.01.02.177/ J-! i: LI                                Ankara,


Mr. Alain Barbu
Manager
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department                                 27.02.04* 10037
The World Bank



        Dear Mr. Barbu,

       With reference to your message about the draft Project Performance Assesment
Report of Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3567-TR), please
find enclosed the comments of Ministry of Forestry and Environment (General
Directorate of Afforestration and Erosion Control) and, General Directorate of Rural
Affairs. Please also take note that the comments of State Planning Organization will be
submitted to you by the end of next week at the latest.

       Taking this opportunity, I     would like to thank you and your staff for the efforts on
finalization of this comprehensive report.

       Best regards.


                                                                     Seven YUCEL
                                                             Acting Director General of
                                                             Foreign Economic Relations



Encl.




Hazine Mustegarligi, Dig Ekonomik lligkiler Gene1Mudurlugu
lnonu Bulvari No: 36,06510 BalgaVANKARA Tel: (0312) 212 88 55 Faks: (0312) 212 85 50

                                                           32                             Annex C




       o It is said in this report that; there have beef?some dozrbts on developing the
            natural vegetations sufficiently, even   IJIthere would h i e been some risks on
         -  sustainability because of      closing down the area against grazing after soil
            protection afforestation arid it has been claimed that the project did not produce
            enough&tu on the basis of mstainability.
       o This is the factthat, in Turkey, most ofthe land degradatione.g. deforestationhave
            been resulted from over and uncontrolled grazing. So, we are not agreeing with
            this opinion. Additionally, this subject had been examined with the World Bank
            expert in the oflice and the field. It has been cleared that closing the area against
            grazing has a positive effect on regeneration of existing and degraded forest and
            the area could improve by itself.
       o Besides this, with afforestation activities on bared land, new forests have been
            established by seeding and planting methods. Finally; there has been improved on
            water, soil and vegetation sources in watershed and decreasing the erosion. With
            these precautionsthe flood and torrent have been prevented.


At the end of the "Performance and Evaluation Report", it has been said that;
       o The project has highly plentihl effects on capacity building,
       o The performances of the World Bank and the other organizations               have been
            evaluated satisfactory,
       o There is someuncertaintyof sustainability ofthe project,
       o As a result, there are no deviations to be indicated according to beginning and
            implementing of the project,
       o In 1999,the project has gained "The World Bank PerfectionReward".

       With this regard, The Ministry of Emironment and Foreshy has the same opinionas
       the report.



As a result, from the point of Ministry of Environment and Forest, the "Project Performance
Evaluation Report" is regarded suitable and there are no more objections on it.

                                                   33                            Annex C




  COMMENTS OF GNERAL DIRECTORATE OF RURAL AFFAIRS (KHGM)

Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project has been implemented as an erosion
control and watershed rehabilitation project.

The project, which has been coordinated by General Directorate of Afforestration and
Erosion Control(AGM) was jointly implemented by AGM, Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs (MARA), General Directorate of Rural Affairs (KHGM) and General
Directorate of Forest and Village Relations (ORKOY).

Although some problems have aroused during the implementation phase, the project was
successfully implemented in general. Firstly, the coordination between government
institutions was sufficent. Secondly, the coordination between government institutions
and local people was well organized during the project preparation, implementation and
protection steps. Participation of local people in the project, in terms of support for
supervising and contribution, was very high compared to the other projects implemented
in Turkey before. Thirdly, technical and environmental experts rated the project very
successful1from technical and environmental aspects.

During the project implementation, KHGM faced some problems because of the
insufficient local budget funds and some of the villagers demand could not be covered by
the project.

Finally, in the project areas, erosion control activities and rural development activities
were completed in coordination with government institutions and local people.

                                                                 54                  Annex C

                              State Planning Organization's(SPO) Opinionon
                             Eastern Anatolia Watershed RehabilitationProject
                                    "Project PerformanceADpraisal Report"

The project, which was launched under the loan agreement concluded between the World
project cost was US$ 110 million, including US$ 77 million to be provided from the proceeds
Bank and our Government on March 25, 1993, was completed at the end of 2001. Total

of a foreign loan. Project activities were planned for micro-catchmentsand launched in three
micro-catchments in three provinces (Elazig, Malatyaand Adiyaman) in 1993.

Project activities were carried out by the General Directorate for Rural Services (KHGM) and
the General Directorate for Agricultural Production and Development (TUGEM) and
coordinated by the General Directoratefor Afforestation and Erosion Control (AGM).

The project's objective included rehabilitation of damaged forests, pastures and farming
areas; restoration of sustainable pasturage, forestry and farming activities in upper
catchment areas, reduction of sedimentation, erosion and soil deterioration in reservoirs;
training and awareness-raising on proper use of natural resources; increasing efficiency and
income of poor population living in the catchments; and encouraging participationat planning
and application phases. In line with those objectives, the project has three components,
namely rehabilitation activities, income-generating activities, and catchment management
support activities.

Those activities, which were initially planned to be limited to three provinces and 54
catchments, were subsequently expanded to 11 provinces and 88 catchments until the end
of 2001. AGM took part in project-related works in 85 of those catchments while TUGEM and
KHGM were active in 86 and 51 catchments, respectively.

Until the end of 2001, AGM carried out soil conservation afforestation on 71,991 hectares in
the 85 microcatchments where it took part in project-related activities. In addition, it
rehabilitated 19,282 hectares of pastures, 2,240 hectares of oak and 1,687 hectares of
cedar in addition to gallery afforestation on 81 hectares.

To carry out those works, AGM spent a total of US$ 43,027,000, including US$ 27,039,000
earmarked from the proceeds of the foreign loan during the period between the inception of
the project and the end of 2001.

TUGEM's activities in connection with the project included agronomic package applications
on 7886 hectares; fallow reduction on 9813 hectares; demonstrations on 1124 hectares;
grafting of 1224000 pistachio trees; planting of 238049 seedlings along borders of fields;
growing fodder plants on 1903 hectares of irrigated land; establishment of vineyards and
gardens on 8864 hectares, as well as distribution of 34560 beehives.
To carry out those works, TUGEM spent a total of US$ 6,047,000, including US$ 5,224,000
earmarked from the proceeds of the foreign loan.

KHGM constructed irrigation channels with a total length of 1,069,498, 1260 irrigation ponds
and 2643 hectares of farming terraces under the project and thus opened 12,368 hectares of
land to irrigated farming.

To carry out those works, KHGM spent a total of US$ 29,258,000, including US$ 15,711,000
earmarked from the proceeds of the foreign loan.
All the organizations concerned spent a total amount of US$ 78,333,000, including US$
47,975,000 funded by the foreign loan during the nine-year project implementation period.



C \DOCUME-l\wb05764\L0CALS-l\Temp\k notes data\DBAN4CIB doc   1
S T

                                                                  35                     Annex C


The physical targets remained unchanged although the number of provinces and catchments
included in the project had been increased. AGM and KHGM's physical implementation ratios
were 152 and 85 percent, respectively as compared with the initial targets. TUGEM's
physical implementation ratio was much lower. If the physicaltargets are adjusted in line with
the increase in the number of provinces and catchments, it would be seen that realization
ratios were actually lower. Therefore, the realization ratios calculated are misleading,
because the targets outlined in SAR (Staff Appraisal Report) relate to 54 catchments in three
provinces. The project was, however, implemented in 11 provinces and 88 micro-
catchments.

Meanwhile, cash spending under the project corresponded to 71.2 percent of the initial cost.
Credit utilization was 62.3 percent. The initial cost was not adjusted in line with the expansion
in physical scope (the increase in the number of provinces and catchments). In spite of this
fact, the spending ratio in the project remained low. Had the project cost been increased in
line with that change, the realization ratio would have been even lower, which indicates that
(a) the initial project cost was considerably high, and (b) problems that hindered activities on
pastuTescould not be foreseen. Both factors have resulted from designing and planning
errors during project development and preparation phases.

This shortcoming caused by the planning phase has resulted from the failure to analyze the
project adequately and insufficient involvement of the parties concerned (public agencies
such as the SPO and the Treasury, target groups, etc.) and their analyses. Thus, the report
states that "participation" was of crucial importance to development, preparation and
implementation of the project, adding that it constituted the underlying philosophy of the
project. In fact, "summarized excerpts from interviews with village target groups", which is
attached to the report in question, indicates that participation of target groups was not
adequately efficient.

Had all the stakeholders been involved in project planning and implementation processes
and adequately analyzed, AGM's lack of experience in working with local people, TUGEM's
lack of experience in working upper catchments and the problems stemming from KHGM's
regulations could have been identified and thus necessary measures could have been taken
and the project could have been designed more efficiently. The report also notes that there
were some shortcomings in follow-up on and evaluation of the project. Similarly,
responsibilities and duties of all the parties concerning follow-up and evaluation could have
been defined clearly and a feasible and sustainable structure could have been established.

It is known that SPO establishes connections between development projects and plans and
programs, analyses feasibility studies and prioritizes projects before allocation of funds. The
next step will involve a decision on funding sources for the priority projects included in the
investment program. Therefore, such problems could be avoided if the SPO and the parties
concerned efficiently design the project before the financing negotiations related to projects
proposed to be funded by foreign loans.

The Implementation Completion Report, drawn up by the Bank, and the Project Performance
Appraisal Report state that performance of the Bank, which assumed a key role in all phases
(project development, preparation, analysis, follow-up of implementation and post-
implementation assessment) of the project, which is said to have been developed and
implemented based on a participatory approach, was satisfactory. The findings and opinions
expressed in sections "Lessons Learned" and "Future Orientations" of the report and
"Excerpts from Interviews With Village Target Group", which is attached as an annex,
substantially overshadows the project's success. As a consequence, the project's physical
and cash realization ratios remained low. As a natural outcome of that fact, the cost of the




C \DOCUME-l\wb05764\LOCALS-l\Temp\k nates data\DBAN4CI 8 doc
S T                                                            2

                                                                 36                 Annex C


paid for undisbursed amounts (commitment fee).
loan, which was utilized at a rate of 62 YO,to our country further increased due to amounts

Although the amount representing interest payments arising from utilization of the said loan
should have been included in the project cost and economic profitability calculations should
have been made accordingly, the appraisal reports make no mention of that amount.

On the other hand, high figures are given in the evaluations pertaining to economic
profitability ratios, but contain no satisfactory explanation as to how those ratios were
calculated.

A total of 27 missions consisting of the Bank's personnel were organized during project
implementation and a total of US$ 860,300 was spent, which corresponds to 1.8 percent of
the loan borrowed to fund the project and is therefore considerably high.




C \DOCUME-l\wwb05764\LOCALS-1\Temp\k
S T                                  notes data\DBAN4C18 doc   3



