Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24181
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35670; SCL-3567A; SCPD-3567S; TF-25800)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 77 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
FOR THE
EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 31, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
TL 1,00 = US$ 0,00000064
US$ 1 =    1,518,666 TL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGM              Department of Reforestation & Erosion Control
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
EAWRP            Eastem Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project
ERR              Economic Rate of Retum
FCPCPS           Farmer-Centered, Problem-Census, Problem Solving
GEF              Global Environmental Fund
GIS              Global Information System
GOT              Govemment of Turkey
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
KHGM             General Directorate of Rural Services
M&E              Monitoring & Evaluation
MARA             Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Affairs
MC               Micro Catchment
MOF              Ministry of Forestry
ORKOY            General Directorate of Forest Village Relationship
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
OGM              General Directorate of Forestry
PCSU             Project Coordination & Support Unit
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SPO              State Planning Organization
TKV              Turkish Development Foundation
TAGEM            General Directorate for Agricultural Research
TUBITAK          Turkish Scientific & Technology Research Organization
TUGEM            General Directorate of Production and Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director:   Laura Tuck/Marjory-Anne Bromhead, ECSSD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Nedret Durutan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
TURKEY EAST ANATOLIA WATERSHED PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                13
6. Sustainability                                                                    14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     15
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    17
9. Partner Comments                                                                  19
10. Additional Information                                                           23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Docmtnents                                               36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






j [toject ID: P009023                                     Project Name: TURKEY EASTERN ANATOLIA
WATERSHED PROJECT
ream Leader: S. Nedret Durutan                            TL Unit: ECSSD
-CR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TURKEY EASTERN ANATOLIA WATERSHED              L/C/TF Number: CPL-35670;
PROJECT                                                       SCL-3567A;
SCPD-3567S;
TF-25800
Country/Department: TURKEY                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/Isubsector: AG - Agency Reform; AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/05/1990                             Effective:                    07/26/1993
Appraisal:  06/15/1992'                               MTR:   11/01/1995          11/30/1995
Approval:  03/11/1993                              Closing:  10/20/2000         10/30/2001
Borrower/lmplempienting Agency:  REPUBLIC OF TURKEY/MOF/MARA
Other Partners:
iTAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
'ice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfred Thalwitz
Countrv Manager:     Ajay Chhibber                              Michael Wiehen
.ector Manager:      Marjory-Anne Bromhead                      Jamnes Goering
'ream Leader at ICR:  S. Nedret Durutan                         Marjory-Anne Bromhead
.'CR Primaiy Author:  R. Suppa (FAO/CP)
;;. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=H-ighly
lJnlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Bozrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The specific objectives of the project were to help restore sustainable range, forest and farming activities in
three provinces in the upper Euphrates watershed, reducing soil degradation, erosion and sedimentation in
reservoirs as well as increasing productiveness and incomes in this impoverished region of Turkey. By
using a participatory approach, the project was designed to strengthen farmers' planning and implementing
capacity while improving the responsiveness of rural services agencies to farmers' needs. A key underlying
objective of the project was the environmental rehabilitation of degraded land for the conservation, in their
natural habitat, of the genetic resources of globally significant herbaceous and woody species indigenous to
Turkey.
The objectives of the project were clear, realistic and in line with Government's priorities and Bank's
country assistance and sector strategies that supported poverty alleviation through productivity increases,
participatory approaches to development and institutional building to enhance sustainability. Active village
participation was an innovative and essential feature of this project. The project therefore conformed to the
Bank lending strategy for Turkey which included strong attention on environmental issues, and increased
assistance to the poorer provinces of Eastern Turkey. By improving sustainability of forestry, livestock and
agriculture, the project was designed to adequately contribute to increased productivity and higher rural
income in these areas. Because of the focus on poverty and natural resources protection, the Government
of Turkey (GOT) was fuldly committed to the project. Although institutions were considered able to expand
their activities, financial resources and equipment were limited. The Bank's support-for the Eastern
Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (EAWRP) was therefore justified as a response to the GOT's
commitment and efforts to reduce ecological degradation, protect the natural resources and thus contribute
to rural growth, employment and poverty alleviation.
The project, at entry, was not considered exempt from some technical and institutional risks. Like all
watershed rehabilitation efforts, it required the integration of conservation and development, coordination
of interventions in crop, livestock and forestry production and revisions in the way land would be managed.
The interventions for improved range management were perhaps the most risky as they required full
participation by villagers and agricultural extension agents who did not possess such experience in this
field. This problem was adequately addressed at appraisal by: (i) providing technical assistance and
training; (ii) focussing on low cost participatory approaches to range management; and (iii) allowing for a
review of progress within the first two years of project implementation and modifying the approach if
considered necessary, possibly by contracting with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) with
experience in community organization. Intensive Bank supervision was foreseen at appraisal.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during irnplementation and components were maintained as foreseen
at appraisal. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) Mission carried out by the Bank in October/November 1995
decided that "no changes in the treatment measures for forest and agriculture and income generating
activities were justified". However, as a result of the strong project ownership and enthusiasm by local and
provincial officials and the village communities, the GOT decided to increase the project area and in
mid-1997, based on the experience of the initial three project provinces and together with considerable
project savings, requested the Bank to initiate preparation for additional participatory micro-catchment
(MC) plans in major watershed areas. Finally, eight more provinces, namely Adana, Kabramnaras,
Sivas, Antalya, Isparta, Icel, Gaziantep and Sanliurfa were added to the project. The inclusion of the new
provinces under the project required amendments to the original Loan Agreement, which were approved in
October 1999. Expansion enabled the Borrower to: (i) test the "Participatory Watershed Management"
- 2 -



ap proach in different socio-economic settings; and (ii) expose more provincial agencies to the approach.
3.3 Original Components:
The EAWRP was designed to include the following components: (i) rehabilitation of an estimated 54 MCs
through a series of treatment on cultivated, range and forest lands with participation of the local
pzpulation; (ii) supporting activities including small-scale irrigation, horticulture and agriculture; (iii)
support to project planning and management; (iv) adaptive research and pilot work to supplement and
inprove the menu of treatment options; and (v) Global Environmental Fund (GEF) sub-project activities
including survey and inventory, management of selected sites, monitoring, data management, institutional
sirengthening and the preparation of a national plan for gene conservation. The original components fitted
well with the objectives of the project and were within the administrative and financial management
capacities of the main implementing agencies, i.e. the Department of Reforestation and Erosion Control
(AGM) within the Ministry of Forestry (MOF), and the General Directorate of Production and
[levelopment (TUGEM), the General Directorate for Agricultural Research (TAGEM) and the General
E lirectorate of Rural Services (KHGM) within the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA). In
aidition, the project design incorporated the main lessons from three previous Bank projects in lurkey
namely the Second Agricultural Credit Project, the Erzurum Rural Development Project and the Northern
Forestry Project and Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project.
3.4 Revised Components:
NWithout changing the project objectives, project components and physical targets were revised and funds
were maintained throughout the project as also indicated in the MTR mission. However, as indicated
above, during the course of implementation in mid-1997, the scope of the project was expanded to cover a
total of 11 provinces, 8 more than the original number envisaged at appraisal.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
IThe Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time of the project's approval. Peer reviewers
and Bank decision-makers endorsed the project's design and objectives which were consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and considered its quality at entry as satisfactory. The Project piloted
key elements of a then evolving participatory watershed rehabilitation approach that focussed oni restoring
sustainable range, forest and farming activities in the upper Euphrates watershed. The project was subject
t) a QAG analysis in April/May 1998, and the Panel rated the EAWRP in respect to both the quality at
entry and the quality of supervision as "Best Practice" and an example of the World Bank at its best. The
I.roject made a sophisticated multi-sectoral and sequential project concept operational in remote,
resource-poor mountainous rural areas of Eastern Turkey. It introduced a variety of small physical
ilfrastructural and agricultural interventions demanded by village communities aiming at increasing their
incomes in private lands. The Bank nominated the EAWRP a Project Excellence Award in 1999.
As foreseen at appraisal, the project faced technical and institutional risks. These problems were addressed
during implementation by provision of adequate technical assistance and training and effective liaison
committees at national and provincial levels through which the implementing team could operate
satisfactorily under continuous monitoring. However, some difficulties were experienced in relation to
GOT budget allocations. The concem about the financial contribution from the GOT to suppolt project
activities did not fully materialize at the beginning of the project and this was the main cause for some
d elays of project implementation up to 1995.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
After a short and frustrating start in the first years, and despite slow disbursement because of late
-3 -



availability of counterpart funds and immature project management, the project finally had considerable
impact on the degraded natural resources and households it was targeting and, indirectly, on policy,
institutions and behavioral standards. The EAWRP"may well be considered as a flagship for the Bank in
the important area of watershed management. In pursuing its objectives, the project commendably adopted
a demand-driven approach, implemented through participatory MC planning, as distinct from a
target-driven approach. At appraisal, the scope, scale and cost of activities could not be determined in
advance with accuracy since communities would select from a menu of interventions. Therefore, based on
the field work during preparation, best estimates were used for the purpose of cost and benefit calculations.
During implementation it was observed that MCs were diverse in terms of both ecological and
socio-economic conditions and attitudes of communities which in turn affected the scope and scale of
interventions. This inevitably led to departure from the basic assumptions made at appraisal regarding the
areas to be achieved under the various components. The project is noteworthy for having focused on
quality rather than aiming at simple area targets and showing considerable flexibility and resulting in
learning by doing. The project has achieved unprecedented coordination among the implementing agencies,
MOF, MARA and KHGM. In conclusion, the outcome of the project as a whole, both in respect to its
development objectives and its physical implementation, is rated satisfactory. The success of the
implementation created an interest in many countries and Turkish implementing agencies hosted visitors
from Morocco, Ethiopia, Georgia, Azerbaijan, and Albania. The achievement of each development
objective is summarized below. This report takes no account of the GEF financed In-situ Conservation of
Genetic Diversity sub-project which was evaluated separately in the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) dated April 30, 1999.
4.1.1 Restore Sustainable Range, Forest and Farming Activities, and Increasing Productivity and
Incomes:
The project initiated innovations in the protection and rehabilitation of the environment while helping rural
people to increase incomes. A comparative baseline evaluation study, based on sample data, indicates that
poverty in the project villages was reduced and that average incomes have more than doubled over three
years. The increased income is elaborated in para 4.4 and in Annex 3. It is reasonable to assume that the
project has made a significant contribution to the increase in farm income, which, in turn, has facilitated the
communities' interest in the improvement of the management of the communal and public lands, on which
they rely for grazing and forest products. The MOF, in turn, actually introduced the innovations for the
management of these lands. In terms of area treated, the project has over-achieved on forest land (including
forest rangeland) and under-achieved on non-forest land particularly on rangelands compared to the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates. The appraisal estimates depended on provincial annual statistics.
However, statistics regarding rangelands did not reflect the reality due to obscure perception of rangeland
and lack of legal definition. Generally, most non-crop land was classified as rangeland and this resulted in
over-estimates. It was only after the issuance of the "Rangeland Act" in 2000 that efforts have started to
re-define the "rangeland" with the support of the ground work to delineate the rangelands in the country
and bring legal clarification to the issue. Therefore, during the MC planning process and also in
implementation the actual situation of the rangelands were understood. The project activities regarding
forest rehabilitation are expected to make significant contributions to combating erosion and will, over
time, also produce wood, other forest products and feed for the livestock. In particular, villagers were very
happy with rangeland closure which provided feed for the livestock and also for the bees during drought
periods. The productivity of marginal farm lands has been successfully addressed by assisting farmers to
adopt improved practices. Soil fertility management and the use of vegetative means of soil and moisture
conservation have been successfully promoted through both agronomic and horticultural practices and the
significant advances made in forage production have been associated with an increase in the stall-feeding of
livestock. The supporting activities, designed to reduce farmers' dependence on forest and rangelands
which led to reduced pressure on the natural resources have been popular, small-scale irrigation especially
-4 -



so. The small-scale irrigation component of the project was very popular and provided an increase of the
net value of production of about 380% in MC villages.
4.1.2 Strengthening Farmers' Planning and Implementing Capacity:
The Farmer-Centered, Problem-Census, Problem-Solving (FCPCPS): Approach has been successfully
implemented and ensured the participation of the villagers' in decision making, MC planning and
implementation. The achievement of a high level of community participation in the planning process is a
considerable strength of the project. This meant that the scale of various interventions and the
implementation pace in a MC was detennined largely by community preference. In the early years of the
project, some communities were sceptical about the project approach and decided not to participate in the
project at all. However, after observing the successful implementation in neighboring villages, they applied
to the agencies to be included in the project. Villagers' volunteering ensured commitment and contributions
for rehabilitation and use of their natural resources. As a result of this, the project implementation teams
organized field trips regularly for the communities of the newly included MCs to those in which the
rehabilitation activities were more advanced and the results were visible. This enabled the villagers observe
the developments and also interact with other communities where such practices were proven to be
successful. In strengthening the communities' planning and implementing capacity, coordination among the
implementing agencies contributed a lot and proved to be a major project achievement. From a pre-project
situation of wholly independent entities, the three implementing agencies involved now coordinate their
activities within the project. This collaboration took time to mature and is evident both in Ankara, where
the Project Coordination & Support Unit (PCSU) resides in the AGM and at provincial level which is
generally adequate to good. However, in those provinces most recently included in the project it needs
more time to mature.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Watershed Rehabilitation:
Physical achievements are summarized at Annex 1. The total area treated including forest, range and
arable land was 116,521 ha and was thus was less than the total of 216,849 ha envisaged at appraisal
(Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators). The shortfall was on agricultural land rather than on forest land,
where the SAR figure of 62,370 ha was exceeded in implementation by 53%. The major sub-components
are reviewed separately below. Overall performance in this component is considered satislractory.
Improvements in farming practices: This sub-component consisted of a series of further and inter-related
sub-components and steps. The area treated under this was 29,810 ha, against an SAR estimate of 38,167
ha.
The comparative baseline study shows that yields increased over the three year (as per the survey) period of
comparison i.e. the average yield increase in irrigated wheat in Adiyaman, Malatya, and Elazig (original
project provinces); 40% (1800 kg/ha in 1998 versus 2520 kg/ha in 2001). In these provinces, the average
increase was less pronounced under rainfed conditions; only 13% due to severe drought prevailing since
2000 (1490 kg/ha versus 1690 kg/ha). However, despite the severe drought in some MCs, farmers
managed to be affected less as a result of better variety introduced through the project and agronomic
practices i.e. average annual rainfall dropped 60% in Isparta in 2001, but the yield decrease was only about
18% (30 kg/ha). On the average, in project provinces, the yield of irrigated barley increased by 54% and
that of rainfed barley by 22% due to the introduction of a winter hardy variety. For maize, tomato and
pepper under irrigated and for lentil and chickpea under rainfed conditions, the figures show increases of
44%, 46 %, 53 %, 33 % and 18 % respectively. These are all substantial increases over a three year
period.
-5 -



The comparative figures for agronomic packages indicated an evolution from subsistence farming with
almost no inputs and poor tending to semi-conmmercial fanning with some inputs and better agronomic
practices i.e. the number of farmers using phosphorus fertilizers for major crops almost doubled, there was
a shift from broadcast seeding to seeding with a crop drill; 12% increase in the number farmers adopted
drill use in wheat and barley production, and the number. of farmers weeding their fields almost tripled.
The project promoted forage crops and in turn provided strong support to livestock production which has
been a declining sub-sector. Farmers who used to be familiar with only alfalfa as a forage crop produced
under irrigation benefited from Hungarian vetch produced in rotation with wheat/barley under rainfed
conditions, i.e. in Adiyaman, there was no Hungarian vetch in the first two MCs before the project, as of
December 2000, there was an area of 191 ha under Hungarian vetch produced with the seeds provided by
the project, and an additional 43 ha, gained as a result of adoption of the practice by the farmers who
financed the seed themselves. In seven years, farmers of these two MCs adopted this forage crop and the
area under Hungarian vetch reached 234 ha. The project also introduced sainfoin, a perennial forage crop
produced on marginal agricultural land on which wheat production caused severe erosion due to annual
cultivations, i.e. in Sivas, the marginal agricultural land under wheat production was converted to sainfoin
on an area of 2,000 ha. Another important project achievement which was introduced in later years was
the successful promotion of silage, made from maize, previously unknown in the majority of the project
area. As a result of efforts in this area, in 11 project provinces, forage crop production is expected to
increase to about 3,100 tons/year of dry matter as a result of project efforts.
The project was not successful in expanding the contour tillage. A particular constraint to contour tillage
on slopes lies in the narrowness of the parcels into which much of the land is divided. Parcels lie length
wise up the slope rather than across it, the result of dividing the land up equally between family members.
Farmers are reluctant to use tractors in narrow parcels and contour tillage is therefore practiced only by
farmers who still have horses.
The project achieved increased awareness among the farmers in the MC communities on replacing the
fallow with food legumes (chickpea and lentil) and particularly with feed legumes (H. vetch and sainfoin)
produced in rotation with wheat under rainfed conditions. The project also introduced chickpea varieties
resistant to a disease which is currently causing important harvest losses throughout the country.
Rangeland: Against an SAR estimate of 134,112 ha of rangeland to be treated, the project achieved
21,664 ha, mostly on forest rangeland, under both MARA and MOF responsibility. The area of
agricultural rangeland treated under MARA was 2,382 ha against an SAR estimate of 116,312 ha. The
main reason is the misleading agricultural statistics as explained in 4.1.1. It should also be noted that in
some areas, it was not worth investing in rangeland rehabilitation because the degradation was irreversible.
Progress on rangeland activities which were the responsibility of MARA was impeded by uncertainties as
to ownership (especially where rangeland typically adjoins private lands and infrastructure rights), the
absence of cadastral maps and related surveys, a history of encroachment and an inadequate legal
framework for MARA's participation and authority. These issues together meant that, in practice, there
was considerably less rangeland available to the project than had been anticipated. These issues were
addressed during the course of, and outside of, the project by new Rangeland Act approved by Government
in 1998 which had reportedly been under consideration by Parliament for 37 years. The Act defines the
respective roles and responsibilities of government (MOF and MARA) and local people in rangeland
management. It thus gives MARA institutional authority and responsibility with regard to rangeland,
which was formerly lacking. The law also requires cadastral mapping to be undertaken of all rangeland
which is likely to take many years to complete.
- 6 -



There were technical constraints within MARA associated with the lack of previous rangeland experience
md, as noted at appraisal, a lack of adaptive research into rangeland issues. MARA's focus had formerly
teen on providing assistance to the private owners of cultivated land, rather than to the communal
mnanagement of poorly understood common property resources. The SAR's prescription for the piloting of
aerial seeding was not pursued due to the cost involved and unsuitable ecological conditions. T rials
regarding enrichrnent seeding and broadcast application of fertilizers did not work due to drought and/or
:old. The project staff were mislead by the over emphasis on physical interventions (seeding, fertilizing)
recommended by international and national consultants and academicians and it took a while for them to
realize that the most cost effective and practical intervention was the closure of land to grazing and letting
the flora regenerate. It is still noteworthy that rangeland efforts have had some definite success. Fencing
off of the area and rotational closure to grazing was proven to be very successful in some provinces, i.e.
Sivas, Malatya, Adana and Icel. Local people accepted the closure since: (i) they were aware of the fact
that the existing capacity of the rangelands was far from supporting a profitable livestock production; (ii)
there has been a tendency to shift from small ruminants (rangeland based) to big ruminants (mostly stall
fed); (iii) the project introduced and /or supported cultivated forage which could easily compensate the feed
loss due to closure; (iv) they recognized that productive rangeland and cultivated fodder are
complementary for a profitable livestock production; (v) they realized that livestock production could not
be improved only with upgraded genetic material, feed is a must; (vi) the extension staff created awareness
about the impact of overgrazing on the productivity of the rangelands; and vii) the communities developed
confidence in the implementing agencies after observing the achievements realized by other interventions in
the same MC and/or in other MCs.
Forest Land: Physical achievement on forest land exceeded the estimates made at appraisal in all except
one sub-component, namely oak coppice rehabilitation.
The project understandably decided to amalgamate three of the original sub-components in the SAR and to
re-define soil conservation afforestation to include also conifer plantations and fuelwood coppice
plantations (oak planting and acom seeding). The SAR estimates for the original constituents of this newly
defined category amount to 26,700 ha, against which the project achieved 71,991 ha. This considerable
over-achievement reflects the fact that these activities were taking place on land which was: (i) relatively
distant from villages; and (ii) under the control of the MOF. Local people may have previously grazed
animals on the land used for afforestation. But they did not rely heavily on it and were content to have it
included in MC plans and to benefit from the employment afforded by the afforestation activities. The
situation was thus in contrast to that of oak coppice, discussed below. Although survival rates for newly
planted seedlings are reportedly 70% or higher, there is considerable variation in the quality of the planting
stock used, reflecting often low nursery standards. AGM has made limited progress towards using
improved seed. It has established a seed orchard of red pine. But much of the planting, including all that
of oak, is from seed collected indiscriminately by villagers.
Against an SAR estimate of 17,800 ha of oak coppice rehabilitation (cutting of degraded oak stands to
encourage coppicing), the project achieved finally completed an area of 2,240 ha. The explanation for this
lies partly in a relative unavailability of oak coppice in the particular MCs selected by the project. The
selection of MCs partly on the basis of the amount of eroded land they contained inevitably tended to
exclude oak coppice, which is typically associated with less eroded areas. There was alsc a degree of
social resistance. Local people depend on oak coppice for fuelwood and regard it in much the same light as
they do rangeland, as a common property resource. In this regard, they proved generally unwilling to have
the closure of oak coppice included in MC plans. A relatively minor institutional factor was that, because
oak coppice rehabilitation involves cutting trees, it is the responsibility of the MOF's General Directorate
- 7 -



of Forestry (OGM) as it was the case for cedar rehabilitation, rather than of the AGM which was
responsible for other forestry activities within the project and indeed for overall project coordination.
The area of forest rangeland treated, under the responsibility of MOF, was 19,282 ha and thus exceeded
the SAR estimate of 17,800 ha. Forest rangeland is generally remote from villages and at higher altitude
than the category of rangeland for which MARA was responsible. It is not subject to the same level of
uncertainty regarding ownership, boundaries and encroachment and there is little or no ambiguity about the
MOF's authority over it. Against this background and partly because of the employment afforded, the
local people were more willing to accept and actually to support the rehabilitation activities undertaken by
the MOF than those attempted by MARA. But there have been instances, notably in Sanliurfa and in the
Toros Mountains of Icel and Antalya, where the project has had to address issues associated with
transhumants' use of the high altitude rangeland for summer grazing. The project concluded that, in both
categories of rangeland, the most effective means of rehabilitation lay in simply closing the area to animals
for a period prior to the introduction of rotational grazing. The MOF had the power (which MARA did
not) to fence off areas of rangeland in order temporarily to prevent grazing. It is finally to be'reported that
farmers in Sanliurfa indicated that, despite the severe drought in some years, they did not migrate from the
area because, thanks to the project, the rangeland gave considerable support to their livestock in terms of
sufficient feed availability also in these years.
The forest rangeland treatments have included not only fencing but also erosion control measures such as
check dams and some limited infrastructure (mainly water troughs and dips) for animals. There appears to
have been some variation in the costliness of the techniques and materials used and, in some instances, a
degree of over-engineering.
The project planted 81 ha for the purpose of riverbank protection, against an SAR estimate of 70 ha. This
planting, on Treasury land, was done using poplar, Eleagnus and oak. The project also created two new
sub-components, namely cedar rehabilitation and participative plantations, for which there are therefore no
SAR estimates The rationale for the inclusion of cedar rehabilitation came when the project expanded from
its original three provinces, where cedar forest was rare or absent, into provinces where it was important,
notably Adana, Icel (Mersin) and Antalya. The project achieved 1,687 ha of cedar rehabilitation and 35 ha
of participative plantations.
Strengtheningfield services: This was achieved through training, some technical assistance, and the
upgrading of infrastructure at the field and central levels. There was a substantial overseas training
program for the project staff, administered by external consultants, under which 282 trainees, participated
in 34 study tours between 1995 and 2000. Eleven study tours were in the United States, eight were in
Israel and the rest were distributed between ten different countries. There were also three short term
overseas training courses in the United States and were attended by 20 project staff. Subject areas covered
mainly the technical aspects of watershed development and erosion control. Twelve staff received English
language training. Those who attended confirmed a high degree of satisfaction with the training provided.
Based on the identified needs, the project agencies provided training for their staff through programs
organized by TUGEM of MARA. The program built up slowly, from 2-6 truning events in each of the
years 1993 to 1997 to 16 in 1998, the year in which 30% of a total of 53 courses and workshops took
place. By the end of the project a total of 1,533 project staff had undergone local training. Thirty eight per
cent of the trainees were from the MOF, 47% from MARA and 15% from KHGM. The expansion of the
project from 3 to 11 provinces, combined with a considerable staff turnover and arising problems during
implementation, meant that there was a continuing and growing need for local training. The project
developed training notes that can be useful for both national and international stakeholders. Overall the
- 8-



quality of the training was quite good, although the program could have included more training on
extension methodology, and financial analysis.
Deficiencies in procurement experienced in the early years of the project were overcome starting from
1996, when procurement responsibility was decentralized away from the Central Procurement Committee
in the MOF and became the responsibility of each individual implementing agency. There were some
delays especially in the procurement of vehicles, adversely effecting performance; in some instances cases
tCe project had available to it some vehicles which existed already. The project decided against buying
same of the heavier earthmoving and ripping equipment budgeted for in the SAR, to be used by KHGM
and AGM. This resulted in significant savings in funds. These agencies instead relied upon subcontracting
the works.
4.2.2  Income-supportingActivities:
T'hese included measures to improve rainfed productivity for field and horticultural crops, assist with
small-scale irrigation, promote bee keeping and grafting of wild fruit species. At project completion, the
raajority of the agricultural activities have been completed as expected and in some cases have exceeded
SAR targets (Annex 1). Overall performance is considered satisfactory. Income supporting activities
were conditionally linked to the villagers adopting forestry treatments and improved range management
p ractices. MC planning emphasized the linkages between the income supporting activities supporting the
a doption of desirable resource management activities. In the majority of the MCs, costs of these activities
sid not exceed about one third of the total investment cost for the MC. The project staff focused on three
raajor groups in a community as identified through the FCPCPS process: (i) owners of large livestock
f locks who are using the rangelands; (ii) groups who are benefiting from oak coppice as fuelwood and
forage; and (iii) groups who are using marginal agricultural lands. In order to make behavioral change in
the use of these natural resources, the groups who are using these resources were given the opportunity to
shift to alternative income supporting activities. This being the principle, favoritism was avoided in
granting the project inputs.
laken as a whole, the rainfed horticultural treatments achieved an area of about 14,350 ha and so exceeded
the estimate made at appraisal of 11,862 ha. The project has combined two SAR sub-components into one.
'hese are rainfed horticulture and rainfed terrace agriculture. Against an SAR estimate for these of 5,616
ha, the project achieved 5,554 ha. Rainfed horticulture in gullies achieved 1,642 ha, against an SAR
estimate of 3,246 ha and suffered frorn farmers' understandable preference to concentrate on more familiar
types of land. In all three sub-components there were some difficulties in supplying the required quantity
End type of planting material. A popular crop combination was almond and grape, these being planted in
combination on terraced land, the almond (or other fruit tree such as cherry) on the terrace and the grape on
the terrace edge. There was also a small proportion of forage crops and cereals. The two sub-components
involving pistachio both performed well. About 1.2 million wild trees were grafted and this represents an
area of about 6,000 ha, or three times the SAR figure. For planted pistachio, actual and SAR figures were
comparable at approximately 1,000 ha. A total of 240,000 trees have been distributed by the project under
I he tree planting on field boundaries covering an area of about 200 ha or 60% of the SAR target.
In the earlier years of the project, there were problems regarding apiculture activities mainly due to the
overlapping and uncoordinated responsibilities of the related agencies, namely General Directorate of
I roduction & Development (TUGEM), General Directorate of Forest Village Relationship (ORKOY) and
I he Turkish Development Foundation (TKV), a private supplier. Colony losses occurred as a result of late
(delivery, insufficient basic and on-the-job training, mis-selection of beneficiaries. In 1997 a pnrtocol was
signed clearly defining the role and responsibilities of each agency, TUGEM, ORKOY and TKV and the
performance increased significantly. Against an SAR estimate of 1,620 beehives, the project has supplied
-9-



1,728. This sub-component has proved especially popular in the dry and relatively treeless province of
Sanliurfa, where crop production significantly failed as a result of severe drought and beekeeping
accounted for a very high proportion of the cash income of those engaged in it and its promotion by the
project represents real success in poverty alleviation.
The comparative baseline study shows significant advances in upgrading livestock in the project MCs.
Over the three year period, the percentage of cross-bred cows increased by 17%. Milk yields increased by
about 20% in both local and cross-bred animals. The project's direct contribution to the genetic
improvement of cattle was limited and its effect was more through the promotion of feed base rather than
from more direct intervention. A serious constraint to the intended artificial insemination of cows was the
relative remoteness of many of the project farms. The provincial animal health services were already fully
employed by the farmers in the lower-lying and more accessible parts of their provinces. A decision to
employ private veterinary expertise on a pilot scale was implemented in 1997 in one province, Malatya.
The remoteness of many of the project farms made it difficult for the private veterinary specialists to reach
them with the necessary punctuality. A low success rate of about 50% led to the discontinuation of
artificial insemination efforts. SAR proposals to use breeding bulls between groups of farmers (to obviate
the need for timely visits by veterinary specialists) were not implemented, owing to the difficulty of
managing such animals communally.
Small-scale irrigation was understandably the most popular single sub-component with farmers. The total
area treated was 12,368 ha, against an SAR estimate of 10,530 ha. This sub-component improved the
existing water holding capacity by building concrete ponds versus the existing earthen ponds by reducing
the water losses while improving the efficiency of conveyance by the provision of concrete canals as
opposed to earth canals. Furthermore, the employed technology allowed collection of water from sources
as small as 1 lit/second enhanced the capacity of the farmer to irrigate from sources which were previously
unused. The project supported only a few schemes with pumping, however, the pumping equipment was
financed totally by the farmers, i.e. in Kahramanmaras. The irrigation provided has permitted the
expanded cultivation of forage species, especially alfalfa, silage maize and a range of fruit trees, including
apricot (especially in Malatya), apple, peach and cherry.
4.2.3 Planning and Management:
The amount and nature of technical assistance used in the project differed from that anticipated at
appraisal. There was a substantial shift away from intemational towards local technical assistance.
International technical assistance was drawn upon only in 1995 and 1996 and amounted to 392 days, or
16% of the total anticipated. Total local technical assistance amounted to about six times the 39
person-months anticipated at appraisal. From 1997, each of the main implementing agencies were allowed
to select their own local consultants, the previous arrangement whereby AGM selected all consultants
having been found unsatisfactory for disciplines other than forestry.
Of the 6,000 person-days of local technical assistance, half was accounted for by two long-term
appointments related to monitoring and evaluation. Much of the rest was accounted for by the local
consultants in forestry, agriculture and irrigation who were employed up to 1997 to assist in MC planning,
related soil and water surveys. From its original design embracing 54 MCs in 3 provinces, the project
expanded in 1998 to include a further 18 MCs in 3 new provinces. In 1999, it expanded further, bringing
its overall scale to a total of 88 MCs in 11 provinces. During appraisal it was foreseen to select three MCs
per year in any one province, there were some instances which this was not achieved due to insufficient
and/or immature capacity of the provincial agencies and/or attitude of the MC communities, i.e. in Antalya
the community withdrew their agreement to project activities due to their perception of forestry activities.
In the initial years of the project, the one year period allowed for selection and planning is barely sufficient.
- 10-



7he Mid-Term Review in 1995 commented on the tight scheduling of planning and implementation and
iecommended a longer time frame. The project did not select any new MCs the following year (1996) to
catch up with the work. Despite the coming project completion date, agencies wanted to wante(d to
continue to select new MCs by The rapid expansion towards the end of the project placed some strain on
the capacity of the implementing agencies and left 37 MCs with work remaining to be completed from
GOT funding (regarding which the mission received assurances from the implementing agencies, as
discussed below).
The project provided farmer training for both men and women and its public awareness and community
1raining extended also to children. The project also promoted farmer to farmer contact between new and
old MCs. The effectiveness of the latter is partly demonstrated by the figures for the sowing of fodder
crops. The total pre-project area sown to fodder in the project MCs was about 1,100 ha. With the project,
Ihis rose to approximately 7,500 ha. But a further 3,000 ha was established by farmers not themselves
directly assisted by project staff. Their contribution to the total incremental area under fodder wvas nearly
30% over the life of the project. In total, the project organized 279 field days and 457 training courses for
'arming family members and through them directly reached 12,242 participants. This amounts to less than
the estimate at appraisal of 30,000 person-days of farmer training, a discrepancy which partly reflects the
slow start.
I ionitoring and evaluation was addressed by the employment, from 1997, of a specialist consultant who
first helped to design and then managed the PCSU's monitoring system. Earlier international technical
assistance in this area had proved ine'fective. The system functions extremely well in monitoring physical
and financial inputs to the project The system in its present form does not attempt to monitor outputs or
r esults, for example changes in crop yield, or variations in factors such as climate and streamflow. It
iherefore performs a more limited function than was envisaged at appraisal. MARA's Monitoring and
]-valuation Section, which is outside of the project, undertook the comparative baseline evaluation with
advice from TUGEM. This was based on interviews with farmers and compared information from
approximately 600 farms in 63 MCs from all provinces. The years compared were 1998 and 2001. While
it would have been preferable to have had an earlier initial baseline for those provinces covered by the
project prior to 1998, the exercise was a valuable one and presented much useful data.
'rhere is additional information on project results which has been collected by the participating government
bodies, especially TUGEM. Such inibormation is not generally available, nor is it available in E.nglish, and
could very usefully be made so. It should ideally be incorporated into the monitoring and evaluation
:;ystem, as was envisaged at appraisal.
Although the SAR allowed for the creation of a Geographic Information System (GIS) and mapping
i:apability (in Year 3), the project did not proceed with this. Instead it contracted in 1999 the Space
'rechnologies Department of the Turkish Scientific & Technology Research Organization (TUBITAK)
Marmara Research Centre, to undertake two comparative studies of two MCs of Kumludere and Hancayi
in Malatya. The years for which satellite imagery was compared were 1992 and 1998. The study showed
that, while the project activities initially reduced vegetation cover slightly, there is subsequently an increase
n the proportion of denser vegetation in these MCs. The comparison noted increases in the area under field
crops, orchards and vineyards. On the basis of the above, the performance under this component is
considered satisfactory.
4.2.4 Applied Research:
'Performance under this component is considered unsatisfactory. Except for the GIS work described
above (which was research into, rather than the routine application of, a particular methodology) and some
- 11 -



research just starting into fertilizers on rangeland (which will be too late to fall within the project), there
was little activity in this component. Certain of the research identified in the SAR, for example that on
aerial seeding and fertiliser application, was considered unsuitable in the light of the disappointing results
from comparable non-aerial treatments and of the particular local conditions. Other research, the need for
which was identified either at appraisal or from project experience, did not materialize. There was a
suggestion, for example, of a need for research into the root fungi (Mycorrhiza) associated with cedar, as it
was assumed that failures in cedar planting might be due to the absence of the fungi. Supervision missions
repeatedly drew attention to the lack of research in, for example rangeland treatments and sedimentation
rates. One limited justification for the lack of research under the project is that relevant research was
already being done elsewhere. The World Bank, for example, was supporting agricultural research and
extension in eastern Turkey through a separate project, approved in 1992. Also, the need for research was
questioned. But one major reason appears to be the difficulty of incorporating into the project activities
which would have to be done by organizations not already in the project's mainstream. There was
reportedly reluctance on the part of some research bodies to enter into contracts with AGM. A number of
potential research organizations are named in the SAR. The difficulty appears to have obtained even when
the appropriate research organization, for example in forestry, was a sister organization to one of the
implementing agencies.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
The project initiated innovative ways in the protection of the environrnent while helping rural people to
make a living. An exercise carried out with the provincial staff by questioning them about their perception
of project benefits included: (i) institutional benefits; (ii) social benefits; (iii) economic benefits; and (iv)
environmental benefits. The economic re-evaluation of the project is presented in details in Annex 7,
Appendix A. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) of AGM was able to collect data on the
performance of different activities as implemented during the project including: (i) soil conservation and
afforestation; (ii) oak coppice rehabilitation; (iii) rangeland rehabilitation; (iv) fallow reduction; (v)
agronomic package; (vi) rainfed horticulture; (vii) rainfed gully horticulture; (viii) pistachio grafting; (ix)
pistachio establishment; (x) irrigated horticulture; (xi) irrigated forage; (xii) small-scale irrigation; and
(xiii) beekeeping. Basic data regarding these activities are based on a "Baseline Survey" carried out by
both MOF and MARA during 1998-2001. Although it may still be argued that these activities are
somehow complementary each other (SAR approach), the availability of good related data as provided by
M&E particularly on area yields, production costs and investment costs, gave the ICR mission the
possibility to estimate the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole and, separately, for
each of the above activities. On the basis of the assumptions, summarized in Annex 3 and given in detail in
Annex 7, Appendix A, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole has been reassessed
atl6.8% in line with the estimate made at appraisal. The project activities, taken separately, are expected
to generate ERRs ranging from 18.4% to 32.9% for the agronomic package and gully horticulture,
respectively.
4.4 Financial rate of retirn:
At appraisal, financial benefits were only expressed in terms of average incremental income per family in
the project area. At completion, it was possible to estimate the impact of the project on family income that
would directly deriving from the activities supported by the project In general, farmers in the project area
have contributed to the investment programs with their own labor. The net annual incremental income is
estimated, on average, at US$270,000 per MC taking into account the expected aggregated benefits from
the various activities supported by the project. This is equivalent to about US$590/family, which is in line
with SAR estimates. While the increases in the net value of production are generally expected to range
from 28% (agronomic package) to 390% (rainfed horticulture), the gully horticulture and the irrigated
horticulture activities are expected to generate, at full development, values that are tenfold the related
- 12 -



without project levels. The beekeeping is to be considered as a new activity in the region. A kit of 20
be ehives, representing the average package given to farmers, is currently generating about US$5'20/year.
Details on expected net value of production at full development are given in Annex 7, Appendix A, Tables
8-15 for the activity under MARA responsibility and in Tables 16-18 for the soil conservation
alforestation, oak coppice rehabilitation and rangeland rehabilitation respectively.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
This has been manifested in two principle ways. The first concerns the institutional development which has
taken place within the three implementing agencies, which were exposed to new technologies and good
pr-actices in various fields including environmental survey and monitoring cultural heritage awareness and
community mobilization. They have developed the capacity to coordinate their activities and so deliver a
mrore effective service. They have also gained experience in communicating and collaborating with
firmers, and this marks an important shift in the relationship between government and the rural population
b)th in the project MCs and more widely. The second main impact on institutional development has been
al. village level. The capacity of farmers to collaborate with each other has been strengthened by their
awvareness of the advantages afforded by the project in the form of technology, infrastructure and the
ixaproved management and conservation of community land resources. The project thus successfully
intermediated knowledge and technology.
I he M&E Unit, well staffed, is now working satisfactoiily and will remain a sustainable asset of AGM. It
has gained the necessary capability to adequately follow, in the future, the implementation experience and
p -rformance of any similar project without the assistance of consultancy expertise. All project staff have
had access to updated information on costs and as well as on physical progress of field activities. The
quality of their progress reports during the last years of project implementation was very satisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implenmenting agency:
E:asically, most factors were within the control of both the Government and implementing agencies. In
n trospect, the main factor that affected negatively project implementation was the unexpected
nmacro-economic difficulties combined with restricted budget allocation during the early years of-the
project. However, the implementing agencies were able to cope efficiently with the greater than expected
rite of inflation experienced during the life of the project. Delays and unpredictable reductions in
cperational budgets were experiences in 1999 because of the provisional limitation of funds due to the
Marmara Earthquake Recovery Program. The latter was one of the main reasons to justify the extension of
tie closing date to 30 September 2001. A temporary factor in the early years of the project was the
uncertain security situation, which prevailed in 1994 which made more experienced contractors reluctant to
wY fork in the project area between 1993-94. Soon after, implementation took place in a stable social
environment
5.2 Factors generally subject to governnent control:
Complex GOT budgetary and disbursement approval procedures caused delays in World Bank
disbursement and GOT expenditure and thus in project implementation. Until 1998, disbursements were
slowed done due to the difficulties in using the Special Account for local expenditures. The Turkish Lira
(1L) payments had to be recorded in Government budget and transferred to the TL budget account in the
Central Bank before the payments were made. Therefore, it used to be taking almost 2 months until the
funds were reaching to the budget of the implementing agency. However, both the World Bankc Projects
I)epartment and the Public Finance Department of the Treasury made serious efforts to shorten this process
and developed a new procedure which opened the way for TL expenditures after 1998. In addition, there
was throughout much of the project life a shortage of GOT counterpart funding, the result of government
- 13 -



austerity measures. In some cases, even the amount of funds was satisfactory, the timing of the release of
funds hampered the implementation due to the seasonal nature of the interventions. Toward the end of the
project, there has been some improvements in timing.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project has suffered from staff turnover at provincial level and this has often meant the loss of trained
staff and the need to train replacements. Lack of capacity in one province (Sivas) were overcome by
placing the project activities there under the coordination of the project staff in a neighbouring one
(Malatya). The delays in procurement which were a feature of the early years of the project were overcome
by transferring responsibility for procurement to the Project Coordination & Support Unit (PCSU). Initial
inexperience in collaboration between the three main implementing agencies was successfully overcome and
the coordination that ensued was a key factor in project success. It was strong at headquarters and in most
but not all of the provinces. Where coordination at field level was weak, there were some instances in
which the intended sequence of activities was not adhered to. Within MARA, institutional arrangements at
provincial level, which do not mirror those at headquarters, were in some instances not clear and this led to
procedural delays.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project's original closing date was extended from 09/30/2000 to 09/30/2001. It is estimated that the
total project cost, excluding the GEF component, will reach US$78.3 million or 71% of appraisal estimate.
This could be attributed mainly to the impact of high inflation on project implementation was intimately
linked to exchange rate policies. In Turkey, where the exchange rate floats freely and fully adjusts,
inflation has reduced project costs in US$, as the cost of civil works rises more slowly than the general
price level, and the change from expensive mechanical to cheaper manual works as experienced in some
project components. The project, at appraisal, was to be financed 70.1% by the Bank and 29.9% by the
GOT; the final figures are 61.2% and 38.8% respectively. More detailed figures on project costs and
financing are presented in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is considered likely. The key to the project's sustainability lies in the fact that
its activities have been undertaken with the agreement and participation of villagers with a strong measure
of ownership by the primary stakeholders. The project has built on technology already familiar to villagers
and reacted positively to villagers' preferences and suggestions. The project has had a significant impact
on agriculture, horticulture and fodder production and, through these, on people's income. The
comparative baseline study shows an increase in average annual net income per farmer of 136% over the
three year period, from $1,197 to $2,827. A noteworthy feature of the change in income is that, while the
increase in maximum net income was 53%, that for minimum income was 86%. While increases in income
cannot be attributed exclusively to the project (and are partly related to off-farm activities) it is reasonable
to conclude that the project has reached the poorest and addressed rural poverty, the root cause of
environmental degradation. Notwithstanding that much of any increase in income to the poorest can be
attributed to wage labor, including that provided by project-sponsored forestry activities, the figures
provide strong evidence for sustainability.
A related indicator of sustainability is a reduction in the rate of outward seasonal migration from the MCs
in most of the project provinces. Overall the average reduction over three years was 7%, although there
was considerable variation between provinces. The original three provinces showed an average reduction
of 25%. Again, it is reasonable to assume that the project is partly responsible for a decline in outward
migration.
- 14 -



There was a cost sharing arrangement for the income supporting activities. The project provided the seed
and seedlings for newly introduced varieties but only for the first year. Farmers were responsible for
financing the tending and also provision of all inputs for the following years. The project's sustainability
will be strongest on private land and especially in those activities involving irrigation for which the cost
sharing was about 3% to 5%. Farmers have generally provided the cement for the irrigation ponds
constructed under the project. They were also responsible for the operation and maintenance which was
handled through the village administration. For bee keeping, villagers paid the value-added tax (VAT)
upfront which was about US$130. Sustainability is also likely on the non-forest rangeland which, in the
event, accounted for relatively little of the project effort. The combination of villagers' support and MOF
presence on forestland, ensures protection, from any set back of related activities initiated by the project.
Further, the sustainability of project activities under the responsibility of the MOF, is also assured by the
fact that the Ministry is able to cover some of the budgetary needs out of intemally generated funds.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The implementing agencies presented the mission with itemized budgets for 2002 relating to further work in
the project MCs. Together they amount to the equivalent of $3.6 million for the year. KHGM's proposed
program is for only four provinces (Gaziantep, Icel, Sanliurfa and Sivas), where there is engineering work
remaining, the cost of which is estimated at US$1.8 million. AGM's budget for all eleven project
provinces is $1.2 million and MARA's is $552,000. While these budgets have yet to be approved by GOT,
the mission views them as a strong commitment to the completion of work outstanding in the project. The
prospect of a follow-up project is under consideration by both the GOT and the World Banlc. Such a
project would greatly benefit from the implementation experience and lessons to be learned of the present
project in addressing land degradation in Anatolia.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal/post appraisal of
the project was satisfactory. The project was consistent with GOT and Bank development priorities and
the Bank's country assistance strategy. Relationships with govermment were excellent overll during
identification/preparation/appraisal and discussions were lively and professional centering on the most
appropriate coordinating mechanism among the concerned agencies involved with the project
implementation. As requested by the GOT the Bank was able to successfully arrange for Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) funds necessary to prepare the six 1993 MC plans with assistance of TA and to
finance study tours and the procurement of computers and office equipment. The technical approach
proposed for watershed management and conservation was sound and a good deal of flexibility as well as a
strong supervision program were worked into the project design. A post-appraisal mission was necessary
to review, with MOF, MARA and KHGM, the implementation program for the first year of the project in
order to avoid delays in project start-up and to agree on issues/actions to be discussed at negotiations
including the organizational set-up at provincial and central level, sufficient budget allocations to meet
GOT contribution and to agree on procurement arrangements.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance during supervision is considered to have been highly satisfactory. A total of
20 Bank supervision missions, including a MTR in October/November 1995, were carried out during the
course of the project to review project progress at intervals of six months. Appropriate skill mix and staff
continuity were always assured. Bank and project staff of MOF and MARA started to carr out a joint
work for the first time and maintained throughout the life of the project a constructive role forming, at the
- 15 -



same time a very harmonious team capable of taking advantage of the project flexibility when the project
scope was extended to cover a total of eleven provinces. In general, Bank staff have been persistent, firm
and clear in dialogue with the Government working to find constructive solutions to problems identified.
The QAG noted that supervision was highly attentive to development issues and kept the project focus in
the right places. Issues were well identified and their significance for the overall operation were presented
in supervision reports, rating the project "Best Practice" both in terms of quality at entry and quality of
supervision. The EAWRP was considered an example of the World Bank at its best.
7.3 Overall Bank peyfonnance:
The overall performance of the Bank is considered highly satisfactory. As indicated above, from the
design phase to implementation, the Bank staff developed a pioneer project Watershed Management using a
participatory approach, which proved to be the keynote of the successful implementation of the project
The increased role of the resident mission in supervision in Turkey is clearly a help in cushioning projects
from changes at the headquarters level.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. All the concerned entities closely
participated in and effectively contributed to Bank's work from identification to appraisal. The original
intention at design stage was to include 17 provinces in the project. The GOT responded flexibly as, for
logistical and other reasons, the number of provinces was reduced, first to ten and finally to three. The
Govermnent's decision to initiate first project activities in six out of an intended estimated total of 54 MCs
so as to avoid delay in the start of implementation, was very effective.
7.S Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was mixed. While the GOT in many
ways displayed strong commitment to the project, its complex financial procedures, combined with
austerity measures, served to delay and reduce expenditure and so to retard implementation. All three
implementing agencies were affected, KHGM most severely. Supervision missions also commented
adversely on the standard of auditing of the project accounts. The Govermment was able to provide the
necessary support to expand the project scope from the original three provinces as envisaged at appraisal to
the final target of eleven.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the principal implementing agencies, MOF, MARA and KIHGM during the
various stages of the project is rated satisfactory. The expansion of the project from 3 to 6 provinces in
1998 and from 6 to 11 provinces in 1999 was weUl taken care by the implementing agencies and, in
particular, their effective capacity to coordinate their activities during the life of the project was highly
appreciated by the WB. However, the number of women professional staff remained inadequate
throughout the life of the project, a deficiency repeatedly noted at supervision. MARA especially would
have benefited from having women staff in its extension activities.
AGM performed well both as the lead agency and as the project coordinating body, once it assumed the
overall responsibility for the PCSU. It also performed well at field level in the implementation of forestry
activities. In these it had the advantage of firstly employing good dedicated technical staff, secondly
operating on land free of serious pressure from viUlagers. MARA performed most effectively in its
activities with private farmers and its capability in extension grew in the light of project experience.
MARA's performance was less successful on rangeland, for which it lacked the technical and social
expertise and an appropriate legal framework within which to operate. KHGM started one year later than
- 16 -



the other two implementing agencies and this in turn adversely affected MARA's activities at the start of
the project. Thereafter its performance was satisfactory although, with the expansion towards the end of
the project, supervision mission missions noted the increasing cost of its activities and instances of
inadequate awareness within KHGM of the supporting nature of its role. KHGM suffered from being more
dependent than the other two implementing agencies on GOT finance.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
In view of the above, the overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   A participatory project cannot be target-driven: The lesson for project design is that the design
should focus on process rather than on physical targets, although, clearly, informed assumptions
have to be made for the purpose of estimating costs and returns. The design should allow for an
annual cycle of work starling from participatory MC planning. Problems should be solved with
clients, not for them. One specific issue arising from this approach which will need to be addressed
in any further project concerns the ratio between conservation and supporting income-generating
expenditure. Early involvement of key stakeholders in project design is essential in order to ensure
ownership and build commitment.
*   Major government ministries can collaborate effectively in delivering services asfield level:
Although not unique, the experience of this project provides an infrequent and invaluable lesson in
successful collaboration between three implementing agencies who had no previous history of
working together. But the project showed also that key elements in establishing such cooperation
(and that of villagers) are time and training and that flexibility is needed (for example in
procurement procedures) to allow each agency to contribute to its fullest extent. Experience
towards the end of the project, when the numbers of MCs and provinces were substantially
increased, tends to support Mid-Term Review concerns regarding the risks associated with too fast
a pace.
*   The project should operate in unambiguous legal conditions: There were legal uncertainties
surrounding the rangeland, especially the non-forest rangeland, and an inadequate legal framework
for MARA's participation in activities related to it. It was noted at appraisal that new rangeland
legislation was in process but this legislation was approved only in 1998. The associated cadastral
mapping will take many years. For any given piece of rangeland, the difficulties will remain until
all uncertainties are resolved. The World Bank should therefore request the GOT to give priority
in mapping to those provinces and areas where it is most needed for the implementation of World
Bank-assisted activities, specifically the anticipated second watershed rehabilitation project. The
design of this project should be realistic in any objectives relating to rangeland.
* Design and implementation should build on existing local technology and capacity: The
project's principal successes came from promoting and adapting existing local practice and the
project found relatively little need for technical assistance, especially that from overseas. The
project was implemented directly by local administrations, from the village up, and the project's
sensitive employment of its farmer-centred problem-census problem-solving (FCPGPS) approach
is, at its best, exemplary For any follow-up project.
* A project of this kind needs social and extension skUls: In both design and implementation, the
- 17 -



project exhibited technical strength but would have benefited from the provision of social and
extension skills. In particular the need for extension training should be considered when designing
further assistance to what is in large measure an extension project.
*   AU stakeholders need to be included: This an important lesson for any future project whose MCs
include high altitude rangeland used by trans-humants. Although these grazers are likely to have
their home bases distant from the project villages, it is essential that they be included in the
FCPCPS.
* Training should be timely and appropriate: In the present project training gathered momentum
relatively slowly and the Mid-Term Review noted that, three years into the project there were staff
who had not been trained and did not fully understand the project. Any follow-up project would
benefit from more timely training. Subject areas in which training for project staff will be needed
include procurement, disbursement, supervision and financial management.
*   The project design must ensure that the time allowedfor participatory planning and
implementation is (a) sufficient and (b) likely to be efficiently utilised: Partly related to the
question of social and extension expertise is the fact that the time (one year) allowed for MC
selection and planning in some instances proved inadequate for the purpose of ensuring the
necessary level of commitrnent by villagers. This problem was also related to coordination at field
level. It is noteworthy that the Mid-Term Review recommended increasing the time allowed for
implementation in any one MC from 3 years to 5 years and that the project desisted from selecting
any new MCs in 1996, the year after the review. The pace accelerated considerably thereafter,
with 28 MCs selected in a single year (1998). The design of the second project should address the
issue of scale and timing.
*   The project design should be such as tofacilitate the inclusion of all necessary sources of
expertise: The project design assumed, explicitly or otherwise, that technical or other support
would be forthcoming not only from the identified implementing agencies but also from certain of
their sister departments or from as yet unidentified sources such as research bodies. It proved
difficult or impossible to bring into the project expertise not specifically identified and budgeted for
at appraisal. The limited success on rangeland is attributed in part to a lack of research
information. The lesson is therefore is that more explicit and/or more flexible budgeting is
required.
*   Monitoring and evaluations should (a) be sustainable and (b) include data on outcomes:
While monitoring and evaluation were ably addressed by the employment of consultancy expertise,
its sustainability was not, and this should be an issue for the next project. Also important is the
nature of the monitoring and exercise, which currently focuses only on inputs. It is important that
it should also incorporate data and, ideally, specific and simple indicators, relevant in assessing
project outcomes. Such data as exist are currently kept by individual implementing agencies rather
than by the PCSU.
*   There were various technical lessons: Noteworthy among these are: (a) the technical and
cost-saving innovations developed (e.g. in Malatya) in soil conservation and irrigation technology;
(b) the difficulty of improving rangeland by means other than simple closure and protection; (c) the
merit of upgrading (grafting) naturally occurring fruit trees (where available) on rainfed land,
rather than planting new ones; and (d) the need in forestry to ensure good seedling quality: the
follow-up project could usefully include a nursery component and address the issue of genetic
- 18 -



quality also.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borr-ower/implementing agency:
Comments from Undersecretariat of Treasury:
*   Publicity among beneficiaries and general public: An important activity that was missing until late
years of the implementation has been the less than required level publicity of the project objectives,
coverage and accomplishments among both the current and potential beneficiaries and also
outsiders, including potential sponsors and other public and private agencies that are willing to
plan, implement or fund similar projects. This is important for both being able to secure funds if
required from such organizations and for demo effect utilization and sustainability purposes.
*   Project costing: Costs should be computed realistically so that actual disbursements and physical
perfornance that could in fact be at reasonable rates shall not be perceived by an outsider as too
low as compared to the loan disbursement ratios envisaged in PAD.
* Projects of this kind should take into consideration the investment program. budgetarv constraints.
if any. and internal procedures of the borrower: Since the Bank-financed project iunds are not
considered as additional resources to be treated outside the budget according to the Turkish state
accounting system, matching funds for the loan proceeds need to be provided besides the
counterpart fundings and internal taxes. This requirement needs to be taken into account unless
there is a change to the said system. This is not to be regarded as a problem or a temporary
practice but as a long established part of the government procedures.
At times of scarce funds, this can cause some difficulties but the reason we are carrying out
projects financed partly by the World Bank is that the intemal funds are not sufficient to do them
through internal budgets only, whereas the need for such projects will be there as long as there is a
need to improve the life standarts of especially the people living under harsh geographic and
financial conditions. There also is a need to improve project design, implementation and
coordination capacity of the government agencies responsible of leading the activities in related
sectors together with their ability to cooperate with inhabitants and non-governmental bodies both
during and post implementation periods.
Also the Bank-financed projects need to be designed such that they form a good blend with the
government's investment program and procedures in terms of objectives, priorities, locations,
means and timing of implementation. Such projects should not be seen as fancy and isolated
projects created out of scratch in a country with no prior setting of rules and regulations and no
procedural frameworks, but instead these all need to be studied and utilized during all phases of the
project for the best outcomes.
On the other hand, we should take into consideration the fact that Turkey suffered from an
economic crisis in 2001 which had far-reaching effects on all sectors of the economy. During those
times it becomes necessary to re-adjust the budgetary allocations for the implementing agencies and
this was a difficult process since measures had to be taken for the whole economy.
Nevertheless, the Turkish side achieved not to be taken over by the negative factors but instead
reached successfully the objectives set at the beginning. Therefore, the performance of the
- 19 -



implementing agencies should not be under-estimated. The best outcome of the project has been
that it has improved greatly the vision and business approaches of both the beneficiaries and the
agencies involved.
This is an indicator of the fact that such activities designed and coordinated with a project concept
have to be replicated wherever feasible in Turkey. A continuation of this effort, therefore, would
be very useful if based on the lessons learned.
The evaluation jointly made by MOF, MARA, KHGM and Treasury is given below:
I .   The objectives of the EAWRP are the rehabilitation of the degraded watersheds and raising of the
incomes of the rural communities. Until the preparation of the project in 1992, a number of
projects have been implemented separately and/or jointly by the agencies which are providing
services to the rural areas. However, none of those projects approached the natural resource
degradation and rural poverty holistically. Natural resource conservation and rehabilitation, and
poverty reduction has become two indispensable elements of rural development projects in recent
years. Today, the international donors are seeking this integrated approach in the proposed rural
development and natural resource conservation projects. These raising values have been
successfully integrated into the EAWP about a decade ago.
2.     The EAWP, also adopted two concepts; participation of rual conmmunities and sustainability.
These concepts were not only envisaged by the project but also achieved.
3.     The Project started with an approach that was in harmony both with the Bank's and the Turkish
Govermment's rural development policy and strategies. At the preparation and implementation
period, it was a participatory project. At the implementation stage, it exhibited a flexible
approach, open to revisions by maintaining the development objectives. It was also a project
continuously supervised, monitored and periodically evaluated.
Performance of the Bank
4.     The Bank was successful in pursuing its strategies from the first contact and subsequently guided
the client accordingly. The implementing agencies were the central and provincial agencies of the
three Ministries namely; Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, and
General Directorate of Rural Services. The project had a substantial risk by being implemented
with a number of agencies which had no previous experience in working together in the same area
and had a complex administrative structure. The Bank was successful in mitigating this risk by
acting as a catalyst and motivating the project staff to work around the common goals.
5.     The Bank helped the client to create a momentum and all through the project life made substantial
efforts to maintain the gained momentum by emphasizing the importance of the approach of the
Project for rural Turkey, and its potential as a model.
6.     The Bank, provided a comfortable environment for the implementing agencies in terms of flow of
funds during both preparation and implementation stages.
7.     The Bank was also keen in supervising and monitoring the Project. After the task management
responsibility was transferred to the Bank's field office, continuous supervision was provided. In
addition, at least two times a year, formal supervision missions were conducted . Field supervision
- 20 -



tours were made together in the sense that all agencies participated reviewing the others progress.
Frequent joint meetings organized and hosted by the Country Office between formal supervision
missions to discuss technical and as well as administrative problems further strengthened the team
spirit. At the field superv/isions, half of the time was allocated to listening to and instigating
dialogue between the MC community and the project staff about the Project approach and
interventions.
8.     The Bank gave special emphasis to the capacity building both for the technical staff and rural
communities. The Bank encouraged the agencies to conduct technical training programs, field
study tours, farner study tours (exchange of infornation between communities of the new and the
old project MCs), lessons learned workshops.
9.     Despite all the positive aspects underlined above, there were also some negative sides in working
with the Bank. Particularly in the first years of the Project, frequent changes of task managers and
team members, and insufficient understanding of the project approach on the mission members'
side created some communication problem between the client and the Bank. The fBank's lengthy
procedures and bureauciacy was another difficulty that was faced during the project life.
10.    The field supervision of the project was found time consuming and physically exhaustive due to
the: (i) wide geographical distribution of the project sites; (ii) MCs being in the remote areas; (iii)
rough terrain; and (iv) a number of multi-disciplinary activities. Therefore, two-week field
supervision missions need to be extended and more frequent.
11.    The Bank's performance was rated satisfactory in terms of flow of funds and supervision. The
agencies' confidence in the Bank was increased due to the Bank's overall approach, commitment,
dynamism in supervising the project and determinism.
Performance of the Governmenat
12.    Preparation stage: The contribution of the agencies to the preparation of the project was limited
mainly due to the following reasons: (i) integration of natural resource rehabilitation and rural
poverty was a new approach to the agencies; (ii) the agencies involvement in the preparation was
limited since the preparation was contracted to a consulting company; (iii) MOF had limited
experience in working with local communities despite its technical expertise; (iv) MARA used to
concentrate on low lands and resource rich areas and paid little attention to MCs/high altitudes and
resource poor farmers; (v) KHGM had not been developing water resources less than 5 It/second
and working in rough terrains and carrying out limited terrace construction and the agency's
experience was limited in participation. Therefore, we rated the performance of the central and
field level agencies as marginally satisfactory during the preparation period.
13.   Implementation stage: State Planning Organization (SPO) has not been involved in
supervision/monitoring of the project activities and therefore, failed to provide necessary budget
allocations particularly for KHGM resulting in implementation delays in some years leading to
weakened the confidence of the local communities in government agencies.
14.    The World Bank Project's Department of Treasury, although paid particular attention to the
project progress and visited several MCs during implementation, could not join the supervision
teams for systematic field monitoring.
- 21 -



15.    Despite the difficulties and bottlenecks which affected the project implemnentation from time to
time, the project has achieved its objectives. The monitoring data indicates this.
Project Impact
The following evaluation has been made jointly by the provincial agencies.
16.    Social impacts:
* Reduced tendency in rural out migration as a result of increased rural income.
*   Increased awareness about better living conditions and nutrition and willingness to apply.
*   Increased awareness about natural resource degradation and adoption of environmentally
friendly production techniques.
*   Improved community-state relationship and community's voice in works performed.
*   Increased confidence in state.
*   Improved ownership of the investments and renewed attachment to the land.
*   Voluntary involvement in project activities.
* Increased awareness in collaboration.
*   Demanding services from agencies without an intermediary.
*   Weakening of the opponent groups in rehabilitation and conservation of the natural resources
and strengthening of the supporters.
* Positive overall change in the traditional community.
17.   Institutional impacts:
*   Increased tendency in providing better services as a result of strengthened institutional
infrastructure.
* Improved skills in using office equipment and improved performance in reporting, presentation
and monitoring.
*   Improved inter-agency collaboration and improved understanding about services provided.
*   Improved vertical and horizontal communication within an agency.
*   Created awareness about monitoring of the performance of the other project agencies.
*   Better provision of services as a result of interactive, integrated and planned work.
*   Increased ownership of work done and created competition among agencies and project staff
in providing quality services.
*   Increased professional satisfaction and willingness for self development.
*   Increased professional success and self confidence.
*   Reduced institutional chauvinism.
* Change in approaching to local problems, increased tendency for decentralization.
*   Change in the way of managing tasks, adoption of cost efficient methods.
*   Putting more emphasis to the work done rather than the individuals and/or agencies.
* Improved skills in maldng decisions at the local level.
*   Taking actions based on the technical and social priorities instead of political priorities.
* Demanding budget allocations based on the planning of the work needed rather than creating
work to get more allocations.
*   Adoption of holistic approach to the problem identification and solution finding.
* Improved understanding of natural resource degradation, rehabilitation and rural poverty.
* Better understanding of collaboration among agencies in addressing natural resource
rehabilitation and rural poverty.
- 22 -



*   Change in approach to erosion control, better understanding of the soil degradation on
agricultural land.
*   Conceptual agreement in addressing natural resource degradation, rehabilitation and
conservation among agencies.
18.    Enviromnental Impact:
*   Reduced risk in floods and land slides.
* Reduced soil degradation and biodiversity loss.
*   Reduced pressure on forests and rangelands.
*   Increased landscape value.
*   Improved enviromnent for wildlife.
*   Improved access to clean and continuous water.
*   Increased natural resource productivity.
* Increased fertility and productivity of farmland.
19.    Economic Imrpact:
*   Increased employment.
*   Increased productivity of natural resources.
*   Increased crop and livestock productivity.
*   Increased income as a result of decreased production costs.
*   Increased land value.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Output Indicators
Output Description                             Projected in         Actual
SAR (1993)          Latest Estimate
Unit
1. FOREST LAND (MOF)
(i)  Soil conservation afforestation
(a) Soil conservation afforestation           ha             10,000)
(b) Conifer plantations                       ha             4,900)            71,991
(c) Fuelwood coppice plantations              ha             11,800)
Sub-total                               ha            26,700             71,991
(ii) Oak coppice rehabilitation                    ha             17,800             2,240
(iii) Rangeland rehabilitation                     ha             17,800            19,282
(iv) Riverbank protection (gallery plantations)    ha              70                 81
(v)  Cedar rehabilitation                          ha          Not in SAR            1,687
(vi) Participative plantations                     ha           Not in SAR            35
Total                                   ha             62,370            95,316
2. RANGELAND (MARA)
(i)  Rangeland management                          ha            58,650              1,320
(ii) Range management and fertiliser               ha             30,500              234
(iii) Range management, fertiliser and seed        ha             20,000              364
(iv) Pilot aerial fertiliser application           ha             5,000                0
(v)  Pilot aerial fertiliser and seed application  ha             2,000                0
(vi) Demonstrations                                ha              162                464
Total                                   ha            116,312             2,382
3. ARABLE LAND (MARA)                                                  , _
(i)  Agronomic packages                            ha             11,667             7,886
(ii) Fallow reduction/forage production            ha             25,960            20,800
(iii) Demonstrations                               ha              540               1,124
Total                                   ha             38,167             29,810
4. SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES (MARA)
(i)  Rainfed horticulture and conservation         ha             1.124)             5,554
(ii) Rainfed terrace agriculture                   ha             4,492)
(iii) Rainfed gully horgiculture                   ha             3,246              1,642
(iv) Rainfed pistachio grufting                    ha             2;,000             6,000
(v)  Rainfed pistachio establishmnent              ha             1,000              1,149
Total rainfed                           ha             11,762             14,345
(vi) Irrigated horficultur and conservation        ha             2,574              3,310
(vii) Irrigated forage                             ha             7,898              1,903
Total irrigated                         ha             10,472             5,213
Total (MARA)                            ha             22,334             19,558
(ix) Beekeeping (I kit= 20 beehives)               kit            1,620              1,728
(x)  Tree planting on field boundaries         no. of trees      1,200,000          240,000
ha              341                200
6. SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES (KHGM)
(xi) Small-scale irrigation
with terrace construction                  ha)            10,530              1,203
without terrace construction               ha)                               11,165
Total small-scale irrigation                           10,530             12,368
(xii) Rainfed terraces                             ha             5,616             I1,440
Total (KHGM)                            ha             16,146             13,808
(xiii) Riverbank protection                       Ian               0                 40
- 24 -



Outcome/Impact Indicators
Outcome/Impact                     Indicators
Description                       Projected in SAR                   Actual
1) Capacity of local communities to  Participating approach to strengthen  Project activities have been undertaken
manage their own natural resources.  farmers' planning and implementing  and implemented with the agreement
capacity                          and participation of village people and
_______________________________  _________________project beneficiaries.
2) Annual incremental income per   US$ 525/family                    US$587/family. Based on the total
family in each of the participating                                  project incremental value of productive
villages in the MC.                                                  (US$23,500,000) for 40,000 families.
3) Cost sharing arrangement for   Individual and community share of the  Farmers in the project area have
watershed rehabilitation.         rehabilitation efforts included labor for  actively participated in the project
establishment but mainly contributed  activities and have mainly contributed
in the form of O&M of facilities and  with their own labor and cement for
improvement created.               irrigation facilities. In the case of
Kuzucak, farmers formed a
cooperative to hire a private company
to seek technical and economic advice
and set up an efficient cost sharing
arrangement.
4) Income generating activities.   GOT and beneficiaries to share the  Completed as expected with strong
investment cost while O&M cost     measure of ownership by the primary
would be covered fully by the     stakeholders.
beneficiaries.
5) Restoration of sustainable natural  The reforestation component expected  The project initiated innovating in the
resources.                        to focus on indigenous species, in  protection and rehabilitation of the
particular native oak. The GEF     environment while helping rural
in-situgene conservation sub-project  people to increase incomes. The GEIE
expected to promote preservation of  in situ conversation of genetic diversity
wild forest and crop species.      subproject was evaluated separately in
the ICR dated April 30, 1999.
6) Microcatchments (no.)          54                                 87
7) Microcatchments area (ha)      400,000                            520,000
8) Beneficiary families (no.)     38,333                             40,000
9) Beekeeping farmers (no.)        80                                86
10) Beehives (no.)                1,620                              1,728
11) International TA (p/in)       97                                 15
12) Local TA (p/m)                39                                 234
13) Ponds (no.)                  .270                                1,260                  =
14) Irrigation canals (km)        594                                1,069
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ milion equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate    Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million   US$ million
1. Strengthening Agency Capacity                           5.88          1.54      26
2. Watershed Rehabilitation'                               58.66        43.74      75
3. Supporting Activities                                   22.82        32.84     144
4. Applied Research                                       0.80           0.21      26
Total Baseline Cost                                        88.16        78.33
Physical Contingencies                                     8.58          0.00
Price Contingencies                                        13.05         0.00
Total Project Costs                       109.79        78.33
Total Financing Required                   109.79       7833
Project Costs by Procurement Arran menents (Apprai al Estimate) (US$ million equiv lent)
Expenditure Category            Procurement                  Total
Method 1/
IBC          NCB         Other        NBF          Cost
1. Civil Works                                   22.5        34.82/                 57.3
(13.4)      (20.8)                 (34.2)
2. Plant and Equipment              8.3                       0.9                    9.2
(7.3)                     (0.8)                 (8.1)
3. Apiculture Kist                               4.8                                    4.8
(2.4)                                 (2.4)
4. Materials                                                  19.9                  19.9
(17.5)                (17.5)
5. Vehicles                         5.0                                              5.0  X
(4.)                                            (4.4)
6. Technical Assistance and Training                          6.0                    6.0
(6.0)                 (6.0)
7. PPF                                                        0.8                    0.8
.___________  ___________   (0.8)                 (0.8)
8. Incremental Operating Cost                    27.3         6.9                    6.9
.____________    (15.9)        (3.4)                 (3.4)
Sub-total                           13.3                      69.2                  109.8
(11.7)                    (49.3)               (77.0)+
GEF Sub-project                     1.9          27.3         3.7                    5.7
1.7         (15.9)       (3.4)                  (5.1)
Grand Total                         15.2                      72.9                  115.5
(13.4)                    (52.7)                (82.1)
- 26 -



1/ Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts financed by IBRD and GET.
2/ Force account.
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Actua/Latest Estimate (US$ million e uivalent)
Expendittire Category              Procurement                     Total
Method I/
IBC           NCB          Other          NBF           Cost
]. Civil Works                                       27.72        30.62/                   58.32
(14.34)       (15.98)                  (30.32)
2. Plant and Equipment             _
3. Apiculture Kist                                   2.55            _                         2.55
(2.55)                                    (2.55)
4. Materials                                         0.18           7.67               .    7.85
_______   _ (0.14)   (6.76)                  (6.90)
5. Vehicles                            3.78                                                 3.78
(3.36)                   .                           (3.36)
6. Technical Assistance and Training    2.2          0.86          0.27                     3.33
_   (2.2)         (0.96)       (0.27)                   (3.33)
7. PPF                                 0.44                        0.08                     0.52
(0.44)                      (0.08)                   (0.52)
8. Incremental Operating Cost                                       1.98                       1.98
__________________________ _   _(0.99)           (0.99)
Sub-total                              6.42          31.31         40.60                    78.33
(6.00)        (17.80)       (24.08)                 (47.97)
GEF Sub-project                          -             -             -
Grand Total                            6.42          31.31         40.60                    78.33
(6.00)        (17.89)       (24.08)                 (47.97)
Project Financing by Disbursement Categories (US$ Million EquIvalent)
: -    .       .'  rwritim.ril      --> F*zlq     itist  __.we"a,tihl
.__ _ _         __ _     _  _ _t                                       F
Civil Works  34.2  23.1  0.0   57.3 30.32  28.0  0.0  58.32   89  121.0  00  101.0
Goods     30.1   4.0   0.0   34.1  10.26  1.36  0.0  11.63  34   34.0  0 0  34.0
Agriculture Klts  2.4  2.4  0.0  4 8  2.55  0.00   0.0  2.55   106   0 0  0.0 53 0
echnical Assistan  6.0  0.0  0.0  6.0  3.33  0.00   0.0   3.33  55    0.0  0.0  55.0
Training                                                             I
PPF       0 8   0 0   0 0   0.8   0.52  0.00   0.0  0.52   65    0.0  0.0  65.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
Incremental  3.4   3.4   0 0   6.8   0.99  0.99   0 0  1.98   29   29.0  0 0  29.0
Operating Cost                              _
Sub-Total   76.9  32.9  0.0  109.8 48 0   30 4   0.0  78.3    378  184.0  0.0 337.
- 27 -



I
t



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Quantifiable Benefits
Annual incremental production benefits attributable to the project at full development are expected to
include, as far as the activities implemented under MARA responsibility are concerned, some :3,500 tons
pulses, 34,500 tons of mixed fruits, about 6,000 tons of pistachio, 9,200 tons of grapes, 3,500 tons of
vegetables, 25,000 tons of vetch/sainfoin, 17,000 tons of fodder (dry matter) and about 700 tons of honey
(Annex 7, Appendix A, Tables 8 to J15). Similarly, other project benefits that would derive at full
development from the activities under MOF responsibility include 220,000 m3 of wood/year, 780 tons/year
of leaves/branches, 2,600 m3/year of firewood and 10,800 tons/year of fodder (Annex 7, Appendix A,
Tables 16 - 18).
Farm Income
The net annual incremental income is estimated, on average, at US$270,000 per MC taking into account
the expected aggregated benefits from the various activities supported by the project. This is equivalent to
about US$590/family, which is in line with SAR estimates. While the increases in the net value of
production are generally expected to range from 28% (agronomic package) to 390% (rainfed horticulture),
the gully horticulture and the irrigated horticulture activities are expected to generate, at full development,
values that are tenfold the related without project levels. The beekeeping is to be considered as a new
activity in the region. A kit of 20 beehives, representing the average package given to farmers, is currently
generating about US$520/year. Details on expected net value of production at full development are given
in Annex 7, Appendix A, Tables 8-15 for the activity under MARA responsibility and in Tables 16-18 for
the soil conservation afforestation, oak coppice rehabilitation and rangeland rehabilitation respectively.
Economic Re-Evaluation
The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a whole and for each of the activities
indicated above. Actual investment costs, expressed in constant December 2001 prices, are given in Table
3. As the analysis has been carried out in US$, the official exchange rate of US$1 = TL1,330,000 has
been used. Total investment costs have been included in the analysis and in estimating the specific ERR for
each project activity, the cost of the supporting activities and demonstrations, estimated at US$10.2
million, has been allocated proportionally in relation to the respective area actually developed. In view of
the impact of price reforms in Turkey, key distortions in the foreign exchange rate, wage rates and product
prices are considered minimal. The Turkish Lira is freely convertible and there are no major trade
restrictions on agricultural goods to deflect market prices widely from border economic values. The
financial prices, being very close to the economic prices, were therefore considered appropriate for the
economic analysis (Annex 7, Appendix A). The value of the incremental production of the project has been
estimated taking into account the following output prices expressed in economic terms.
- 29 -



Economic Prices
Wheat                        150.4 US$/ton
Firewood                       16.5 US$/m3
Commercial Timber             27.1 US$/m3
Leaves/Branches               23.0 US$/ton
Fodder (dry matter)           75.0 US$/ton
Fruits:
mixed                      0.37 US$/kg
pistachio                   1.35 US$/kg
grapes                     0.30 US$/kg
Honey                          2.25 US$/kg
On the basis of the above, the ERR for the project as a whole has been reassessed at 16.8%. The ERRs for
the various project activities under MARA range from 18.4 % for the agronomic package subcomponent to
as high as 32.9% for gully horticulture. Similarly, activities under the implementation responsibility of the
MOF, would generate ERR ranging from 9.5% for the oak coppice rehabilitation to 20.3% for the
rangeland rehabilitation. Detailed calculations on the ERRs are given in Annex 7, Appendix A and are
summarized in the table below.
Results of the Economic Analysis
Project Activities                Economic Rate of
Return (%)
SAR              ICR
MARA
Fallow Reduction                   n.a.             21.7
Agronomic Package                  n.a.             18.4
Rainfed Agriculture                n.a.             23.5
Gully Horticulture                 n.a.             32.9
Pistachio Grafting                 n.a.             23.4
Pistachio Establishment            n.a.             28.9
Irrigated Horticulture             n.a.             25.0
Irrigated Forage                   n.a.             22.2
Small-Scale Irrigation             n.a.             18.9
Apiculture                         n.a.             31.4
MOF
Soil Conservation & Afforestation  n.a.             11.4
Oak Coppice Rehabilitation         n.a.             9.5
Rangeland Rehabilitation           n.a.             20.3
Total Project                       17              16.8
The above ERRs estimates indicate that the project as a whole, as well as the individual project activities,
remain, at project completion, satisfactory, although the ERR for the soils conservation and afforestation
and oak coppice rehabilitation may be considered marginal. However, as at appraisal, the analysis is still
considered conservative since it does not take into account other benefits due to reduced run-off or resource
- 30 -



conservation such as the likely increase in the economic life of dams in the project area through reduced
;edimentation. Furthermore, the analysis does not take into account likely falls in productivity -due to
,ieclining soils fertility in the absence of the project.
.Sensitivity Analysis:
At project completion, a meaningfil sensitivity test is carried out on expected future benefits only. If the
project incremental benefits are reduced by 10% and 20%, the ERR drops to 15.1% and 13.40/,
respectively, indicating the robustness of the project to this possible risk.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparatdon
03-04/1991                 6   E, A, RN, WM, EC, F
11/1991                    5   E, A, NA, NA, NA
Appraisal/Negotiation
01-02/1992                 6   E, A, NA, NA, NA NA
06-07/1992                 7   E, A
11/1992                    6   E, A
01/25-28/1993
Supervision
05/1993                    3   E, A, F                          S             S
11-12/1993                 3   E, A, IE                         S             S
05-06/1994                 2   IE, A                            u             s
10-11/1994                 4   A, IE, E, BS                     U             S
05/1995                    4   A, E, F, BS                      S             S
10-11/1995 (MTR)           4   F, A, IE, BS                     S             S
05/1996                    4   TM, A, BS, OP                     S            s
10/1996                    4   TM, A, IE, OP                    S             S
05-06/1997                 5   A, TM, IE, F, OP                  S            S
07/1997                    2   A, OP                             S            S
11-12/1997                 5   A, IE, F, OP, E                   S            S
04/1998                     4  A, IE, F, OP                      S            S
07/1998                    2   A, OP                             S            S
11/1998                    3   A, IE, F                         S             S
05/1999                    5   A, OP, IE, F, L                   S            S
10/1999                    4   A, OP, IE, F                     S             S
05/2000                                                          S            S
11/2000                                                          S            S
04/2001                    2   A, IE                             S            S
09/2001                    5   A, IE, IE, F, OP                  S            S
ICR
12/2001                    2    E, NR                            S            S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                   na                   243,301 *
Supervision                             na                    581,000
ICR                                     na                     36,000
Total
- 32 -



*From inception to Board presentation.
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Oi Macro policies                    O H OSUOM ON * NA
Oi Sector Policies                   O H *SUOM ON O NA
Ol Physical                          O H *SUOM ON O NA
OI Financial                         O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Institutional Development          0 H * SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
D Environmental                      O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction           O H *SUOM O N O NA
Li Gender                      OH   OSUOM     ON    ONA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N * NA
L Public sector management           0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
U Supervision                                       *HS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS Os OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       0 U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU    O HU
O] Overall                                          OHS OS       O u   O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. I 1294-TU, dated Februar 9, 1993
*   Loan Agreement dated March 25, 1993
*   Regional and Departmental Files
* Mid-term Review
*   Information submitted by the Borrowers
- 36 -












IMAG8NG
Report No.:          24181
Type:      ICR



